 in his hand his Portesse still he bare, That much was worne, but therein little redd For of devotion he had little care, Still drowned in sleepe, and most of his daies dedd Scarse could he once uphold his heavie hedd, To looken whether it were night or day. May seeme that wayne was very evil le@dd, When such an one had guiding of the way, That knew not whether right he went, or else astray. From worldly cares himselfe he did esloyne, And greatly shunned manly exercise From everie work he chalenged essoyne, @@For contemplation sake yet otherwise His life he led in lawlesse riotise, By which he grew to grievous malady For in his lustlesse limbs, through evill guise, A shaking fever raignd continually. Such one was Idlenesse, first of this company. And by his side rode loathsome GLUTTONY, Deformed creature, on a filthie swyne. His belly was upblowne with luxury, And eke with fatnesse swollen were his eyne And like a Crane his necke was long and fyne, With which he swallowed up excessive feast, For want whereof poore people oft did pyne And all the way, most like a brutish beast, He spued up his gorge, that all did him @deteast. In greene vine leaves he was right fitly clad, For other clothes he could not weare for heate And on his head an yvie girland had, From under which fast trickled downe the sweat. Still, as he rode he somewhat still did eat, And in his hand did beare a bouzing ca
 IN LONDON, 1802. O FRIEND, I know not which way I must look For comfort, being, as I am, opprest To think that now our life is only drest For show mean handiwork of craftsman, cook, Or groom !@-@We must run glittering like a brook In the open sunshine, or we are unblest The wealthiest man among us is the best No grandeur now in Nature or in book Delights us. Rapine, avarice, expense, This is idolatry and these we adore Plain living and high thinking are no more The homely beauty of the good old cause Is gone our peace, our faithful innocence, And pure religion breathing household laws. -@Wordsworth. CCXCVII. COMPOSED UPON WESTMINSTER BRIDGE, SEPTEMBER 3, 1802. EARTH has not any thing to show more fair Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty This city now doth like a garment wear The beauty of the morning silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields and to the sky, All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour valley, rock, or hill Ne'er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep ! The river glideth at his own sweet will Dear God ! the very houses seem asleep And all that mighty heart is lying still ! -@
 -@Printed Published, by @H. SUCH, 177, late 123 , Union-street, Boro',-@S.E and Sold by W. Watts at 83 White Cross-st,  wandered alone to breathe the fresh air, In a gloomy myrtle shade I met a fair maid, As she sat weeping and tearing her hair. Said I, blooming fair one, why dost thou mourn, Is your true love gone where he'll never return ? Your sad lamentations my feelings does burn, I think you're a daughter of Erin-go-br@agh. She appeared much alarmed when I first approached her, The tears from her eyes in torrents did flow, Her cheeks that I once saw as red as the roses, Now they are decaying and clouded with woe. Young man she replied, poor Erin's my mother, If I'm not mistaken, dear youth, you're my brother, Come mingle your tears and we'll comfort each other, And sing for the wrongs of Erin-go-bragh. You asked me the cause of my disconsolation, My tongue is scarce able the same to relate, @I once had a linnet, the pride of all nations, But death has him taken and sad is my fate Sweet were the notes when he sung thro' the bowers, With his lovely green wings spreading over the flowers But here I am doomed to spend these dull hours, For the loss of O'Connell to Erin-go-bragh. In Munster he sung, through Cork and Tipperary, And many more places too tedious to name, My linnet he hover'@d so brisk and so airy, The fowlers to take him played many a scheme To the plains of Kildare we marched off so glorious, With our harmonious band and our linnet before us, For to hear his sweet notes, they were soft melodious For he sung nought but freedom to Erin-go-bragh. He sung in Kilkenny a tune that was pleasing, His notes they were charming, both lofty and shrill, Through Wexford and Wicklow he held monster meetings, And sweetly he sung on Tara's old hill He sung in Athlone it being the middle station, In hopes his notes would be heard through the nation, All his trials and afflictions he bore with great patience, And all for the love of Erin-go-bragh. BEAUTIFUL BELLS. B EAUTIFUL, beautiful, fairy-like bells, How sweetly ye float o'er the wild flow'ry dells, There's a voice in each note of your eloquent chime, Which recals to the lone heart some happier time. Beautiful, beautiful, through the still vale, Borne on the wings of the soft balmy gale, Like music from fairyland hovering round, Soft echoes repeating the magical sound. Beautiful, beautiful, fairy-like bells, How sweetly ye float down the wild flow'ry dells, In murmuring cadences dying away, Chiming farewell to the fast fleeting day. Beautiful, beautiful, telling of rest, Breathing of peace to the wanderer's breast, Waking the past with a tender regret, Till we weep on the clay that we fain would forget. Beautiful, beautiful, lyre-like bells, How many a sad tale your melody tells ! Yet to earth's weary pilgrims ye whisper of bliss, Of a world that is fairer and brighter than this. Beautiful, beautiful, fairy-like, c. O'Connell's green Linnet. Continued. In Roscommon he sung and his notes were admired, The ladies of Dublin all loved his sweet voice, In Longford my linnet he shall be rewarded, For of all other songsters they made him their choi. In famed Mullingar and Mayo he's recorded, In Limerick and Gal@way he's lively regarded, I grieve for his loss, but I hope he's rewarded, For seeking the rights of Erin-go-bragh. She fell at my feet in a state of distraction, I done my endeavours her spirits to cheer, Said I, blooming fair maid, what makes you f@@-hearted ? For Ireland will flourish in this present year, Although your sweet linnet now lies at Glasnoven, His spirit has fled to the mansion of Heaven, Where a glorious reward for his toil he is given, For the love that he bore to @@ Erin-go-bragh.agh. 360.
 and gyue them a sowse in the necke that theyr hedes kyssed the ground in so moche that euery body cursed hym for his wycked dedes doynge. And the duke his fader seynge his myscheuous dyspocysyon and cursed lyfe of his sone, he was so angry with hym-selfe, that he wyshed hymself many tymes dede and out of the worlde. And the duchese in lykewyse was gretly moued and muche sorowefull by cawse of the mysche-uous lyfe of her sone, saynge in this wyse, My lord our sone is nowe of sufficient age and able to bere armes, wherefore me thynke it were best that ye made hym knyght if than he wolde remembre thordre of knyght-hode whereby he myght leve his wyckedness. The duke was here withall content. And Robert had at that tyme but eyghtene yere of age. How Robert the Deuyll was made knyght by the duke his fader. THIS duke assembled upon a hye feast of Whitsontyde, all his barons and nobles of his lande, and the next of his kyn and frendes, in the presence of whome he called his sone to hym saynge thus, Herke my sone Robert, and take hede what I shall tell you, it is so that by thaduyce of my counsell and good frendes, I am now aduysed to make you a knyght, to thentent that ye with other knyghtes to haunte chevalrye and knyghtes condycions, to thentente that ye shall leve and forsake your uyces and moost hatfull lyf. Robert herynge this, answered his fader, I shall do your comandme
 St. Kitt's. The New World undoubtedly contributed the word cannibal to European languages@-@and the Caribbees are undoubt-edly the original Cannibal Islands. But to return to my story. I have not forgotten the name of the strip of seething brine that writhes and tumbles, tormented by tide and wind, between the cliffs of Dover and the rocks of Cape Gris-nez -@I have crossed it many times and oft, in imminent danger of losing all my personal effects, except such as happened to be fastened securely to the outside of my suffering body, or locked in my portmanteau but I have to confess that, just as Fluellen had forgotten the name of the river in far-away Macedon if, indeed, he ever knew it , so it is not in my prains what is the name of the peaceful sea, if name it has, that lies between Cachacrou Head, Dominica, and Cape St. Martin, Martinique, sparkling in the sunlight, glistening in the star-light, day after da@y, night after night, throughout unending summer. But whatever be the name of the strait or channel across which the Barracouta bravely bore us, the passage over the blue deep from Do-minica to Martinique was delightful, and beyond all gainsaying enjoy-able, being made in ease and comfort. Between Cape St. Martin, its northwest extremity, and Cape d'Enf@er, the j@umping-off place at the tip-end of the island on its south-eastern confines, Martinique is thirty-five miles in length, varying in width from seven to sixteen miles, being broadest between Cape Enrage on the leeward and the Peninsula Caravelle on the windward shore. Its area is about three hundred and eighty square miles, that is to say, 245,000 acres in all, of which a little over 80,000 acres are well-watered plains and fertile hill-sides under cultivation. There is nearly an equal amount of forest or savannah, while the remainder of the land, either because of its ruggedness, or because it is covered with impenetrable jungle, lies fallow year after year. Some of this fallow land was at one time cleared of trees and broken by the plough in later days it has been permitted to remain untilled, and in many places is once more overgrown by shrubs and ferns, or by a vigorous seco
 retirement, where the Attic bird Trills her thick-warbled notes the summer long There flowery hill, Hymettus, with the sound Of bees' industrious murmur, oft invites To studious musing there Ilissus rolls His whispering stream. Within the walls then view The schools of ancient sages@-@his who bred Great Alexander to subdue the world Lyceum there, and painted Stoa next, There thou shalt hear and learn the secret power Of harmony, in tones and numbers hit By voice or hand, and various-measured verse, AEolian charms and Dorian lyric odes, And his who gave them breath, but higher sung, Blind Melesigenes, thence Homer called, Whose poem Phoebus challenged for his own. Thence what the lofty grave tragedians taught In chorus or iambic, teachers best Of moral prudence, with delight received In brief sententious precepts, while they treat Of fate and chance, and change in human life, High actions and high passions best describing. -@Paradise Regained, iv. 236-266. CLXXXIII. SAMSON ON HIS BLINDNESS. I MUST not quarrel with the will Of highest dispensation, which herein Haply had ends above my reach to know. Suffices that to me strength is my bane And proves the source of all my miseries, So many, and so huge, that each apart Would ask a life to wail but, chief of all, O loss of sight, of thee I most complain
 those who pause on some delightful way, Though bent on pleasant pilgrimage, we stood Looking upon the evening, and the flood Which lay between the city and the shore, Paved with the image of the sky. The hoar And airy Alps, towards the north, appeared, Thro' mist, a heaven-sustaining bulwark, reared Between the east and west and half the sky Was roofed with clouds of rich emblazonry, Dark purple at the zenith, which still grew Down the steep west into a wondrous hue Brighter than burning gold, even to the rent Where the swift sun yet paused in his descent Among the many-folded hills. They were Those famous Euganean hills, which bear, As seen from Lido through the harbour piles, The likeness of a clump of peaked isles@-And then, as if the earth and sea had been Dissolved into one lake of fire, were seen Those mountains towering, as from waves of flame, Around the vaporous sun, from which there came The inmost purple spirit of light, and made Their very peaks transparent. -@Shelley. CCCL. ODE TO AUTUMN. SEASON of mists and mellow fruitfulness ! Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun Conspiring with him how to load and bless With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run To bend with apples the mossed cottage-trees, And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells With a sweet kernel to set budding mor
 Collar hold of a handful and grasp 'em tight, And swear for once to show your spite But if they promise you they wont bite, Quickly put them all to flight, Jump into bed pop out the light, And you'll snore like blazes all the night. So Billy Nuts, c. Sheeps heads my next lines are upon, And about one I've a history, And if you'll but listen for awhile, I'll tell you all this mystery, The lines are good, and so you'll say Because I'm never daunted My next are upon a house That people say is haunted. Spoken.@-@See @yon lone house uninhabited stand there, Where once there dwelt a happy pai@@@@@r@@ I was their only son and heir, They taught me with a parents' care, Of bad company to beware, But I heeded not this parents' care, But with other chaps would curse and swear, And late home at night I wo'd  Till one night when the thunder rolled thro'  the lightning lit the earth with its glare, I reached home in dark despair, Burst open the door and fell over a chair. When lo ! upon the ground a skull lay there, It felt so clammy cold and bare, I seized it and rushed into the open air. And it was a mutten's head I do declare. So Billy Nuts, c. So I'll conclude and make an end,  Poet But people say I him outcuts, And very soon I'll show it. I've lines on times and other things, But few have any Primer, Tho' a poor Bard I study hard, I'm Jimmy Jumps the Rhymer. Chorus.@-@So Billy Nuts, I him outcuts, He's prim, but I am primer In every line I him outshine, I'm Jimmy Jumps the Rhymer, I'm Jimmy Jumps, c. Spoken.@-@Yes, Ladies and Gentlemen, you be-hold standing before you the original Jimmy Jumps no son of Milton, or brother to Robert Burns, but a distant relation to the immortal Shakespere. I'm a Poet, and 'tis fit you should know it, I can write lines on any thing, my lines are real lines, not par-ticular hard lines, or lines like other Poets write, which are only wrote to get people into lines, but fine lines, and so you shall see. My first lines are lines upon a sweetheart, after the style of Milton @only altered a little by the Author@-@myself. Poetry Spoken.@-@I once a sweetheart had, by Jove, A pretty dark eyed gal, It was with her I loved to rove, By the side of the canal @cana@l Her father was a tough old boy, As round as any keg Her mother she had but one eye, And she'd a wooden leg. One night 'twas dark to the house I went, To see her was my intent But her mother pop'd in the way, And ax'd me what I meant I told her I her daughter lov'd, At which she bid me fly, To be used thus I thought 'twas best, To lay me down and die. To the Regent's canal I made my way, To leap in I was about, But a second thought assured me, I should feel much better out. So home I went, a letter sent, Next day to say I thought her A faithless one, and she'd me undone, The wooden leg'd woman's daughter. So Billy Nuts, c. Now Billy Nuts writes on sheeps' heads And lines on bugs and fleas too, And I've some lines that excel his, And I'm certain that they'll please you@ If on summer night the bugs you've got, Of course you can't endure 'em, Without getting into a passion hot, I've a receipt for to cure 'em. Lines on Bugs.-@Manchester Ones. Spoken. Stay down stairs till you've made all things right When you're ready to get to bed lay hold of a light, Stalk up stairs, but stay on the first flight, Then with carving knife you'll be all right Then when the bugs they heave in sight,  I go, I'll tell you my woe, About Miss Jemima Clover. She swore she loved, Yet false it proved 'Tis as true as I'm a Poet And how she acted unto me. 'Tis fit that you should know it. Lines on a false wife. Written with great feeling@@ by the unfortunate Jimmy Jumps. Spoken.-@'Twas in the middle of October 1852, When this false woman I met by Kew 'Tis true every word what I tell you, At me a sheepish eye she threw, And she says Oh Jimmy, I must have you, So I consented in a day or two So we went to Church and sat in a Pew, Till the Parson came, he tipped with@ Q, And fastened us together as tight as glue. But months had scarcely passed a few, When this false woman turned out a shrew And to my bed she proved untrue 'Twas then I in a passion flew, This weapon from my breast I drew, And the first opportunity I tell to you, I'll plunge it into a dish of Irish stew. @@@@So Billy  -@Printed and Published by H. Such, 123, Union Street, Borough@@
 praise a matron what would hurt her more ? But thou art proof against them and, indeed, Above the ill fortune of them, or the need. I therefore will begin Soul of the age ! The applause, delight, the wonder of our stage ! My Shakspeare, rise ! I will not lodge thee by Chaucer, or Spenser, or bid Beaumont lie A little further, to make thee a room Thou art a monument without a tomb, And art alive still while thy book doth live, And we have wits to read, and praise to give. That I not mix thee so my brain excuses,@-I mean with great, but disproportioned Muses For if I thought my judgment were of years, I should commit thee surely with thy peers, And tell how far thou didst our Lyly outshine, Or sporting Kyd, or Marlowe's mighty line. And though thou hadst small Latin and less Greek, From thence to honour thee, I would not seek For names but call forth thundering AEschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles to us, Pacuvius,† Accius,† him of Cordova ‡ dead, To life again, to hear thy buskin tread, And shake a stage or, when thy socks were on, Leave thee alone for a comparison Of all that insolent Greece or haughty Rome Sent forth, or since did from their ashes come. Triumph, my Britain, thou hast one to show, To whom all scenes of Europe homage owe. In allusion to an elegy on Shakspere, by W. Basse, beginning@-' Renownèd Spenser, lie a thought more nigh To learned Chaucer and rare Beaumont, lie A little nearer Spenser, to make room For Shakspeare in your threefold, fourfold tomb '. † Roman tragic poets of the second century B.C. ‡ Senec
 if a kiss prove unchaste, Then is true love quite disgraced. Though love be sweet, learn this of me, No sweet love but honesty. -@Greene. 1592. From The Lady Fitzwalter's Nightingale. @@@@@XXXIII. TIMES GO BY TURNS. THE loppèd tree in time may grow again Most naked plants renew both fruit and flower The sorest wight may find release of pain, The driest soil suck in some moistening shower Times go by turns and chances change by course, From foul to fair, from better hap to worse. The sea of Fortune doth not ever flow, She draws her favours to the lowest ebb Her time hath equal times to come and go, Her loom doth weave the fine and coarsest web No joy so great but runneth to an end, No hap so hard but may in fine amend. Not always fall of leaf nor ever spring, No endless night yet not eternal day The saddest birds a season find to sing, The roughest storm a calm may soon allay Thus with succeeding turns God tempereth all, That man may hope to rise yet fear to fall. A chance may win that by mischance was lost The well that holds no great, takes little fish In some things all, in all things none are crossed, Few all they need, but none have all they wish Unmeddled joys here to no man befall, Who least hath some, who most hath never all. 1592. -Southwe
 in Bridgetown in the lead, with all my very good friends following close behind. What we did when we reached an upper chamber, spacious, high, and lighted by wide windows@-@all opened, to admit the balmy trade-wind@-@and had taken seats in a hall with tables set about with easy-chairs where the clinking of glasses fell pleas-antly upon the ear amid the sound of popping corks, the gurgling and fizzing of flagons and round-bellied or tapering bottles where there was a grateful, appetizing odor of cooking how I made merry with my friends and became as one of them, ate and drank, and talked of Bimshire and the Afghan boundary, of England, of the islands I had seen, and of those I was to see how I learned of the excellence and health@fulness of sugar-cane, of the unwholesome qualities of beetroot what questions I asked concerning my friends' affairs, what inquiries concerning my own land and people I had to answer@-@all these things I have no space nor time to tell. I can only leave it to the imag-ination of my readers to picture the scene, to guess the tenth of all that was said and done@. Only this I must record, bearing my testi-mony with gladness, and fearing not to be gainsaid, I found the Bar-badians graduates in the science of hospitality, masters of the art of entertaining, genial and sociable by instinct, self-possessed, courteous, and polite, as a result of early training in argument, fortiter in re, in listening and asking questions, suaviter in modo. Having but little in the way of public amusements to distract them, passing their lives far from the madding crowd, dependent on their own ingenuity to devise means of recreation, having much leisure time while the crops are growing, seeing the same people day by day@, it will not be surprising if the Barbadians often find the days long and their sur-roundings monotonous. Therefore, being quick-witted and well edu-cated, accounting nothing that concerns mankind of little or no interest to them, these islanders read with avidity a wonderful number of books, read deliberately, critically, and with discrimination. Having abundant opportunity for consideration, and taking counsel with them-selves and one another, their thoughts crystallize into well-digest
 KUBLA KHAN A VISION IN A DREAM. IN Xanadu did Kubla Khan A stately pleasure-dome decree, Where Alph, the sacred river, ran Through caverns measureless to man Down to a sunless sea. So twice five miles of fertile ground With walls and towers were girdled round And there were gardens bright with sinuous rills Where blossomed many an incense-bearing tree And here were forests ancient as the hills, Enfolding sunny spots of greenery. But oh ! that deep romantic chasm which slanted Down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover@! A savage place ! as holy and enchanted As e'er beneath a waning moon was haunted By woman wailing for her demon-lover ! And from this chasm, with ceaseless turmoil seething, As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing, A mighty fountain momently was forced Amid whose swift half-intermitted burst Huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail, Or chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail And 'mid these dancing rocks at once and ever It flung up momently the sacred river. Five miles meandering with a mazy  author fell asleep in his chair at the moment he was reading the following from Purchas' Pilgrims ' Here the Khan Kubla com-manded a palace to be built, and a stately garden thereunto, and thus ten miles of fertile ground were enclosed with a wall@'. 
 its leaves and root infuse Heaven's sunshine, Heaven's dews. 'Tis a type, and 'tis a pledge, Of a crowning privilege. Careful as that lily flower, This maid must keep her precious dower Live a sainted Maid, or die Martyr to virginity. Virtuous poor one, sleep, sleep on, And waking find your labour's done. -@Lamb. CCCLXIX. LOVE, HOPE, AND PATIENCE IN EDUCATION. O'ER wayward childhood wouldst thou hold firm rule, And sun thee in the light of happy faces Love, Hope, and Patience, these must be thy graces, And in thine own heart let them first keep school. For, as old Atlas on his broad neck places Heaven's starry globe, and there sustains it -@so Do these upbear the little world below Of Education@-@Patience, Love, and Hope. Methinks, I see them grouped in seemly show, The straitened arms upraised, the palms aslope, And robes that touching as adown they flow, Distinctly blend, like snow embossed in snow. O part them never ! If Hope prostrate lie, Love too will sink and die. But Love is subtle, and doth proof derive From her own life that Hope is yet alive And, bending o'er with soul-transfusing eyes, And the soft murmurs of the mother dove, Woos back the fleeting spirit, and half supplies -Thus love repays to Hope what Hope first gave to Love. Yet haply there will come a weary day, When, over-tasked at lengt
 are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers, For this, for every thing, we are out of tune It moves us not.@-@Great God ! I'd rather be A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn,@-So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. -@Wo@rds@ TO SLEEP.† A FLOCK of sheep that leisurely pass by, One after one the sound of rain, and bees Murmuring the fall of rivers, winds and sea, Smooth fields, white sheets of water, and pure sky -I've thought of all by turns, and still I lie Sleepless and soon the small birds' melodies Must hear, first uttered from my orchard trees, And the first cuckoo's melancholy cry. Even thus last night, and two nights more I lay, And could not win thee, Sleep, by any stealth So do not let me wear to-night away Without thee what is all the morning's wealth ? Come, blessèd barrier between day and day, Dear mother of fresh thoughts and joyous health !  Paradise Lost, iii. 604. Proteus represented the everlasting changes yet ever recurring sameness of the sea. † In the house of Morpheus the sounds to ' lull to slumber soft@' were -' A trickling stream from high rock tumbling down, And ever drizzling rain upon the loft, Mixed with a murmuring wind much like the sound Of swarming bees'. -@The Faery Queene, I. i. 41. 
 joys, the partner of his sorrows, his better half and, evidently, all his treasures@-@she was also his business partner, the drummer for the concern, and the sign-board to attract custom to his dispensary. This she did, not only by exciting the curiosity of passers-by, who paused to stare at her, all bedight and bejewelled as she sat at his front door, but also by calling aloud to wayfarers to turn aside and be cured of all the ills their flesh was heir to. That the cooly AEsculapius did a roaring trade for he was a puller of teeth as well as apothecary and physician there could be no reasonable doubt, seeing that his spouse had upon her person the tangible evidence saved from many and liberal fees. A cooly man, no matter what may be his voca-tion or his money-winning power, no sooner is able to put by some-thing for a rainy day than he hies him unto an artificer, cunning to work in silver and gold, and causes to be beaten into bangles, gew-gaws, chains, bracelets, or other forms of female ornaments, any spare change he may have in his belt or in the folds of his turban@-@to the end that he may encircle the toes or neck, adorn the ankles or thumbs, or other parts of his wife's or daughter's, or, if he be a bachelor, sister's or sweetheart's body@-@thus endowing her practically, although it may be temporarily, with all and sundry his worldly goods and earthly possessions. She thus becomes his savings bank and trust company and he regards her in the light of an investment@-@non-interest-bearing it is true, nevertheless subject to draft at sight, doubtless very pre-cious to him, and handy to have about the house. Conspicuous among her other embellishments this Hindu doctress had about her neck@-@hanging down before her, to her girdle@-@a neck-lace made by joining together, by means of strong silver links, not less than three dozen ten-dollar gold pieces. From time to time she toyed significantly with these coins, shaking them as if desirous of calling attention to the great value of her husband's bank-account, to say nothing of the implicit faith displayed by him in intrusting her with the custody of his hard-earned savings. We were duly impressed by this display of financial solidity as, doubtless, were the Calif@o
 Rico to the mouth of the Orinoco River, as well as the islands stretching along the north coast of Venezuela, are called the Windward Islands, or Lesser Antilles. The English apply the name West Indies to all the islands which separate the Atlantic Ocean from the Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, but, not content to let other nations keep a separate name to themselves, divide the group known to the rest of mankind as the Windward Islands into two lesser groups, naming the islands between Porto Rico and Martinique, the Leeward and those between Martin-ique and the mouth of the Orinoco, the Windward Islands. The archi-pelago thus subdivided by the British for their own convenience is also known as the Caribbean Islands. By this denomination we Ameri-cans designate the series of islands which to the north includes the Virgin Islands and to the south terminates with Trinidad. We also call the entire group the Windward Islands. The most northerly of the Caribbean Islands lie about fifteen hun-dred and fifty miles in a southeasterly direction from New York therefore a vessel bound to St. Christopher the destination of the Barracouta enters the Gulf Stream nearly one hundred and fifty miles from Sandy Hook, crosses this mighty current diagonally, pass-ing midway between Charleston, S. C., and Hamilton, the capital of the Bermuda Islands the distance between these two seaports is, ap-proximately, eight hundred miles , and enters the tropics latitude 23° fully one thousand miles to the east of the most southerly point of Florida, that is to say, in about the longitude of Halifax, Nova Scotia. On the afternoon of the sixth day of our voyage land was in sight, showing faintly against the southern sky, more to be guessed at than distinctly seen. At first we could barely make out the dim outline of the mountain@-peaks of St. Martin. Not until an hour later, although lying many miles nearer to the ship, did the level, serpentine coast-line of Anguilla come into view then we discovered, directly ahead of us, the barren chalk-cliffs of Sombrero faintly showing their sno
 inhabitants to the square mile. Coming nearer home, West-chester County, New York, with a territory three times as large, sup-ports only four-sevenths as many people as are packed upon this thronged, man-ridden Caribbee and, finally, if the Empire State were as thickly settled as is Barbados, the Governor of that common-wealth would be called upon to administer the affairs of no less than sixty millions of New Yorkers. Notwithstanding Barbados is so closely packed that her citizens would seem to be justified, if they saw fit to do so, in hanging up, upon the face of cliffs confronting the sea and at all eligible landing-places, notices to the effect that there was standing-room only on their island, each successive census shows an increase in the sum total, as is proven by the following figures taken from government reports. In 1861 the number of Barbadians was 152,727 in 1871, 162,042 in 1881, 171,860. Assuming that the average rate of increase noted for the twenty years above given has been maintained during the past five years, there are to-day no less than 175,000 persons, black and white, upon the island. Of this number less than nine per cent. 15,600 are creoles of European descent, while the remaining 90 per cent. say, 159,000 are of pure African or mixed blood. It is a significant fact that dur-ing the decade 1871 to 1881, when the white population decreased more than three per cent. 506 , the black and colored races in-creased more than eight per. cent. 11,324 . I leave it to statisti-cians who delight in elaborate calculations, to foretell the precise year when, if the ratio of loss and gain in the census of the two races re-mains unchanged, the genus Man, species Caucasian, will finally dis-appear from Barbados. Is it foreordained that the descendants of the race once held in bondage shall, in the fulness of time, occupy the land of their taskmasters ? O year of Jubilee ! What wonder that the better class of negroes of Barbados, being compelled by circumstances to lead an active and industrious life, dili-gently care for themselves, provide for their hungry little ones, and so, gaining in self-respect, are proud to put on the appearance of prospe
V. ODE TO A NIGHTINGALE.CCCLIV. ODE TO A NIGHTINGALE. MY heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk, Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk @Tis not through envy of thy happy lot, But being too happy in thy happiness,@-That thou, light-winged Dryad of the trees, In some melodious plot Of beechen green, and shadows numberless, Singest of summer in full-throated ease. Oh ! for a draught of vintage, that hath been Cooled a long age in the deep-delved earth, Tasting of Flora and the country green, Dance, and Provencal song, and sun-burnt mirth ! Oh ! for a beaker full of the warm South, Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene, With beaded bubbles winking at the brim, And purple-stained mouth That I might drink, and leave the world unseen, And with thee fade away into the forest dim Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget What thou among the leaves hast never known, The weariness, the fever, and the fret Here, where men sit and hear each other groan Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs, Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin and dies Where but to think is to be full of sorrow And leaden-eyed despairs Where Beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes, Or new Love pine at them beyond to-morro
 thee, who, mindful of the unhonoured Dead, Dost in these lines their artless tale relate If chance, by lonely contemplation led, Some kindred spirit shall inquire thy fate, Haply some hoary-headed swain may say, ' Oft have we seen him at the peep of dawn Brushing with hasty steps the dews away To meet the sun upon the upland lawn ' There at the foot of yonder nodding beech, That wreathes its old fantastic roots so high, His listless length at noon-tide would he stretch, And pore upon the brook that babbles by. ' Hard by yon wood, now smiling as in scorn, Mutt'ring his wayward fancies he would rove † Now drooping, woeful wan, like one forlorn, Or crazed with care, or crossed in hopeless love. ' One morn I missed him on the customed hill, Along the heath and near his fav'rite tree Another came nor yet beside the rill, Nor up the lawn, nor at the wood was he ' The next with dirges due in sad array @@@@Slow through the church-way path we saw  the original MS. the following stanza occurs after line 100 -' Him have we seen the greenwood side along, While o'er the heath we hied, our labours done, Oft as the woodlark piped her farewell song, With wistful eyes pursue the setting sun '. † In the MSS. it is ' would he ' but the text here following is that in Gray's edition of his poems published in 1768. Note that ' wind ' line 2 and ' Awaits ' line 35 are the correct reading
 Remember March, the Ides of March re-member ! Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake? What villain touched his body, that did stab, And not for justice ? What, shall one of us, That struck the foremost man of all this world, But for supporting robbers, shall we now Contaminate our fingers with base bribes, And sell the mighty space of our large honours, For so much trash as may be grasped thus ?@-I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon, Than such a Roman. Cas. Brutus, bait not me, I'll not endure it you forget yourself, To hedge me in I am a soldier, I, Older in practice, abler than yourself To make conditions. Bru. Go to you are not, Cassius. Cas. I am. Bru. I say, you are not. Cas. Urge me no more, I shall forget myself Have mind upon your health, tempt me no farther. Bru. Away, slight man ! Cas. Is't possible ? Bru. Hear me, for I will speak. Must I give way and room to your rash choler ? Shall I be frighted when a madman stares@? Cas. O ye gods ! ye gods ! must I endure all this ? Bru. All this ! ay, more. Fret till your proud heart break Go, show your slaves how choleric you are, And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge ? Must I observe you ? must I stand and crouch Under your testy humour ? b@y the gods, You shall digest the venom of your spleen, Though it do split you for, from this day fort
 the maples hang out the first red cautionary signals foretelling frost and foul weather. One night of frost, such as with us would serve to strike down the morning-glories and dahlias, or cause the shining golden-rods to bronze and wither away, would utterly destroy every growing thing in this West Indian garden, every palm and vine, all the fruits and flowers that here, all the year round, show so rich and luxuriant. We remained with our new-found friends, wandering about their estate, enjoying every moment of our stay, until after five o'clock tea was served then, just before sunset, started down the mountain-side, and after a drive of a mile reached the landing-place, were ferried off to our floating hotel, and reported our return to the officer in charge of the Barracouta. During the evening our ship's company received a numerous and notable addition, in the persons of certain delegates from Antigua, Dominica, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Barbados, who had been to St. Kitt's to attend a convention at which the commercial relations of the Caribbean Islands with the United States were in part the subject of discussion, as I was informed by one of the gentlemen who had repre-sented his island in this Caribbean parliament. These members of Her Majesty's Government arrived on board singly and in groups, some of them accompanied by their wives and daughters when all had come, the Barracouta could afford barely enough accommodation for all our guests. I say our guests, for, be it remembered, I have ex-plained how we regular Barracoutans@-@the through passengers@-@looked upon the ship as our private steam-yacht and so, having thus put our-selves in the place of hosts, were bound by all the laws of hospitality to entertain all visitors whomsoever in a manner becoming their rank and dignity. We found the new arrivals to be an uncommonly@ inter-esting, entertaining, and jolly lot of people, disposed to be heartily satisfied with everything and everybody therefore, bearing in grate-ful remembrance the almost embarrassing hospitality with which the Kittefonians had greeted us, we bestirred ourselves in the vain attem
 rose ! whose hue, angry and brave, Bids the rash gazer wipe his eye Thy root is ever in its grave, And thou must die. Sweet spring ! full of sweet days and roses A box where sweets compacted lie Thy music shows ye have your closes, And all must die. Only a sweet and virtuous soul, Like seasoned timber, never gives But, though the whole world turn to coal, Then chiefly lives. -@Herbert. CXXIV. WISDOM AND KNOWLEDGE. THE moral poets nor unaptly feign That, by lame Vulcan's help, the pregnant brain Of sovereign Jove brought forth, and at that birth Was born Minerva, lady of the earth. O strange divinity ! but sung by rote, Sweet is the tune, but in a wilder note. The moral says, all Wisdom that is given To hood-winked mortals, first proceeds from heaven Truth's error, Wisdom's but wise insolence, And light's but darkness, not derived from thence Wisdom's a strain transcends morality, No virtue's absent, Wisdom being by. Virtue by constant practice is acquired, This this by sweat unpurchased is inspired The masterpiece of Knowledge is to know But what is good from what is good to show, Cf. the lines on Knowledge and Wisdom, quoted in book from Cowper's Task, book v
 now it is an angel's song, That makes the heavens be mute. It ceased yet still the sails made on A pleasant noise till noon, A noise like of a hidden brook In the leafy month of June, That to the sleeping woods all night Singeth a quiet tune. -@Coleridge. CCLXXXI. THE HOLLY TREE. O READER ! hast thou ever stood to see The Holly Tree ? The eye that contemplates it well perceives Its glossy leaves, Ordered by an intelligence so wise, As might confound the atheist's sophistries. Below, a circling fence, its leaves are seen Wrinkled and keen No grazing cattle through their prickly round Can reach to wound But, as they grow where nothing is to fear, Smooth and unarmed the pointless leaves appear. I love to view these things with curious eyes, And moralize And in this wisdom of the Holly Tree Can emblems see, Wherewith perchance to make a pleasant rhyme, One which may profit in the after-time. Thus, though abroad perchance I might appear Harsh and austere To those, who on my leisure would intrude, Reserved and rude,
 the grand, symmetrical cone of Nevis, rising from the seas beyond a narrow strait, stands out bold and clear against the sky, making a landscape of such surpassing beauty that it would be impossible to sail fifteen hundred miles, or, for that matter, any number of miles from Sandy Hook in any direction, and make a fairer landfall than the harbor of Basseterre. Long before sunrise I had been awakened by a perfect babel of voices, and my first appearance on deck was the signal for a storm of shouts and cries from a multitude of boatmen in a fleet of small boats surrounding the steamer. There were stevedores and long-shoremen, fruit-sellers and washerwomen, venders of knick-knacks, flowers, shells, and coral, geological, and botanical specimens all the congregation of traffickers howled at me, gesticulating frantically, as each and everyone besought, nay@, commanded, me and my fellow-ob-servers of the riotous scene to buy their wares, deliver up our raiment to be washed, or to take passage on their craft. The boatmen screamed out the names of their boats and their own names, they jostled their little vessels together in a fierce contest to approach near-est to the side of the ship or to bring their boats closest to the foot of the companion-ladder. They threatened one another with terrible cries and frantic gestures. From moment to moment we expected to see a dozen or score of them tumble overboard. At times it seemed as if riot and bloodshed were inevitable indeed, as if a riot had already broken out. The noise and con@fusion were more deafening and astounding than that created by cabmen at a railroad depôt at home in New York, at times equalling the din and disorder of our Stock Ex-change during a tight money market or a corner in stocks. I happened to step to the side of the vessel for the purpose of bargaining for some fruit that had attracted my attention and for which my teeth watered I was received with a stunning chorus by the entire flotilla. High above the general tumult and explosion of noise soared such fortissimi fragments as- Mary Jane's awaiting fo' you, dear massa. Mary Jane, be it o
 around her magic cell, Exulting, trembling, raging, fainting, Possessed beyond the Muse's painting. By turns they felt the glowing mind Disturbed, delighted, raised, refined Till once, 'tis said, when all were fired, Filled with fury, rapt, inspired, From the supporting myrtles round They snatched her instruments of sound And, as they oft had heard apart Sweet lessons of her forceful art, Each, for Madness ruled the hour, Would prove his own expressive power. First Fear his hand, its skill to try, Amid the chords bewildered laid, And back recoiled, he knew not why, E'en at the sound himself had made. Next Anger rushed his eyes on fire, In lightnings owned his secret stings In one rude clash he struck the lyre, And swept with hurried hand the strings. With woeful measures wan Despair@-Low sullen sounds his grief beguiled A solemn, strange and mingled air, 'Twas sad by fits, by starts 'twas wild. But thou, O Hope, with eyes so fair, What was thy delighted measure ? Still it whispered promised pleasure, And bade the lovely scenes at distance hail ! Still would her touch the strain prolong, And from the rocks, the woods, the vale, She called on Echo still through all the song And, where her sweetest theme she chos
 you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter, When you are waspish. Cas. Is it come to this ? Bru. You say you are a better soldier Let it appear so make your vaunting true, And it shall please me well for mine own part, I shall be glad to learn of noble men. Cas. You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus I said, an elder soldier not a better. Did I say, better ?-Bru. If you did, I care not. Cas. When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me. Bru. Peace, peace, you durst not so have tempted him. Cas. I durst not ? Bru. No. Cas. What ? durst not tempt him ? Bru. For your life you durst not. Cas. Do not presume too much upon my love I may do that I shall be sorry for. Bru. You have done that you should be sorry for. There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats For I am armed so strong in honesty, That they pass by me, as the idle wind Which I respect not. I did send to you For certain sums of gold, which you denied me -For I can raise no money by vile means By heaven, I had rather coin my heart, And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash, By any indirection -@I did send To you for gold to pay my legions, Which you denied me was that done like Cassius
 FROM RETALIATION. OF old, when Scarron his companions invited, Each guest brought his dish, and the feast was united If our landlord supplies us with beef and with fish, Let each guest bring himself, and he brings the best dish. . . . Our Dean shall be venison, just fresh from the plains, Our Burke @@shall be tongue, with a garnish of brains. . . . Our Garrick's a salad for in him we see Oil, vinegar, sugar, and saltness agree To make out the dinner, full certain I am That Ridge is anchovy, and Reynolds is lamb That Hickey's a capon, and by the same rule Magnanimous Goldsmith a gooseberry fool. . . . Here lies our good Edmund, † whose genius was such, We scarcely can praise it, or blame it, too much Who, born for the universe, narrowed his mind, And to party gave up what was meant for mankind. Though fraught with all learning, yet straining his throat, To persuade Tommy Townshend ‡ to lend him a vote Who, too deep for his hearers, still went on refining, And thought of convincing, while they thought of dining Goldsmith and some of his friends occasionally dined at St. James' Coffee-house. One da@y it was proposed to write epitaphs on him his country, dialect, person, furnished subjects of witticism. He was called on for retaliation, and at their next meeting produced this poem. There are 146 lines, but it is unfinished, as Goldsmith died before completing it. † Edmund Burke. ‡ M.P. for Whitchurch, afterwards Lord Sydne
 holloaing clear, directs the wanderer right,@-In such a night, when passing clouds give place, Or thinly veil the heaven's mysterious face. When in some river, overhung with green, The waving moon and trembling leaves are seen, When freshened grass now bears itself upright, And makes cool banks to pleasing rest invite, Whence spring the woodbine and the bramble-rose, And where the sleepy cowslip sheltered grows, Whilst now a paler hue the foxglove takes, Yet chequers still with red the dusky brakes, Where scattered glowworms,@-@but in twilight fine, Show trivial beauties, watch their hour to shine, While Salisbury stands the test of every light, In perfect charms and perfect beauty bright When odours, which declined repelling day, Through temperate air uninterrupted stray When darkened groves their softest shadows wear, And falling waters we distinctly hear When through the gloom more venerable shows Some ancient fabric awful in repose While sunburned hills their swarthy looks conceal, And swelling haycocks thicken up the vale When the loosed horse now, as his pasture leads, Comes slowly grazing thro' the adjoining meads, Whose stealing pace and lengthened shade we fear, Till torn-up forage in his teeth we hear When nibbling sheep at large pursue their food, And unmolested kine rechew the cud When curlews cry beneath the village walls, And to her straggling brood the partridge calls Their short-lived jubilee the creatures keep, Which but endures whilst tyrant Man doth sleep When a sedate content the spirit feel
 MY BOOKS. My days among the dead are past Around me I behold, Where'er these casual eyes are cast, The mighty minds of old My never-failing friends are they, With whom I converse day by day. With them I take delight in weal, And seek relief in woe And while I understand and feel How much to them I owe, My cheeks have often been bedewed With tears of thoughtful gratitude. My thoughts are with the dead with them I live in long-past years, Their virtues love, their faults condemn, Partake their hopes and fears, And from their lessons seek and find Instruction with an humble mind. My hopes are with the dead anon My place with them will be, And I with them shall travel on, Through all futurity Yet leaving here a name, I trust, That will not perish in the dust. -@Southey. See a passage from Southey's Colloquies, quoted by Professor Dowden in his Southey, pp. io6@to log. Southey writes ' My library, if reduced to twelve books, would consist of Shakspere, Chaucer, Spenser and Milton Jackson, Jeremy Taylor and South Izaak Walton, Sidney's Arcadia, Fuller's Church History and Sir Thomas Browne 
 VAN ARTEVELDE'S LAMENT FOR JOHN OF LAUNOY. I NEVER looked that he should live so long, He was a man of that unsleeping spirit, He seemed to live by miracle his food Was glory, which was poison to his mind And peril to his body. He was one Of many thousand such that die betimes, Whose story is a fragment, known to few. Then comes the man who has the luck to live, And he's a prodigy. Weigh chance with chance, And deem there's ne'er a one in dangerous times Who wins the race of glory, but than him A thousand men more gloriously endowed Have fallen upon the course a thousand more Have had their fortunes by haphazard wrecked Whilst lighter barks pushed past them to whom add A smaller tally, of the singular few Who, gifted with predominating powers, Bear yet a temperate will and keep the peace. The world knows nothing of its greatest men. -@Sir Henry Taylor. CCCLXXVI. EXTEMPORE EFFUSION UPON THE DEATH OF JAMES HOGG. WHEN first, descending from the moorlands, I saw the Stream of Yarrow glide Along a bare and open valley, The Ettrick Shepherd was my guide. When last along its banks I wandered, Through groves that had begun to shed Their golden leaves upon the pathways, My steps the Border-minstrel le
 THE AIR@ London -@H. SUCH, Machine Printer, @@Pub-lisher, 177, Union-street, Boro'.  no matter where we go, There's nothing here but trouble, hardship, toil, and woe, Go where we will, do what we may, we are never free from care, And at the best this w@orld is but a Castle in the air. And yet each being loves the land where he sported as a child, The every savage love@s his plain,his woods, his prairies wild, And I with a true Irish heart still wish Ireland there To sit amongst her groves and build Castles in the air. Old Ireland had her poet, she loved him well I'm sure. He was a true born Irishman, his name it was Tom Moore, But of this world's so@rrows we know he had his share, For Moore was always building his Castles in the air. He sang the right of Ireland, he sang against her wrongs, And many loving Irish hearts they cherish yet his songs, He made the Irish heart rejoice, he bade them ne'er despair, And for Ireland in the future he built Castles in the air. We boast of Dan O'Con@nell, too, who struggled hard and sore, To bring both peace and happiness to dear old Erin's shore, And though his efforts were in vain, the spirit still was there, For Dan still struggled on and built Castles in the air And now though he's dead and gone we find both old and young, Will often quote the w@it that flow'd from Dan O'Con-nell's tongue The widow and the fatherless, their sorrows he would share, And built for them in days to come bright Castles in the air. Old Ireland had her statesmen and have artists shone Her sculptors and her generals who noble deeds have done @@Besides, she boasts of Goldsmith, with talents rich and rare,@@ Whose standard works make thousands build their Castles in the air. Her mountains, lakes, and vallies, are lovely to behold, Her daughters they are bright and fair, her sons are@@ brave and bold No other country where I've been to me seems half so fair, As the land where I in childhood built my CASTLES  a jolly crew, I cannot think, says old John Bull, whatever they mean to do, Some stunning alterations they wi@ ey soon propose, For the welfare of the S@hamrockveh Thistle, an@d t@he Rose. There never was such doings In the Parliament before. @@@@@@@They are going to pass an act against all Sunday trading, And prevent the lads and lasses too from going out parading The Barber too, will have to rue, from Saturday till Monday, They'll make him swallow his lather-box if he shaves upon a Sunday. If a man is troubled with the gout, the cholic, or the phthisic, On Sunday he wont be allowed to swallow any physic, If a Baker be found baking any puddings on a Sunday, He'll be shoved into his oven until ten o'clock on Monday. The Butcher cannot sell his fat or ope out his stall, The Cobler he will be compelled to throw away his awl If a Tailor works on Sunday they intend to make him jump, They'll give him goose and cabbage, with a needle in his r@-@p. The next thing they are going to do is to stop our Sunday ale, And they're going to tax the ladies gloves, their boa, and their veil The Roman falls and Grecian bends, they'll put a tax upon, A@@@nd lay a double treble tax upon the girl's chignon. The next thing they nre going to make some big slugs, And pass an act of Parliament to muzzle all the bugs John Bull is so tormented and troubled in his mind, For the weight of heavy taxes tore his breeches all behind. There'll be a pretty row when this Sunday bill does pass, On Sundays we shall have no grub, but be compelled to fast, They'll surely kill the cat if she kittens on a Sunday, And if a woman falls in labour she must put it off till Monday. We have humbugs and scrums as everybody knows We have wittinbugs ad humbugs plucking at the English rose he Prussian bugs, and German b@ug, at us had a pull, And we've lately had a Scotch bug nibbling old John Bu
 who at the Kings approach presented him with a garland of sweet flowres, yeelding him such honour as the Ladies of Rome were wont to doe to their Princes after their victories which the King tooke in gracious part, and for his farewell from that Country, they bore him company ouer part of the Plaine, with the sound of diuers sweet instruments of musicke. All which when his Grace vnderstood was done at the cost of a Clothier, he said he was the most honoured by those men, aboue all the meane subiects in his Land and so his Highness past on to Exeter, hauing giuen great rewards to these maidens. Tomas Doue and the residue of the Clothiers, against his Graces comming thither, had ordained diuers sump-tuous shews first, there was one that presented the person of Augustus Cesar the Emperour, who com-manded after the Romane inuasion, that their City should be called Augustus, after his owne name, which before time was called Isca, and of later yeeres, Exeter. There his Maiesty was royally feasted seuen dayes together, at the onely cost of Clothiers, but the diuers delightes and sundry pastimes which they made there before the King, and his Nobles, is too long here to be rehearsed, and therefore I will ouerpasse them to auoid tediousnesse. His Grace then coasting along the Country, at last came to Glocester, an ancient City, which was builded by Gloue, a Brittish King, who named it after his owne name, Glocester. Here was his Maiesty entertained 
 Scrub Islet, also called Anguillita, lies to the east, distant about a quarter of a mile this, and Dog Island on the northwest, are the largest of the outlying dependencies. The channel between Anguilla and St. Martin to the south is four miles wide, affording a safe passage for the largest ships. Anguilla lies sixty miles northwest of St. Christopher. There is little to attract attention to this flat and uninteresting place nevertheless, it seemed beautiful to me. Even the parched moorland in the afternoon light put on a garb of rich and mellow coloring, and all around the sea framed it in, making a picture of great loveliness, wonderful for the effect of softly blending outlines and deli-cate shading. To the south, in striking contrast to the low, uninteresting, level plain of Anguilla, St. Martin towers above the sea in picturesque grandeur. We passed within five miles of its leeward coast, upon which the sunlight of afternoon shone, glorifying all the western shore. The mountains and savannahs presented an exquisite landscape of rare color, flecked by shadows of drifting clouds, the sombre tints of for-ests and darkened valleys all showing like an embroidered pattern of oriental carpeting. Fertile meadows and plantations spread over the hill-sides between the sea-shore and the dense forests on the mountain-steeps here and there villages, isolated dwellings, and hamlets of white-walled farm-buildings, roofed with red tiles, appeared among groves of palms and fruit-bearing trees. On the sea, between the steamer's wake and rugged cliffs overhanging a long margin of breakers, the sails of fish-ing-boats glistened in the sunlight as the steady northeast trade-wind wafted them far out from shore. We were loath to hasten past so lovely a picture, but comforted ourselves with the thought that on our return homeward we might perhaps feast our eyes with one more view of St. Martin, our first love. The early Spanish navigators used to resort to this island for the purpose of procuring salt, which was taken in great abundance fr
 length granted his petition whereupon till this day, it is obserued in Hallifax, that such as are taken stealing of their cloth, haue their heads chopt off with the same gin. How the Bailiffes of London could get no man to bee a Catchpole, and how certaine Flemings tooke that office vpon them, whereof many of them were fledde into this Realme, by reason of certaine waters that had drowned a great part of their Country. Chap. 9. THE City of London being at that time gouerned by Bailiffes, it came to passe, that in a certaine fray two of their Catch-poles were killed, for at that time they had not the name of Sergeants and you shall vnderstand, that their office was then so much hated and detested of Englishmen, that none of them would take it vpon him so that the Bailiffes were glad to get any man whatso-euer, and to giue him certain wages to performe that office. It came to passe, as I said before, that two of their Officers by arresting of a man, were at one instant slaine, by meanes whereof the Bailiffes were enforced to seeke others to put in their roomes but by no meanes could they get any, wherefore according to their wonted man-ner, they made proclamation, that if there were any man that would present himselfe before them, he should not onely be settled in that office during their liues, but also should haue such maintenance and allowance, as for such men was by the City prouided and notwithstandi
 pleasure he may doe thee by his purse, and what credit by his countenance, thou wouldst neuer stand on such nice points. If I be thy friend, w@ho dareth be thy foe ? and what is he that will once call thy name in question for any thing ? therefore sweet girle, be better aduised, and refuse not my offer being so large. Truly sir William quoth she though there be many reasons to make me deny your suite, yet is there one aboue the rest that causes me I cannot loue you. Now, I pray thee, my wench let me know that, quoth he, and I will amend it whatsoeuer it be. Pardon me sir, said Margaret, if I should speake my mind, it would possibly offend you, and doe me no pleasure because it is a defect in nature, which no phisicke can cure. Sir William hearing on her so, being abashed at her speech, said, Faire Margaret, let me if I may obtaine no more at tby hands yet intreat thee to know what this defect should be I am not wry-neckt, crook-legd, stub-footed, lame-handed, nor bleare-eyed what can make this mislike ? I neuer knew any body that tooke exceptions at my person before. And the more sorry am I, quoth she, that I was so malapert to speake it, but pardon me my presumption, good sir William, I would I had beene like the Storke tonguelesse, then should I neuer haue caused your dis-quiet. Nay sweet Margaret, quoth he, tell me deare loue, I commend thy singlenesse of heart, good Margaret speake. Good sir William let it rest, quoth shee, I know you will not beleeue it when I haue reuealed i
 is supposed from the allusion to him made by Nash in his Have with You to Saffron Walden, who speaks of him as the Balletting Silk Weaver, to have been a native of Norwich and a weaver by trade. The time of his birth is however unknown. His earliest production which has come down to us is a ballad, written by him on the execution of the fourteen Traitors who were engaged in Babbington's Conspi-racy in 1586. It is entitled A proper New Ballad breefely declaring the Death and Execution of 14 most wicked Traitors who suffered Death in Lincolnes Inne Fielde neere London the 20 and 21st of September, 1586. To the Tune of Weep Weep. This was re-printed in the Collection of Old Ballads from Early Printed Copies, edited by Mr. Collier, which was the first publication of the Percy Society. In 1596, Deloney was compelled to evade the search of the Mayor of London, and the punishment which, had he been captured, would have awaited him, for writing a certain Ballad, containing a Complaint of great Want and Scarcity of Corn within the Realm, .@.@.@. bringing in the Queen speaking with her people Dialogue-wise in very fond and undecent Sort. On which occasion he is described by Stowe, in his Survey b. v. 333, ed. 1720 , as an idle fellow, and@@@ one noted with the like spirit in printing a Book f
 walking in an air of glory, Whose light doth trample on my days My days, which are at best but dull and hoary, Mere glimmering and decays. O holy Hope ! and high Humility, High as the heavens above ! These are your walks, and you have showed them me, To kindle my cold love. Dear, beauteous Death ! the jewel of the just, Shining no where, but in the dark What mysteries do lie beyond thy dust Could man outlook that mark ! He that hath found some fledged bird's nest, may know At first sight, if the bird be flown But what fair dell or grove he sings in now, That is to him unknown. And yet as angels in some brighter dreams Call to the soul, when man doth sleep So some strange thoughts transcend our wonted themes And into glory peep. If a star were confined into a tomb, The captive flames must needs burn there But when the hand that locked her up, gives room, She'll shine through all the sphere. O Father of eternal life, and all Created glories under Thee@! Resume Thy spirit from this world of thrall Into true liberty. Either disperse these mists, which blot and fill My perspective still as they pass Or else remove me hence unto that hill, Where I shall need no glass. -@Vaugh
 But I always lived a holy life, And, sir, you need not wonder,@-I never saw a Papist yet, I would not kill or plunder. I killed and slew by William's rule, Their goods I confiscated, And like a faithful Orangeman, I never deviated. St. Peter.@-@Begone from hence ! your hand is stain'd With blood of many Martyrs ! For vengeance now to God they cry, You would not give them quarter. You disobeyed the laws of God, And holy will of Jesus, Which for the same you're doomed to dwel In everlasting blazes. Orangeman. Be not so harsh but do go back, And tell the brave King William, That anxiously I here now wait, With news I've got to tell him Or Luther, Calvin, they will do, Elizabeth or Harry,@-Cranmer, Wickcliffe, Knox, or Fox, They know from whence I tarry. St. Peter.@-@There is none of them dwell in this place, Or of their generation, In sorrow they are doo@m'd to dwell For ever in d-mn-t-n. God's annointed they have slew, In gaols for years confined them, So in the hellish shades of night, For ever you must join them. Orangeman. Oh ! do I pray some pity take, I made a clear confession, And for me to the God within, Do make an intercession. For I would live till the great day, In purgatory's region, I'd rather bear it ten times o'er, Then join your hellish legion. St. Peter.@-@It's all in vain it is too late, For you to plead in favour But like your brother heretics, In hell's your doom for ever. You did not pray to me in time, That doctrine you are scorning, So you must go to dwell in night, That never has a morning. PRINTED FOR  fading Sol had closed the day, And night was fast approaching, An Orangeman, in grief he lay, For death at him was nearing. His mighty deeds he did reveal, Of murder and of slaughter,r, The Sacrilege of Priest and Church, Since William cross'd the Water.@ But the icy hand, ad deadly grip, Soon stop'd his conversation. And the naked soul obliged to slip, The seat of her ruination To seek the mighty throne above, Where glories lie unshaken, To give the SIGN, and enter in, Alas ! he was mistaken. Great knocking at the gate was heard, And not a word was spoken, Till Peter, with the keys in hand, The gate he came to open But looking through@-@he saw there stand, An orange son of Luther, And in these words, he then address'd, The infamous vile intruder. St. Peter.@-@What are you ? from whence ? be quick ! What was your rank or station ? Where is the BRAND upon your face Of Holy Consecration ? I fear you are a Heretic, And did not get anointed Which is the PASS you should have got From those whom God appointed ? Orangeman. In truth I am an Orangeman, No Papist thought I harbour, I never harken'd to a Priest, Nor bow'd before his altar. But since my life on earth began, These foolish rites I hated, And strictly harken'd to the law, That Luther consecrated. I never pray unto a saint, Nor beg'd of him a favour To reach this place by Virgin's tears, I never did endeavour. I never bended on my knees, Performed in any station, Nor vet I never did believe, 
 stiff the hand, and still the tongue, Of those who fought, and spoke, and sung Here, where the fretted aisles prolong The distant notes of holy song, As if some angel spoke again, ' All peace on earth, good-will to men,' If ever from an English heart, O, here let prejudice depart, And, partial feeling cast aside, Record, that Fox a Briton died ! When Europe crouched to France's yoke And Austria bent, and Prussia broke, And the firm Russian's purpose brave, Was bartered by a timorous slave, Even then dishonour's peace he spurned, The sullied olive-branch returned, Stood for his country's glory fast, And nailed her colours to the mast Heaven, to reward his firmness, gave A portion in this honoured grave, And ne'er held marble in its trust Of two such wondrous men the dust. 1808. -@Scott's M@arm@ion. CCCXIII. YOUTH AND AGE@ VERSE, a breeze 'mid blossoms straying, Where Hope clung feeding, like a bee@-Both were mine ! Life went a-maying With Nature, Hope, and Poesy, When I was young ! When I was young? Ah, woeful when ! Ah ! for the change 'twixt Now and Then  One of the most perfect poems, for style, feeling, and every-thing, that ever was written.'― Leigh Hun
 with poverty, my soul I arm, And virtue, though in rags, will keep me warm. What is't to me, Who never sail in her unfaithful sea, If storms arise and clouds grow black, If the mast split, and threaten wreck ? Then let the greedy merchant fear For his ill-gotten gain And pray to gods that do not hear, W@hile the debating winds and billows bear His wealth into the main. For me, secure from Fortune's blows, Secure of what I cannot lose, In my small pinnace I can sail, Contemning all the blustering roar, And running with a merry gale With friendly stars my safety seek Within some little winding creek, And see the storm ashore. -Dry den. CC. ALEXANDER'S FEAST OR, THE POWER OF MUSIC. A SONG IN HONOUR OF ST. CECILIA'S DAY, 1697. 'TWAS at the royal feast, for Persia won By Philip's warlike son Aloft in awful state The godlike hero sate On his imperial throne His valiant peers were placed around Their brows with roses and with myrtles bound So should desert in arms be crowned The lovely Thais by his side Sat like a blooming Eastern bride, In flower of youth and beauty's prid
 ran after him, calling and crying that he should turne againe But the Fleming would not by any meanes turne backe, but got him quite out of the City, and tooke Sanctuary at Westminster. Doue being come to himselfe, arose and went to his Inne, no man hindring his passage, being not a little glad he so escaped the danger. Yet neuerthelesse, at his next comming to London, another Catchpole met with him, and arrested him in the Kings name. Doue being dismayed at this mischieuous mischance, knew not what to doe at last hee requested the Catch-pole that hee would not violently cast him in prison, but stay till such time as he could send for a friend to be his surety and although kindnesse in a Catchpole be rare, yet was he won with faire words to doe him this fauour whereupon Doue desired one to goe to his Oast Iarrat, who immediately came with him, and offered himselfe to be Doues surety. The Officer, who neuer saw this man before, was much amazed at his sight for Iarrat was a great and mighty man of body, of countenance grim, and exceed-ing high of stature, so that the Catchpole was wonder-fully afraid, asking if he could find neuer a surety but the deuill, most fearfully intreating him to coniure him away, and he would doe Doue any fauour. What, will you not take my word, qd. Iarrat ? sir, qd. the Catchpole, if it were for any matter in hell, I would take your word as soone as any diuels in that place, but seeing it is for a matter on earth, I would gladly haue a suret
 OXFORD CITY. I IT'S of a fair maid in Oxford city, @@@Now the truth to you I'll tell, She by a servant man was courted, He ofttimes said he loved her well. She loved him too but at a distance, She did not seem to be very fond He said, my dear, why do you slight me ? I know you love some other man. Why not, my dear, why can't we marry ? That at once would end this strife. I'd work for you both late and early, If you'll be my sweet wedded wife. She said, my dear, we're too young to marry, Too young to climb the marriage bed, For when married we are bound for ever, My dear, and all our joys are fled. He said, my dear, you've another sweetheart, And in his company you take delight, But for your fondness, you inconstant fair one I soon would end your tender life. It was soon after, this lovely creature She was invited to dance, you know, This jealous young man he followed after, And then prepared for her overthrow. As she was dancing with another, Base jealousy then filled his mind, And to destroy his own true love, This wicked young man was inclined. Then some poison he soon prepared, And mixed with it a glass of wine, He gave the liquor to his true love, And she drank it up most cheerfully And when she drank it, quickly after, Take me home, my dear, she said, The glass of wine you lately gave me, Makes me very ill, she said. As they were walking home together, These words to her he then did say, I gave you poison in your liquor, To take your tender life away. And I have drank the same, my jewel. I soon shall die as well as thee Then in each others arms they died, Young men beware of jealousy.  -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and Publisher, 177, Union  time I left Carrick, Being the twenty-ninth day of last June, I parted from my loving companions, And great was my sorrow at noon. I roved over hills, dales, and valleys, And rocks that was lofty and high, Till at length in a grove near this damsel, At night I did gloriously lie. When early I woke from my slumber, Curiosity did me invite, I roved for Carrick the same morning,@ @@@@@To gaze on my heart's delight Her beauty was so engaging, And her glance it quite wounded me, This country I'll range it all over, Till I find out sweet Gra Gal Machree. Prince William, that noble fine monarch, From Carrick he first took the sway, He thought it the greatest of honour, And then to England he sailed away For he had a great store of riches, And all for to make them secure, His intentions was to build him a fine cottage, On the lovely sweet banks of the Suir. The Suir is a fine place for sporting, No man can disdain it I'm sure, The sun rises there every morning, And sick is the heart it won't cure All the beauties of nature combining, Woods, meadows, and waters so pure, It would dazzle the eyes that would gaze On the lovely sweet banks of the Suir. O
 and slaine by Caesar then vanished they both away. My lord ambassadour said the king me thinks that my Englishman has put down your German hath he no better cunning than this ? Yes, answered Vandermast, your grace shall see me put downe your Englishman ere that you goe from hence and therefore Fryer pre-pare thy selfe with thy best of art to withstand me. Alas, said Fryer Bacon, it is a little thing will serve to resist thee in this kind. I have here one that is my in-ferior shewing him Fryer Bungey try thy art with him and if thou doe put him to the worst, then will I deale with thee, and not till then. Fryer Bungey then began to shew his art and after some turning and looking in his booke, he brought up among them the Hysperian Tree, which did beare golden apples these apples were kept by a waking dragon, that lay under the tree He having done this, bid Van-dermast finde one that durst gather the fruit. Then Vandermast did raise the ghost of Hercules in his habit that he wore when that he was living, and with his club on his shoulder Here is one, said Vandermast, that shall gather fruit from this tree this is Hercules, that in his life time gathered of this fruit, and made the dragon crouch and now againe shall hee gather it in spight of all opposition. As Hercules was going to plucke the fruit, Fryer Bacon held up his wand, at which Hercules stayed and seemed fearful. Vandermast bid him for to gather of the fruit, or else he would torme
 pans along the shore but they made no lasting settlements, and St. Martin was not occupied permanently until the Dutch and French entered into joint possession of it, and the descendants of these early settlers continue until this day living peaceably together on the island, preserving the traditions and language, the manners and time-honored customs, of their forefathers. The Dutch were the first to arrive in the island after the Spaniards left it@-@being led thither from St. Eustatius by no less celebrated a personage than Admiral de Ruyter, who happened to be cruising in these seas at the time. The French came to St. Martin shortly after the Dutch, and, by an amicable ar-rangement with the representative of the States General, divided the island with them, keeping the northwest part for themselves, while the Hollanders withdrew to the southeastern portion, congratulat-ing themselves upon having the best of the bargain, seeing that the most profitable salt-ponds were included in their reservation. At first the Dutch outnumbered the French, but in these latter days this order of things has been reversed@-@the latest enumeration of the in-habitants showing that, while there are between four or five thousand citoyens who shrug the shoulder, there are less than three thousand burghers who lay the forefinger alongside the nose. As was to be ex-pected, there has been considerable confusion of tongues in naming places, bodies of water, and divisions of the dry land, in @this colony, divided as it is between the people of two nations thus we find Philipsburg, the seat of government of the Dutch part of the island, at the head of Grande Baie, the entrance to which is, or rather was in days gone by, guarded by Fort Willem and Fort Amsterdam. Morne de la Fortune, a conical peak forming a bold promontory, juts far into the sea from the northwest coast, confronting Oostenberg, a promi-nent landmark soaring heavenward a few miles farther to the south. There is a Baie d@'Orient, an Anse de la Grande Case, and bays with names as Dutch as Zuyder Zee. Finally, just as the men of ancient Athens erected an altar to the Unknown, so did some of the early set-tlers of St. Martin@-@heaven only knows if they were of Hollandish 
 the poor Indian ! whose untutored mind Sees God in clouds, or hears Him in the wind His soul, proud science never taught to stray Far as the solar walk, or milky way Yet simple nature to his hope has given, Behind the cloud-topt hill, an humbler heaven Some safer world in depth of woods embraced, Some happier island in the watery waste, Where slaves once more their native land behold, No fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold. To be, contents his natural desire, He asks no angel's wing, no seraph's fire But thinks admitted to that equal sky, His faithful dog shall bear him company. Go, wiser thou ! and, in thy scale of sense, Weigh thy opinion against Providence Call imperfection what thou fanciest such, Say, Here he gives too little, there too much Destroy all creatures for thy sport or gust, Yet cry, if man's unhappy, God's unjust If man alone engross not heaven's high care, Alone made perfect here, immortal there Snatch from his hand the balance and the rod, Rejudge his justice, be the God of God. In pride, in reasoning pride, our error lies All quit their sphere, and rush into the skies. Pride still is aiming at the blest abodes, Men would be angels, angels would be Gods. Aspiring to be Gods, if angels fell Aspiring to be angels, men rebel And who but wishes to invert the laws Of order, sins against th' Eternal Cause. -@Ep. i. Honour and shame from no condition rise Act well your part, there all the honour lie
 do unto these West Indians even as their countrymen had done unto us. We got on famously with our newly found friends, and be-fore bedtime each one of our party had received numerous invitations to lunch, to dine, to drive, to stop a night, make ourselves at home when we arrived at islands yet in store for us@-@islands of which some of us had, I fear, as indefinite ideas as Columbus had when he first dis-covered this Caribbean Archipelago, four centuries ago. With such tropical rapidity and spontaneity did the bud of acquaintance blossom, bloom, and ripen unto the full flower and fruit of good-fellowship, that before bedtime I found myself exchanging confidences on terms of delightful familiarity with ne@w old friends, whose flattering invita-tions I had accepted, whose names I may have heard mentioned when introduced to them to some I was not formally presented , but whose faces I had as yet dimly seen by the unsatisfactory glimmer of an oc-casional match or by the glow of pipe or cigar as we smoked in the dark out on deck. At nine o'clock a gun was fired to recall those passengers who had again lingered during the latter part of the afternoon and the early evening on shore, enticed by swizzle or other forms of hospital-ity. At ten the Barracouta, getting under weigh, sailed southward, keeping close to the leeward coast of St. Kitt's then, crossing the narrow channel between that island and Nevis, skirted the sout b western coast of that island and at midnight came to the open sea. Presently turning to the east, the ship steamed leisurely all night toward the light-house at the entrance of the harbor of St. John's, Antigua, where, after a run of sixty miles from Basseterre, she was to cast anchor in the mornin
 story of Cambuscan bold, Of Camball, and of Algarsife, And who had Canace to wife, That owed the virtuous ring and glass, And of the wondrous horse of brass On which the Tartar king did ride And if aught else great bards beside In sage and solemn tunes have sung, Of turneys, and of trophies hung, Of forests, and enchantments drear, Where more is meant than meets the ear. Thus, Night, oft see me in thy pale career, Till civil-suited Morn appear, Not tricked and frounced, as she was wont With the Attic boy to hunt, But kerchiefed in a comely cloud, While rocking winds are piping loud Or ushered with a shower still, When the gust hath blown his fill, Ending on the rustling leaves, With minute drops from off the eaves. And, when the sun begins to fling His flaring beams, me, Goddess, bring To archèd walks of twilight groves, And shadows brown, that Sylvan loves, Of pine, or monumental oak, Where the rude axe with heavèd stroke Was never heard the Nymphs to daunt, Or fright them from their hallowed haunt, There in close covert by some brook, Where no profaner eye may look, Hide me from day's garish eye, While the Lee with honeyed thig
 patent leather. When a sailor in a red flannel shirt approached her closely, coining between the sun and her nobility, she seemed to reflect a blush. Her bandanna, wrapped in many, well-starched folds, was gorgeous her gown, flowered over with bewildering and exuber-ant patterns of brilliant coloring, was so resplendent that it was tor-ment to observe her, all so gaudy, in the full blaze of a tropical sun-light. The eye craved a fragment of black bottle or smoked glass. I was reminded of Lucas and his astonishment over Martine's de-scription of the apparel of Sganarelle in Le médecin malgré lui. Un habit jaune et vart ! C'est done le médecin des perroquets. We light-minded Barracoutans, who had scoffed at the pretensions of the Southern Cross to be regarded as a constellation of more than ordinary candle-power, irreverently dubbed the colored lady the Parrot Queen then, waxing more impertinent, called her Aunt Polly. We watched her as two hatless, shoeless, almost half@-clothed darky boys rowed her boat in a bee-line for the foot of the Barra-couta's companion-ladder. As she came toward the ship the flotilla of small boats divided, even as the waters of the Red Sea rolled back on either hand at the approach of the hosts of Israel, and Aunt Polly passed unchallenged through the midst of the fleet, having as much deference paid her as if she had been the Collector of the Port. We wondered, and did her such reverence as became her quality, made obeisance, and said no more about parrots and smoked glass. Her majesty's barge, bumping against the foot of the ladder, brought up all standing, with a jounce that set Aunt Polly a-shaking like a bowlful of jelly. When she recovered from the shock and settled down, she perpetrated a smile@-@one vast, substantial smile, then a series of Fezziwiggian smiles, each more gracious, more open, more expan-sive, and much more elaborate than any I had ever before basked in. In her hand she held a bunch of wands stripped of their bark each wand was about eighteen inches long and as large round as a lead-pencil and all were tied with colored ribbons, which held them firmly together as Roman fasces are bound. The gesture was suggestively 
 fancy and his judgment such, Each to the other seemed too much His sévere judgment, giving law, His modest fancy kept in awe, As rigid husbands jealous are When they believe their wives too fair. His English stream so pure did flow, As all that saw and tasted know. -@Denham. CLXXX. THE DANGER OF RICHES AND POWER. EXTOL not riches, then, the toil of fools, The wise man's cumbrance, if not snare more apt To slacken Virtue and abate her edge Than prompt her to do aught may merit praise. What if with like aversion I reject Riches and realms ? Yet not for that a crown, Golden in show, is but a wreath of thorns, Brings dangers, troubles, cares, and sleepless nights, To him who wears the regal diadem, When on his shoulders each man's burden lies For therein stands the office of a king, His honour, virtue, merit, and chief praise, That for the public all this weight he bears. Yet he who reigns within himself, and rules, Passions, desires, and fears, is more a king, Which every wise and virtuous man attains And who attains not ill aspires to rule Cities of men, or headstrong multitudes, Subject himself to anarchy within. Or lawless passions in him, which he serves. But to guide nations in the way of truth By saving doctrine, and from error lead To know, and, knowing, worship God arigh
 too lazy to breathe. They snored instead ! When the Salmagundian had contemplated the drowsy scene, he mumbled something about charcoal-paper and making a sketch, but he never carried out his threat. Once, after a long silence, he pulled himself together sufficiently to mutter in a weary tone, as if dazed and over-come by the discovery The ship joggles ! Once he attempted to leave his deck-chair, but sank back spine-lessly a far-away look came into his eyes, his mind wandered, and so, with a great sigh, softly murmuring We're a nod lot, he flickered, so to speak, for an instant, and went out into forgetfulness. The Salmagundian slept ! What an afternoon it was when we sighted the most northern group of the lovely Caribbees ! I shall never forget it. Reader, I shall not try it would be utterly useless, so far beyond the power of words to describe the glory of it. Even now, long afterward, to think of it awakens memories of sensuous de-light it seems as if, eons ago, I had lived with the lotos-eaters@-@had visited the land where it is always afternoon. After leaving Sombrero astern the steamer passed within a few miles of Anguilla Anguis Insula , or Snake Island, a long, narrow, serpentine strip of land@-@as its name implies, an almost treeless plain -@inhabited by herdsmen who make but little, if any, attempt to cultivate the unfruitful soil or prepare scant pasturage for a few miser-able herds of cattle and half-starved flocks of sheep that bite the herbage, as Dr. Sam Johnson would have said@- graze would be too enthusiastic a term to describe their futile efforts to fill their bellies with sun-dried grass and weeds. More than two hundred years ago the French settlers of St. Chris-topher sent an agent to spy out this island. On his return from his mission he reported to his countrymen L'isle n'est pas estimee valoir la peine qu'on la garde ni qu'on la cultive. And his people, accepting this low estimate of the value and fe
 sits the dame, disguised in look profound, And eyes her airy-throng, and turns her wheel around. Her cap far whiter than the driven snow, Emblem right meet of decency does yield Her apron dyed in grain, as blue, I trow, As is the hare-bell that adorns the field, And in her hand, for sceptre, she does wield Tway birchen sprays with anxious fear entwined, With dark distrust, and sad repentance filled And stedfast hate, and sharp affliction joined, And fury uncontrolled, and chastisement unkind. . . In elbow chair like that of Scottish stem, By the sharp tooth of cankering eld defaced, In which, when he receives his diadem, Our sovereign prince and liefest liege is placed, The matron sate and some with rank she graced, The source of children's and of courtier's pride ! Redressed affronts, for vile affronts there passed And warned them not the fretful to deride, But love each other dear, whatever them betide. Right well she knew each temper to descry To thwart the proud, and the submiss to raise Some with vile copper-prize exalt on high, And some entice with pittance small of praise And other some with baleful sprig she 'frays, Ev'n absent, she the reins of power doth hold, While with quaint arts the giddy crowd she sways Forewarned, if little bird their pranks behold, 'Twill whisper in her ear, and all the scene unfold. Low now with state she utters the command ! Eftsoons the urchins to their tasks repair Their books of stature small they take in han
 BEAUTY BEYOND EXPRESSION. IF all the pens that ever poets held Had fed the feeling of their masters' thoughts, And every sweetness that inspired their hearts, And minds, and muses on admired themes If all the heavenly quintessence they still From their immortal flowers of poesy, Wherein, as in a mirror, we perceive The highest reaches of a human wit If these had made one poem's period, And all combined in beauty's worthiness, Yet should there hover in their restless heads One thought, one grace, one wonder, at the best, Which into words no virtue can digest. -@Marlowe's Tamburlaine. XIX. TAMBURLAINE. OF stature tall, and straight@ly fashioned, Like his desire, lift upward and divine So large of limbs, his joints so strongly knit, Such breadth of shoulders as might mainly bear Old Atlas' burden 'twixt his manly pitch A pearl more worth than all the world is placed, Wherein by curious sovereignty of art Are fixed his piercing instruments of sight, Whose fiery circles bear encompassed A heaven of heavenly bodies in their spheres, That guides his steps and actions to the throne, Where honour sits invested royally Pale of complexion, wrought in him with  the Great, Part I., was the first play in blank verse performed in public, and was acted prior to 1587. † Cf. Paradise Lost, iv. 114, 115. Leigh Hunt refers to Beau-mont's lines to Melancholy, line 13, infr
 and thus beynge mery, he came home to his palays and whan they were all set to dyner, Robert presented hymselfe before themperour as he was wonte to do, playnge the fole, and makynge hym dombe as afore rehersed is the emperour reioysed in hymselfe whan he se Robert, for he loued hym well and whan he perceyued Robert's hurte in his face@, and thought that some of his seruauntes had hurte hym whyle he was out, wherfore he was angry, and said Here in this court be some enuyous men, for whyle we haue ben out at batayle, they haue beten and hurte this poore innocent creature in his face, which is grete synne, for though he be a fole he dooth no man harme. So themperour commaunded them all upon a grete payne that no man sholde doo hym harme, yf they dyde they sholde be punysshed, that all other sholde be ware by them. Than the emperoure began to axe his knyghtes yf there were any of them that coude telle of the knyght with the whyte hors that came preuely in to the felde, and so valyauntely rescued them, themperour's dough-ter this herynge poynted themperour her fader that it was Robert but the emperour understode not what his doughter mente whan she poynted, for she coude not speke, wherfore he called her maystres to hym, and axed her what his doughter mente by her poyntynge, and her maystres answered and sayd Your doughter menes by her poyntynge that this day ye haue goten the batayll and vyctorye thrughe the helpe of your fole Robert, and the race that is in his face he hath gott
 began to have some idea of where I was going for I confess, when I set out on the voyage, I was wofully ignorant of everything concern-ing the Caribbean Islands, almost of their whereabouts. And I here venture to remark-@not ill-humoredly nor in extenuation of my own lack of knowledge concerning the geography of these islands that dot the chart of the Caribbean Sea like stepping-stones between the shores of North and South America@-@it is an undoubted fact, a fact to be marvelled at, that nine out of ten of my countrymen are no better in-formed on the subject than was I when I set sail for the Windward Islands. I am convinced this is true, for, on my return home, I had what journalists call a beat on nearly all my acquaintances, to whom I had much that was strange and wonderful to tell concerning my travels. I made the pleasing discovery that whatever I had to say about the foreign parts I had visited was good fresh news to such of my friends and neighbors as were compelled, for the sake of politeness or the kindly interest they take in whatever concerns me, to hear me patiently, remaining dumb before me, until I had sailed my voyage to the Caribbees over again. Among other things I discovered how, before the time of Colum-bus, some geographers imagined the existence of a continent lying to the west of the Azores, basing their statements concerning its location and extent on the stories told by adventurous mariners who had journeyed far into the terror-inspiring expanse of the Western Ocean. By giving heed to yarns spun for their delectation, by sailor-men newly returned from cruises in the direction of fabled Cipango and far Cathay, the scientific gentlemen who composed the royal or imperial geographical societies of the fifteenth century became cunning to de-sign maps of the world which they offered in evidence, in support of theories on which they founded a system of physical geography that set at naught the established order of creation. These learned people not only said unto continents Be ye removed and be ye cast into the sea, but, aided by their imaginations, raised from unfathomable depths populous archipelagoes or deserted islands with less mental labor a
 touch of nature makes the whole world kin, That all, with one consent, praise new-born gawds, Though they are made and moulded of things past And give to dust, that is a little gilt, More laud than gilt o'er-dusted. The present eye praises the present object. 1603. -@Shakspere, Troilus and Cressida, iii. 3. LXXX. THE MASTER SPIRIT. GIVE me a spirit that on life's rough sea Loves to have his sails filled with a lusty wind, Even till his sail-yards tremble, his masts crack, And his rapt ship run on her side so low That she drinks water, and her keel ploughs air. There is no danger to a man that knows What life and death is there's not any law Exceeds his knowledge neither is it lawful That he should stoop to any other law He goes before them, and commands them all, That to himself is a law rational. 1604. -@Chapman, B@iron's Conspiracy. LXXXI. INNOCENCE, THE SACRED AMULET. INNOCENCE, the sacred amulet 'Gainst all the poisons of infirmity, Of all misfortune, injury, and death That makes a man in tune still in himself Free from the hell to be his own accuser Ever in quiet, endless joy enjoying No strife nor no sedition in his power
 to awayte for the knyght with the whyte hors and whan they sawe hym come, they rode all at ones out of the wood, and cryed with a loud voyce saynge unto hym O noble knyght, tary and speke with us, who that ye be, and whens and out of what lande ye come, to the entent that we may shewe it to the em-perour, whiche specyally he desyreth for to knowe. Robert this herynge was sore ashamed, and smote his whyte hors with his sporres, flyngynge ouer hylles and ouer valleyes, for bycause he wolde not be knowen but there followed hym a bolde knyght, well horsed, with a spere wenynge to haue kylled his whyte horse, but he myste, and smote Robert in the thyghe with his spere, and the spere heed brake of and stacke styll in his thyghe, but yet for all this he coude gete no know-lege of the knyght with the whyte horse, for he rode from them all euery@chone, whereof they were passynge sory. Robert rode so sore, tyll at the laste he came unto the fountayne and unarmed hym, and layde the harnays on the horse as he hadde done before, whiche in contynente was vanysshed awaye and gone and he drewe out the spere hed out of his thyghe, and hyd it bytwene two grete stones by the fountayne than he layde grece and mosse upon his wounde, for he durst let no man loke therto, for fere he sholde haue ben knowen. And all this sawe and marked the emperour's doughter for bycause she se that Robert was a fayre and well fauoured yonge knyght, she began to cast her loue unto hym. And whan Robert hadde dressed h
 cruell to me, to turne me out of doores, now alas, I know not where to goe, or what to doe, if you forsake me. O let not the fading beauty of my face dispoile me of your fauour for rather then that shall hinder my seruice, this my knife shall soone disfigure my face, and I will banish beauty as my greatest enemy. And with that, her aboundant teares stopped her speech, that shee could not vtter one word more. The woman seeing this, could not harbour any longer, nor could her Master stay in the roome for weeping. Well, Margaret, said her dame little know-ing that a Lady kneeled before her vsing thy selfe well I will keepe thee, and thou shalt haue my good will, if thou gouerne thyselfe with wisedome and so she sent her about her businesse. Her hus-band comming to supper, said, How now wife, art thou so doubtfull of me, that thou hast put away thy maiden ? I wis qd. she you are a wise man, to stand praising of a maidens beauty before her face and you a wise woman, qd. he, to grow iealous without a cause. So to supper they went, and because Margaret shewed her selfe of finest behauiour aboue the rest, she was appointed to waite on the table. And it is to be vnder-stood, that Gray did neuer eate his meat alone, but still had some of bis neighbours with him, before whom he called his maid, saying, Margaret, come hither. Now because there was another of the same name in the house, she made answer. I call not you, maiden, quoth he, but Margaret with the lilly-white hand. After which time she was euer called s
 year that the poet's fellow-countryman, Thomas Warner, landed upon St. Christopher and founded an English colony that is to say, one hundred and thirty years after Columbus had bestowed his own name and that of his patron saint upon the island until then known as The Fertile by its Carib lords. Shakespeare, who of all living men of his day was best informed of what was going on in the world, and made such masterly use of his world-wide knowledge, has paid but little attention to the discovery of a new continent peopled by races of strange and outlandish men. He indeed mentions the still-vexed Bermoothes the Bermudas -@his Shy@lock is made to say of Antonio, He hath a third argosy at Mexico -@but he barely notices the New World, and yet surely he must have heard much of America for in the traveller's history, the recital of which by Othello so charmed the greedy ear of the fair Venetian, there is abundant evidence that the author had in mind the story of some adventurous mariner newly re-turned from beyond the Western ocean to spin yarns about his most disastrous chances and moving accidents, and indulge in a quiet shot, with his good long-bow, at the cannibals that each other eat. That there were races of anthropophagi known to the Europeans before Columbus' time is certain, but man-eaters were not called cannibals until after the Caribs had eaten their first white man, who, in the nat-ure of things, was probably a subject of their Most Catholic Majes-ties Ferdinand and Isabella. Therefore when Shakespeare puts it into the mouth of one of the characters in Coriolanus to say, Had he been cannibally given he might have boiled and eaten him too, the poet is guilty of as glaring an anachronism as when in Julius Caesar he makes his Brutus bid Cassius count the clock. Some of the tribes of the New World anthropophagi are said by early historians to have called themselves Caribs, some Caribals, while others of them pronounced the latter word, Canibals -@changing the @r to n, as Chi-namen transmute r into l. This does not seem in the least improbable, when we consider that the Spaniards changed Christoforo Colombo to Cristóbal Colon, and the English, in turn, converted Santo Christov
 to haue had a match between her and her son and by many perswasions did seeke to withdraw her from being a Nun, saying in this manner What Mar-garet, thou art young and faire, the world no doubt hath better fortune for thee whereby thou maist leaue an honourable issue behind thee, in whom thou mayst liue after death. These and many other reasons did they alledge vnto her, but all in vaine she making this reply, Who knowes not that this world giueth the pleasure of an houre, but the sorrow of many daies ? for it paieth euer that which it promiseth, which is nothing else but con-tinuall trouble and vexation of the minde. Do you think, if I had the offer and choice of the mightiest Princes of Christendom, that I could match my selfe better then to my Lord Jesus ? No, no, hee is my husband, to whom I yeeld my selfe both body and soule, giuing to him my heart, my loue and my most firme affections I haue ouerlong loued this vile world therefore I beseech you farther disswade me not. When her friends by no meanes could alter her opinion, the matter was made knowne to his Maiestie, who against the time that she should be receiued into the Monasterie, came to Glocester with most part of his Nobilitie, to honour her action with his princely presence. All things being therefore prepared, the young Lady was in most princely-wise attired in a gowne of pure white sattin, her kirtle of the same, embroidered with gold about the skirts in most curious sort, her head w
BK. III. AN ENGLISH  MY banks they are furnished with bees, Whose murmur invites one to sleep My grottos are shaded with trees, And my hills are white-over with sheep. I seldom have met with a loss, Such health do my fountains bestow My fountains all bordered with moss, Where the hare-bells and violets grow. Not a pine in my grove is there seen, But with tendrils of woodbine is bound Not a beech's more beautiful green, But a sweet-briar entwines it around. Not my fields in the prime of the year More charms than my cattle unfold Not a brook that is limpid and clear, But it glitters with fishes of gold. One would think she might like to retire To the bower I have laboured to rear Not a shrub that I heard her admire, But I hasted and planted it there. O how sudden the jessamine strove With the lilac to render it gay ! Already it calls for my love To prune the wild branches away. From the plains, from the woodlands, and groves, What strains of wild melody flow ! How the nightingales warble their loves, From thickets of roses that blow ! And when her bright form shall appear, Each bird shall harmoniously join In a concert so soft and so clear, As@-@she may not be fond to resign. From A Pastoral Ballad, in four parts, Absence,  Disappointment. Written in 173
 Miles that he would watch whilst that they slept, and call them if the head speake. Feare not, good master said Miles I will not sleepe, but harken and attend upon the head, and if it doe chance to speake, I will call you therefore I pray take you both your rests and let mee alone for watching this head. After Fryer Bacon had given him a great charge the second time Fryer Bungy and he went to sleepe, and Miles, alone to watch the brasen head Miles, to keepe him from sleeping, got a tabor and pipe, and being merry disposed, sung this song to a Northren tune OF CAM'ST THOU NOT FROM NEW-CASTLE. To couple is a custome, all things thereto agree Why should not I then love ? since love to all is free. But Ile have one that's pretty, her cheekes of scarlet die, For to hreed my delight, when that I ligge her by. Though vertue be a dowry, yet Ile chuse money store If my love prove untrue, with that I can get more. The faire is oft unconstant, the blacke is often proud. Ile chuse a lovely browne, come fidler scrape thy crow
 victories, he did beseige a strong towne and lay before it full three moneths, without doing to the towne any great damage, but rather received the hurt him-selfe. This did so vexe the King, that he sought to take it in any way, either by policy or strength to this intent hee made proclamation, that whosoever could de-liver this towne into his hand, hee should have for his paines ten thousand crownes truely paid. This was proclaimed, but there was none found that would under-take it. At length the newes did come into England of this great reward that was promised. Fryer Bacon hearing of it, went into France, and being admitted to the kings presence, hee thus spake unto him Your maiestie I am sure hath not quite forgot your poore sub-ject Bacon, the love that you shewed to mee being last in your presence, hath drawn mee for to leave my countrey, and my studies, to doe your maiestis service I beseech your grace, to command mee so farre as my poore art or life may doe you pleasure. The king thanked him for his love, but told him, that hee had now more need of armes than art, and wanted brave souldiers more than learned schollers. Fryer Bacon answered, Your grace saith well but let mee under correction tell you, that art oftentimes doth those things that are impossible to armes, which I will make good in some few examples. I will speak onely of things performed by art and nature, wherein shall be nothing magical and first by the figuration of art, there may be made instruments of navigation witho
 cheer of vigour born The thoughtless day, the easy night, The spirits pure, the slumbers light, That fly the approach of morn. Alas ! regardless of their doom, The little victims play ! No sense have they of ills to come, Nor care beyond to-day Yet see how all around 'em wait The ministers of human fate, And black Misfortune's baleful train. Ah, show them where in ambush stand, To seize their prey, the murderous band ! Ah, tell them, they are men ! These shall the fury Passions tear, The vultures of the mind, Disdainful Anger, pallid Fear, And Shame that skulks behind Or pining Love shall waste their youth, Or Jealousy with rankling tooth, That inly gnaws the secret heart, And Envy wan, and faded Care, Grim-visaged comfortless Despair, And Sorrow's piercing dart. Ambition this shall tempt to rise, Then whirl the wretch from high, To bitter Scorn a sacrifice, And grinning Infamy. The stings of Falsehood those shall try, And hard Unkindness' altered eye, That mocks the tear it forced to flow And keen Remorse with blood defile
 they all vanished away in their order as they came in. Thus feasted he two of their sences then waved he his wand agaiue, and there was another kind of musicke heard, and whilest it was playing, there was sodainly before them a table richly covered with all sorts of deli-cates then desired he the king and queene to taste of some certaine rare fruits that were on the table, which they and the nobles there present did, and were very highly pleased with the taste they being satisfied, all vanished away on the sodaine. Then waved he his wand againe, and sodainly there was such a smell, as if all the rich perfumes in the whole world had bin there pre-pared in the best manner that art could set them out whilst hee feasted thus their smelling, he waved his wand againe, and their came divers nations in sundry habits as Russians, Polanders, Indians, Armenians all bringing sundry kinds of furres, such as their countries yeelded all which they presented to the king and queene these furres were so soft in the touch, that they highly pleased all those that handled them, then after some odde fantasticke dances after their countrey manner they vanished away then asked Fryer Bacon the king's majesty, if that hee desired any more of his skill ? the king answered that hee was fully satisfied for that time, and that hee onely now thought of something that hee might bestow on him, that might partly satisfie the kindnesse that hee had received. Fryer Bacon said, that hee desired nothing so much as his maiesties love, and if that he might be assured of that, hee would thinke himselfe happy in it for that said the king be th
CLXVIII. NIGHT. THE sun grew low and left the skies, Put down, some write, by ladies' eyes. The moon pulled off her veil of light That hides her face by day from sight Mysterious veil, of brightness made That's both her lustre and her shade ! , And in the lantern of the night With shining horns hung out her light For darkness is the proper sphere Where all false glories use to appear. The twinkling stars began to muster, And glitter with their borrowed lustre, While sleep the wearied world relieved, By counterfeiting death revived. -@Butler, Hudibras, Part II. CLXIX. YE GENTLEMEN OF ENGLAND. YE gentlemen of England That live at home at ease, Ah ! little do you think upon The dangers of the seas. Give ear unto the mariners, And they will plainly show All the cares and the fears When the stormy winds do blow. If enemies oppose us When England is at war With any foreign nation, We fear not wound or scar Campbell admired this song so much that he determined to write new words for the music and so this was the origin of his lyric Ye Mariners of Englan
 speech@-@name a great crag in honor of the unknowable, call-ing it, whatever the name may mean or portend, Mollibeday Rock. The figure of the island resembles an equilateral triangle, its sides facing the east, northwest, and southeast, each about seven miles in length. The coast is very irregular, being deeply indented by bays and inlets, in some of which there are good anchorages and careening places. A high ridge of table-land extends through the island from north to south, whereof the loftiest peaks are nearly fourteen hun-dred feet in height. A few miles to the east of the westernmost point of St. Martin, Marigot Baie makes into the shore, and at the head of it, hiding from the sea, is the little town of Marigot, the capital of the French part of the island. About twelve miles to the southeast of St. Martin lies St. Bar-tholomew, or St. Bart's as it is commonly called, an island that was colonized by the French in 1650. Later it came into the possession of the Swedes, to which historic fact the name of Gustavia Gustaf , its capital, in some sort bears testimony. We did not approach St. Bart's near enough to gain any idea of its fertility or of the amount of its surface under cultivation, or of the situations of its towns and set-tlements. St. Bartholomew is said to be peopled by men of no con-siderable enterprise, and the life of its inhabitants is peace@ful, not to say indolent. There is little to disturb the quiet of society, such so-ciety as ma@y be found in a population of four thousand, and we may well believe that, lying as it does out of the direct line of travel, hav-ing no commerce of importance, and a soil, as compared with that of other islands, unproductive, life in this community is one eternal round of dulness therefore, as Davies the historian sa@id of it more than two hundred years ago, so may it with equal truth be written in our day, to wit Such as are enclined to solitude cannot dispose themselves to a fitter place for it than this is. We sailed between St. Eustatius or Statia and Saba, Dutch islands both of them, rising out of the sea in majestic cones that of Statia falling away on its northern side into a broken plain of meado
 many a tangled spray, All heart-broke, I heard her say ' Oh my children ! do they cry, Do they hear their father sigh ? Now they look abroad to see, Now return and weep for me.' Pitying, I dropped a tear But I saw a glow-worm near, Who replied, ' What wailing wight Calls the watchman of the night ? I am set to light the ground, While the beetle goes his round Follow now the beetle's hum Little wanderer, hie thee home ! ' -Blake. CCLXXIII. TIME AND SORROW. O TIME ! who know'st a lenient hand to lay Softest on Sorrow's wound, and slowly thence Lulling to sad repose the weary sense The faint pang stealest unperceived away On thee I rest my only hope at last, And think, when thou hast dried the bitter tear That flows in vain o'er all my soul held dear, I may look back on every sorrow past, And meet life's peaceful evening with a smile@-As some lone bird, at day's departing hour, Sings in the sunbeam, of the transient shower Forgetful, though its wings are wet the while -Yet ah ! how much must that poor heart endure, Which hopes from thee, and thee alone, a cure ! -@ had just entered my seventeenth year when the sonnets of Mr. Bowles, twenty in number and just then published in a quarto pamphlet, were first made known to me.@... I had bew@ildered myself in meta-physical and theological controversy but from this I was auspicious
 SWEET AUBURN. SWEET Auburn ! loveliest village of the plain, Where health and plenty cheered the labouring swain, Where smiling spring its earliest visit paid, And parting summer's lingering blooms delayed Seats of my youth, when every sport could please, Dear lovely bowers of innocence and ease, How often have I loitered o'er thy green, Where humble happiness endeared each scene ! How often have I paused on every charm, The sheltered cot, the cultivated farm, The never-failing brook, the busy mill, The decent church that topped the neighbouring hill, The hawthorn bush, with seats beneath the shade, For talking age and whispering lovers made ! How often have I blessed the coming day, When toil remitting lent its turn to play, And all the village train, from labour free, Led up their sports beneath the spreading tree, While many a pastime circled in the shade, The young contending as the old surveyed And many a gambol frolicked o'er the ground, And sleights of art and feats of strength went round And still, as each repeated pleasure tired, Succeeding sports the mirthful band inspired These were thy charms, sweet village ! sports like these, With sweet succession, taught e'en toil to please These round thy bowers their cheerful influence shed These were thy charms@-@but all these charms are fled. In all my wanderings round this world of care, In all my griefs@-@and God has given my share@-I still had hopes, my latest hours to crown, Amidst these humble bowers to lay me dow
 transport in her bosom grew, When first the Horse appeared in view@! ' Let me,' said she, ' your back ascend, And owe my safety to a friend. You know my feet betray my flight To friendship every burden's light.' The Horse replied 1 Poor honest Puss, It grieves my heart to see thee thus Be comforted relief is near, For all your friends are in the rear.' She next the stately Bull implored, And thus replied the mighty lord ' Since every beast alive can tell That I sincerely wish you well, I may, without offence, pretend To take the freedom of a friend. Love calls me hence a favourite cow Expects me near yon barley-mow And when a lady's in the case, You know, all other things give place. To leave you thus might seem unkind But see, the Goat is just behind.' The Goat remarked her pulse was high, Her languid head, her heavy eye ' My back,' says he, ' may do you harm The Sheep's at hand, and wool is warm '. The Sheep was feeble, and complained His sides a load of wool sustained Said he was slow, confessed his fears, For hounds eat sheep as well as hares. She now the trotting Calf addressed, To save from death a friend distressed. ' Shall I,' says he, ' of tender age, In this important care engage
 of vantage or to enter the cosey room by main force, in rage of disappointment the southeaster slammed my father's iron shutters in his face @and so put an end to his meteorological observations, for that morning at least. The good man turned from the darkened window and left the room, adding, as he bade me good-morning What a day to go to sea ! What a day, indeed ! What a day to go anywhere under the sky worst of all, to go to sea. It was bad enough to be compelled to stir out-of-doors on such a day, or, for that matter even, to move about in-doors beyond the comfortable influence of a blazing hearth. Without pretending to be weatherwise, although I can make good my claim to be considered the son of a weather-prophet of acknowl-edged accuracy in making predictions, by aid of a meteorological shoulder and well-tested weather-glass, I could see with half an eye that the Doctor would inevitably catch it, whatever it was or from whichever way it blew, long before he came half-way to Sandy Hook, or by whatever other course he might make bold to venture seaward that April day. In due time, having satisfied my appetite, leisurely looking over the morning papers meanwhile, I rose from the breakfast-table, entertain-ing even at that late hour, no more idea of going to sea than I have, as I sit writing these words, of taking my departure forthwith, ere this ink be dry, to the land which lies east of the moon and west of the sun, indeed, I may say@-@and with no intent to exaggerate@-@to the Cannibal Islands themselves. Shortly before noon the Doctor, who had prescribed for himself that most agreeable of all remedies, to wit, rest and a sea-voyage, whose preparations to follow his own advice, to take what he would give, I was watching with envious interest, suddenly, without pausing in the operation of packing his trunk, startled me by asking the ques-tion How would you like to go to the Caribbean Islands @? The inquiry smacked of suggestion and contained a pleasant flav
 and read for thou canst read the lay Graved on the stone beneath yon aged thorn.' THE EPITAPH Here rests his head upon the lap of Earth A Youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown. Fair Science frowned not on his humble birth, And Melancholy marked him for her own. Large was his bounty, and his soul sincere, Heaven did a recompense as largely send He gave to Misery all he had, a tear, He gained from Heaven 'twas all he wished a friend. No farther seek his merits to disclose, Or draw his frailties from their dread abode, There they alike in trembling hope repose, The bosom of his father and his God. -@Gray. CCXLIII. EXTRACTS FROM ENTHUSIASMS.† WHAT is enthusiasm ? What can it be, But thought enkindled to an high degree ? That may, whatever be its ruling turn, Right, or not right, with equal ardour burn. It must be therefore various in its  the original MS. there was the following stanza before the epitaph -' There scattered oft, the earliest of the year, By hands unseen, are showers of violets found The red-breast loves to build and warble there, And little footsteps lightly print the ground '. It is printed in brackets in the fourth edition, 1751, and omitted from 1753. † Out of 406 line
 if but yesterday departed, Thou too art gone before but why, O'er ripe fruit, seasonably gathered, Should frail survivors heave a sigh ? e Mourn rather for that holy spirit, Sweet as the spring, as ocean deep For her who, ere her summer faded, Has sunk into a breathless sleep. f No more of old romantic sorrows, For slaughtered Youth or lovelorn Maid ! With sharper grief is Yarrow smitten, And Ettrick mourns with her their Poet dead. -@Wordsworth. CCCLXXVII. TO SOUTHEY. THE dance of youth, O Southey, runs not round, But closes at the bottom of the room, Amid the falling dust and deepening gloom, Where the weary sit them down, And Beauty, too, unbraids, and waits a lovelier crown. We hurry to the river we must cross, And swifter downward every footstep wends Happy, who reach it ere they count the loss Of half their faculties and half their friends. -@Landor. CCCLXXVIII. THE STREAM THAT HURRIES BY. THE stream that hurries by yon fixèd shore Returns no more The wind that dries at morn yon dewy lawn Breathes, and is  died 3rd F@eb., 1832. f Mrs. Hemans died 16th May, 1835. These verses were first published in the Cornhill Magazine, 187
 gate the bone alone, and laye and gnewe it for he was sore enhongred themperour seynge that Robert was so sore enhongred he caste to an other dogge an hole lofe, but Robert toke it from hym and brake an two peces and gaue the dogge half, for bycause he gate it for the dogges sake, themperour seynge this lough there at and sayd to his seruauntes we haue here nowe the moste foolysshe fole, and the verayst nedy that euer I sawe, for he taketh the dogges mete from them, and eteth it himself, ther by a man may perfytely knowe that he is a natural fole all that were in the hall gaue the dogges as moche mete as they might ete, to thentent that Robert myght fyll his belye with them, and whan he had fylled his belly whyle he rose up and walked up and downe in the hall with a staffe in his hande, smytynge upon stoles and benches lyke as and yf he had ben a very innocent fole. And thus walkynge he loked on euery syde, and sawe a dore where men wente in to a fayre gardyne in the whiche gardyne there stode a fayre fontayne or well, and theder went Robert to drynke, for he was euyll a thurst, and whan nyght came on Robert folowed the forsayd dogge where soo euer he wente, the whiche was accustomed to lye euery nyght under a steyre, and there he wente and layde him downe and Robert followed hym under the steyre and layde hym downe by the dogge, themperour seynge this, had compassyon on Robert and commaunded that men sholde bere hym a bedde, that he myghte lye there upon to sle
 AT DOVER CLIFFS. ON these white cliffs, that, calm above the flood, Uplift their shadowing heads, and, at their feet, Scarce hear the surge that has for ages beat, Sure many a lonely wanderer has stood And, whilst the lifted murmur met his ear, And o'er the distant billows the still eve Sailed slow, has thought of all his heart must leave To-morrow of the friends he loved most dear Of social scenes, from which he wept to part But if, like me, he knew how fruitless all The thoughts that would full fain the past recall, Soon would he quell the risings of his heart, And brave the wild winds and unhearing tide,@-The world his country, and his God his guide.  HOPE. AS one who, long by wasting sickness worn, Weary has watched the lingering night, and heard Heartless the carol of the matin bird Salute his lonely porch, now first at morn Goes forth, leaving his melancholy bed He the green slope and level meadow views, Delightful bathed with slow-ascending dews Or marks the clouds, that o'er the mountain's head In varying forms fantastic wander white Or turns his ear to every random song, Heard the green river's winding marge along, The whilst each sense is steeped in still delight With such delight, o'er all my heart I feel, Sweet Hope ! thy fragrance pure and healing incense steal !  chiefly by the genial influence of a style of poetry, so tender and yet so manly, so natural and real, and yet so dignified and harmonious as the sonnets of Mr. Bowles.'@-@Coleridg
 ON THE MUSE OF POETRY.CXXVII. ON THE MUSE OF POETRY. IN my former days of bliss, Her divine skill taught me this, That from everything I saw, I could some invention draw, And raise pleasure to her height Through the meanest object's sight By the murmur of a spring, Or the least bough's rustling, By a daisy whose leaves spread Shut when Titan goes to bed, Or a shady bush or tree, She could more infuse in me Than all Nature's beauties can In some other wiser man. By her help I also now Make this churlish place allow Some things that may sweeten gladness In the very gall of sadness. The dull loneness, the black shade That these hanging vaults have made, The strange music of the waves Beating on these hollow caves, This black den which rocks emboss, Overgrown with eldest moss, The rude portals that give light More to terror than delight, This my chamber of neglect Walled about with disrespect, From all these and this dull air, A fit object for despair, She hath taught me, by her might, To draw comfort and deligh
 my ioy, I die for thy loue, And now I heare say that thou dost remoue And therefore, Ienny, I pray thee recite, Where shall I meete thee soone at night. For why, with my Master no more will I stay, But for thy loue I will runne away O Ienny, Ienny, thou puttest me to paine, That thou no longer wilt here remaine. I will weare out my shooes of Neats-leather, But thou and I will meete together, And in spight of Fortune, Rat, or Mouse, We will dwell together in one house. For who doth not esteeme of thee, Shall haue no seruice done of me Therefore good Ienny haue a care, To meete poore Fragment at the faire. Now alas, good soule quoth Ienny I thinke he be the kindest young man in the world. The rest answer-ed, that he seemed no lesse, and surely it appeareth that he is a pretty witty fellow, quoth one of them, how finely hee hath written his letter in rime, trust me, I will giue you a good thing, and let me haue a copy of it to send to my sweet-heart that you shall with all my heart and so comming to the faire, they tooke vp their standing. Within a while after, goodwife Gray of Glocester came thither to store her selfe of diuers commoditie
 the pope and the emperour her fader to the fountayne where Robert was wonte to arme and unarme hym, and there she toke out the spere heed from bytwene the two stones where that Robert had hydde it, and than she caused the spere for to be brought forth, where of the heed was broken, whiche was lyghtely brought to her, and that heed and the spere joynde togyder in one as cloes as thoughe they hadde not be broken, than sayd the mayde to the pope, we have hadde thre tymes vyctorye by his noble valyaunce ayenst the myscredaunte Sarasyns, for I haue thre tymes sene his horse and harnays wherwith he hath thre tymes armed and unarmed hym, but I can not tell who brought hym horse and harnays, nor unto w@hom he delyuered it, but I knowe well that whan he hadde this done he layde hymselfe downe by the dogges and the may den sayd unto the emperoure her fader in this wyse, This is he that hathe saued youre landes and youre honoure, and gate you vyctorye of the Hethen houndes the Sarasyns, wherfore ye ought of deute to rewarde hym, and yf it please you we wyll go all to hym and speke with hym than wente they for the fole, the emperour and the doughter with all the lordes and ladyes unto Robert, whome they founde lyenge among dogges, they folowed hym and dyde hym reuerence, but Robert answered them not. How the heremyte found Robert, and commaunded hym to speke, saynge to hym, that his penaunce was fulle done and his synnes forgyuen. THE emperour spake to Robert and said, I praye you 49 
 was not of an age, but for all time ! And all the Muses still were in their prime, When, like Apollo, he came forth to warm Our ears, or like a Mercury to charm ! Nature herself was proud of his designs, And joyed to wear the dressing of his lines, Which were so richly spun, and woven so fit, As, since, she will vouchsafe no other wit. The merry Greek, tart Aristophanes, Neat Terence, witty Plautus, now not please But antiquated and deserted lie, As they were not of Nature's family. Yet must I not give Nature all thy Art, My gentle Shakspeare, must enjoy a part. For though the poet's matter nature be, His art doth give the fashion and that he Who casts to write a living line, must sweat Such as thine are and strike the second heat Upon the Muses' anvil, turn the same, And himself with it, that he thinks to frame Or for the laurel he may gain a scorn For a good poet's made, as well as born. And such wert thou ! Look, how the father's face Lives in his issue, even so the race Of Shakspeare's mind and manners brightly shines In his well turnèd and true filèd lines, In each of which he seems to shake a lance, As brandished at the eyes of ignorance. Sweet Swan of Avon ! what a sight it were To see thee in our waters yet appear, And make those flights upon the banks of Thames, That so did take Eliza and our James ! 
 as men callen daysyes in her toun. To hem have I so great affeccioun, As I seyde erst, whan comen is the May, That, in my bed ther daweth me no day, That I nam up and walkyng in the mede, To seen this floure ayein the sonnë sprede, Whan it up ryseth erly by the morwe That blisful sight softeneth al my sorwe, So glad am I, whan that I have presence Of it, to doon it allë reverence, As she that is of alle floures flour, Fulfillëd of al vertue and honour, And ever ilike faire, and fressh of hewe. And I love it, and ever ylike newe, And ever shal, til that myn hertë dye Al swere I nat of this I wol nat lye, Ther lovedë no wight hotter in his lyve. And, whan that hit ys eve, I rennë blyve, As sone as ever the sonnë gynneth weste, To seen this flour, how it wol go to reste, For fere of nyght, so hateth she derknesse ! Hire chere is pleynly sprad in the brightnesse Of the sonn@ë, for ther yt wol unclose. Allas, that I ne had Englyssh, ryme, or prose, Suffisant this flour to preyse aryght@! But helpeth, ye that han konnyng and myght, Ye lovers, that kan make of sentement In this case oghten ye be diligent, To forthren me somwhat in my labour, Whethir ye ben with the leef or with the flour, For wel I wot, that ye han herbiforn Of makynge ropen, and lad awey the corn And I come after, glenyng here and there, And am ful glad yf I may fynde an e
 yet more kingly. This attracts the soul, Governs the inner man, the nobler part That other o'er the body only reigns, And oft by force, -@which to a generous mind So reigning can be no sincere delight. Besides, to give a kingdom hath been thought Greater and nobler done, and to lay down Far more magnanimous than to assume. Riches are needless, then, both for themselves And for thy reason why they should be sought,@-To gain a sceptre oftest better missed. -@Paradise Regained, ii. 453-486. CLXXXI. TRUE AND FALSE GLORY. THOU neither dost persuade me to seek wealth For empire's sake, nor empire to affect For glory's sake, by all thy argument. For what is glory but the blaze of fame, The people's praise, if always praise unmixed ? And what the people but a herd confused, A miscellaneous rabble, who extol @@@extol Things vulgar, and well-weighed scarce worth  praise and they admire they know not what, And know not whom, but as one leads the other And what delight to be by such extolled, To live upon their tongues, and be their talk Of whom to be dispraised were no small praise@-His lot who dares be singularly good ? The intelligent among them and the wise Are few, and glory scarce of few is raised. This is true glory and renown@-@when God, Looking on the earth, with approbation marks The just man, and divulges him through Heav
Things That's  The Bailiffs are coming. What a region of pleasure is this world of ours, And yet with its sweets there's a great many sours If you wish to be pleasant, I mean to infer, A something@ unpleasant is safe to occur. Yet some folks that find things go pleasant and free, Imagine that nothing unpleasant can be, So for their information, if pleasant, a few, @Things that's unpleasant I'll tell them and you. So you that are free from such pleasures@ as t@hese, With pleasure you ought to go down on your knees, @@And pity poor devils-@there's plenty, I say, That are born to these pleasant things every day. Now it's very unpleasant to lose, you'll suppose, @Your bandanna, when you've a cold in your nose-It's very unpleasant to have tender feet Or to run up against a mad dog in the street It's very unpleasant to find out, alas ! The gold ehain you bought turns out to he brass It's very unpleasant-@it is, I'll be bound-To come home and find your house burnt down to the ground. It's very unpleasant to treat to the fair A young girl, who gives you the slip while you're there-@@@It's very unpleasant-@it is, 'pon my life@-To have your ears pull'd now and then by your wife. It's very unpleasant@-@I think so, don't you ? To be asked for the rent when you haven't a screw, It's very unpleasant to meet with a spark, Who knocks in the crown of your hat for a lark. It's very unpleasant-@I'm blessed if it aint, To rub your best togs 'gainst a post wet with paint, It's very unpleasant to have, by the bye, The end of a butcher's tray poked in your eye. It's very unpleasant to come from the play@, And find all your goods and your wife cut away It's very unpleasant, you all must surmise, @To be whopped in the street, by a boy half your size @@It's very unpleasant to feel very ill, Or to find your name scratched from a rich uncle's will It's very unpleasant to spend cash, you know, On bear's grease, and c@n't get your whiskers to grow. It's very unpleasant@-@it is, goodness knows@ !-While bathing to see a friend bolt with your clothes@-It's very unpleasant, while dancing, to find That your breeches suddenly burst out behind. It's very unpleasant to be forced to pawn, Or to have a chap tread on your favourite corn@-It's very unpleasant in a cook shop to gaze, When you haven't had grub for a couple of days. 'Twill be pleasant to me, that's the aim I'd in view, If my unpleasant things have been pleasant to you If so, then allow me to tell every one, I'll be just as unpleasant the next time I come.  al  a rum 'un to shoot-Now I've got a rummyer one you'll agree, So just pay attention, and listen to me, @@It's a telescope-@one of such a wonderful pow'r, If you was in Rome, you could spy out the Tow'r You don't doubt for a moment, I fervently hope @The wonderful strength of my rare telescope-@@My wonderful powerful rare telescope. Mr. Herschell he had one that cut a great shine-@Lor' bless you ! bis wasn't a patch upon mine @Though this you could see, on a clear afternoon, A scratch on the nose of the Man in the moon Into every country your eye it might search, You can see what's o'clock by St. Petersburg@h Church. You don't, c. You can see over Italy, Holland, and France-America, too, you can spy at a glance And another thing proves that it's very wea@@k, It brings folks so near, you can hear 'em all speak And if you can get the right focus at all, Yoe can actually see through a twenty-inc@h wall. You don't, @@c. You can twig Nova Scotia-@you can, 'pon my soul Besides, you can see where they stuck the North Pole, When your wife out of town you can just take a sight, And see if she's doing the thing wot is right, And when I've improv'd it, mean to see pat, To the end of the world, nd a mile beyond that. You don't c What makes it more valuable, too, only mark, Like a cat, you can see just as well in the dark, No matter how foggy the weather may be, You can actually count every fish in the sea And what's more surprising, I speak from my heart You can see round the corners as stright as a dart You don't, c T'other day you must know that I lent it to one, Who was silly enough for to quis at the sun He drew it so near 'twas a shucking sad case For it hurn't off his arms, and best part of his face@ And though Ive not tried it, but graother sed, 'Twould actually draw the teeth out of your head You don't c Bobby Peel of my telescope heard t'other day, So he sent me a very polite note to say, If I'd bring it to Downing Street he'd he a buyer, Or he'd give me ten thousand a-year for the hire, For he said that the Treasure warn't very fll, So he'd draw the full pockets of old Johnny Bull,@@@@ You don't, @@c. @@@@@@Jackson and Son, late J. Russell, Printers, Moor-street, Birmingha
 less content himself to make it like The ideas and the images which lie In his own fancy, or his memory. No, he before his sight must place The natural and living face The real object must command Each judgment of his eye, and motion of his hand. From these and all long errors of the way, In which our wandering predecessors went, And, like the old Hebrews, many years did stray In deserts but of small extent, Bacon, like Moses, led us forth at last. The barren wilderness he past, Did on the very border stand Of the blest promised land, And from the mountain's top of his exalted wit, Saw it himself, and showed us it. But life did never to one man allow Time to discover worlds, and conquer too Nor can so short a line sufficient be To fathom the vast depths of Nature's sea The work he did we ought to admire, And were unjust if we should more require From his few years, divided 'twixt the excess Of low affliction and high happiness. For who on things remote can fix his sight, That's always in a triumph, or a fight ? -@Cowl
 up I rose three houres after twelve, About the springing of the gladsome day. And on I put my gear and mine array, And to a pleasant grove I gan to pass, Long or the bright sun uprisen was In which were oakes great, straight as a line, Under the which the grass so fresh of hue Was newly sprung, and an eight foot or nine Every tree well from his fellow grew, With branches broad, laden with leaves new, That springen out agen the sonne sheen, Some very red, and some a glad light green. Which, as me thought, was a right pleasant sight And eke the burdís songís for to hear, Would have rejoiced any earthly wight, And I, that couthe not yet in no manere Hearen the nightingale of all the year, Full busily hearkened with heart and ear If I her voice perceive could anywhere. And at the last a path of little brede I found, that greatly had not used be For it forgrowen was with grass and weed, That well unneath a wighte might it see. Thought I, this path some whider go'th parde ! And so I followed till it me brought To a right pleasant herbir well ywrought That benched was, and with turves new Freshly turved, whereof the greene grass So small, so thick, so soft, so fresh of hue, That most like to green wool, wot I, it was The hedge also that yeden in compass, And closed in alle the green herbere With sycamore was set and eglater
 head to speake, by the which hee would have walled England about with Brasse. FRYER BACON reading one day of the many conquests of England, bethought himselfe how he might keepe it hereafter from the like conquests, and so make himselfe famous hereafter to all posterities. This after great study hee found could be no way so well done as one@@ which was to make a head of brasse, and if he could make this head to speake and heare it when it speakes then might hee be able to wall all England about with brasse. To this purpose hee got one Fryer Bungey to assist him, who was a great scholler and a magician, but not to bee compared to Fryer Bacon these two with great study and paines so framed a head of brasse, that in the inward parts thereof there was all things like as in a naturall mans head this being done, they were as farre from perfection of the worke as they were before, for they knew not how to give those parts that they had made motion, without w@hich it was impossible that it should speake many bookes they read, but yet could not finde out any hope of what they sought, that at the last they concluded to raise a spirit, and to know of him that which they could not attaine to by their owne studies. To do this they prepared all things ready and went one evening to a wood thereby, and after many ceremonies used, they spake the words of coniura-tion, which the Devill straight obeyed and appear
 whose chief devotion lies In odd perverse antipathies In falling out with that or this, And finding somewhat still amiss More peevish, cross, and splenetic, Than dog distraught or monkey sick That with more care keep holiday The wrong, than others the right way Compound for sins they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to. Still so perverse and opposite, As if they worshipped God for spite The self-same thing the ' will abhor One way, and long another for Free-will they one way disavow, Another, nothing else allow All piety consists therein In them, in. other men all sin Rather than fail, they will defy That which they love most tenderly Quarrel with minced pies, and disparage Their best and dearest friend, plum-porridge Fat pig and goose itself oppose, And blaspheme custard through the nose. The apostles of this fierce religion, Like Mahomet's, were ass and widgeon, To whom our knight, by fast instinct Of wit and temper, was so linked, As if hypocrisy and nonsense Had got th' advowson of his conscience. -@ ass is the milkwhite beast, called Alborach, on which Maho-met rode to heaven and the widgeon, or pigeon, he had trained to pick seeds out of his ear so that it might be thought that it was communicating an inspired message to hi
 OPENING LINES OF THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN.L prayer The Dane and Swede roused up by fierce alarms Bless the wise conduct of her pious arms Soon as her fleets appear their terrors cease, And all the northern world lies hushed in peace. 1701. -@From Addison's Letter from Italy. CCIII. OPENING LINES OF THE TRUE-BORN ENGLISHMAN. WHEREVER God erects a house of prayer The devil always builds a chapel there And 'twill be found, upon examination, The latter has the largest congregation For ever since he first debauched the mind He made a perfect conquest of mankind. With uniformity of service, he Reigns with a general aristocracy. No nonconforming sects disturb his reign, For of his yoke there's very few complain He knows the genius and the inclination, And matches proper sins for ever ' nation. He needs no standing army government He always rules us by our own consent His laws are easy, and his gentle sway Makes it exceeding pleasant to obey. The list of his vice-gerents and commanders Outdoes your Caesars or your Alexanders They never fail of his infernal aid, And he's as certain ne'er to be betrayed. Through all the world they spread his vast command, And Death's eternal empire is maintained. -@Defo
 equal to all things, for all things unfit, Too nice for a statesman, too proud for a wit For a patriot too cool for a drudge disobedient And too fond of the right to pursue the expedient. In short, 'twas his fate, unemployed, or in place, sir, To eat mutton cold, and cut blocks with a razor. . . Here lies David Garrick, describe him who can, An abridgment of all that was pleasant in man As an actor, confessed without rival to shine As a wit, if not first, in the very first line Yet, with talents like these, and an excellent heart, The man had his failings, a dupe to his art, Like an ill-judging beauty, his colours he spread, And beplastered with rouge his own natural red. On the stage he was natural, simple, affecting 'Twas only that when he was off he was acting. With no reason on earth to go out of his way, He turned and he varied full ten times a day Though secure of our hearts, yet confoundedly sick, If they were not his own by finessing and trick He cast off his friends, as a huntsman his pack, For he knew when he pleased he could whistle them back. Of praise a mere glutton, he swallowed what came, And the puff of a dunce he mistook it for fame Till his relish grown callous, almost to disease, Who peppered the highest, was surest to please. But let us be candid, and speak out our mind, If dunces applauded, he paid them in kind. Ye Kenricks, ye Kellys, and Woodfalls † so grave, What a commerce was yours, while you got and you gave  Kelly, author of False Delicacy, etc. Died 1777. † William Woodfall, printer of the Morning Chronicle. Died 180
 was the name of a boat. Don't forget Aleck, sir ! Cush-ions in dis boat. Do yo' washin'. '@Member Lucy. Whether Lucy was a boat or a washerwoman I remain to this day in blissful ig-norance. I'se waitin' for yer, captain. Here's yo' bes' figs. I learned afterward that figs signified bananas@-@fig-bananas. Take yo' asho' jus' now. And so on. By a shake of my head I diverted the deluge of words from myself and my affairs, and the fickle crowd dedicated their remarks to one another. Massa don' wan' yo' boat. He won't trust hisself wid you. He told you to go away. I knock you in de water. Shut you @mouf, you nigga. Here, as elsewhere, nigger was employed as a term of reproach among negroes. In the scramble and mimic battle oars were broken, rudders became unshipped and drif@ted aw@ay@ with the tide, boatmen lost their hats, fruit-sellers their fruits, curiosities were spilled into the sea, and I saw one great specimen of coral at least return with a splash to the ocean-depths that bore it. The darkies, roaring like wild beasts, seemed ready, or ever we came to the bottom of the ship's ladder, to rend us in pieces and take us ashore piecemeal. By and by, exhausted by long-continued frantic struggling, as well as by the wear and tear of the lungs and throats, after the storm and war of words there came a great and grateful calm of silence. In the meantime, a large gang of stevedores had boarded the ship, the hatches fore and aft were taken off, and steam-winches were set a-running. The work of breaking out and discharging cargo was going on with such wonderful rapidity that it took but little time to load six or seven lighters lying alongside, to start them shoreward, while their places were promptly taken by others in readiness to be made fast to the ship. As soon as storage-room was made below by removing such of the cargo as happened to be consigned to St. Kitt's, a quantity of freight destined to other ports was brought to the Barracouta from shore. In this manner, the operations of loading and unloading went on simultaneously and with remarkable activity throughout the live-long day until late in the evening. During our trip down the islan
 crowded conquest keeps, Beneath her palm here sad Judea weeps. Now scantier limits the proud arch confine, And scarce are seen the prostrate Nile or Rhine A small Euphrates through the piece is rolled, And little eagles wave their wings in gold. The medal, faithful to its charge of fame, Through climes and ages bears each form and name In one short view, subjected to our eye, Gods, emperors, heroes, sages, beauties, lie. With sharpened sight pale antiquaries pore, The inscription value, but the rust adore. This the blue varnish, that the green endears, The sacred rust of twice ten hundred years ! To gain Pescennius one employs his schemes, One grasps a Cecrops in ecstatic dreams. Poor Vadius, long with learned spleen devoured, Can taste no pleasure since his shield was scoured And Curio, restless by the fair one's side, Sighs for an Otho, and neglects his bride. Theirs is the vanity, the learning thine Touched by thy hand again Rome's glories shine Her gods and godlike heroes rise to view, And all her faded garlands bloom anew, Nor blush these studies thy regard engage, These pleased the fathers of poetic rage The verse and sculpture bore an equal part, And art reflected images to art. Oh, when shall Britain, conscious of her claim, Stand emulous of Greek and Roman fame ? In living medals see her wars enrolled, And vanquished realms supply recording gold ? Here, rising bold, the patriot's honest face There warriors frowning in historic bras
 wealth to explore, Search not his bottom but survey his shore, O'er which he kindly spreads his spacious wing And hatches plenty for the ensuing spring, Nor then destroys it with too fond a stay, Like mothers which their infants overlay Nor with a sudden and impetuous wave, Like profuse kings, resumes the wealth he gave. No unexpected inundations spoil The mower's hopes, nor mock the ploughman's toil But goldlike his unwearied bounty flows First loves to do, then loves the good he does. Nor are his blessings to his banks confined, But free and common as the sea or wind When he to boast or to disperse his stores, Full of the tributes of his grateful shores, Visits the world, and in his flying towers, Brings home to us and makes both Indies ours Finds wealth where 'tis, bestows it where it wants, Cities in deserts, woods in cities plants So that to us no thing, no place is strange, While his fair bosom is the world's exchange. O, could I flow like thee, and make thy stream My great example, as it is my theme ! Though deep, yet clear though gentle, yet not dull Strong without rage without o'erflowing full ! 1642. -@Denham. CXL. TO ALTHEA FROM PRISON. WHEN love with unconfinèd wings Hovers within my gates, And my divine Althea brings To whisper at the grate
 God and Robert rescued them, the crysten had ben all slayne, but whan Robert was come into the hoost he put him in the moost prese of the Turkes and faughte and layde on eche syde on these cursed houndes there a man myg@ht haue sene armes, legges, hedes tomble on the grounde, both horse and man that neuer rose after it was a worlde to se the murdre that Robert dyde amonge the dampned dogges the Sarasyns so to make shorte tale, Robert dyde so moche, that the Sarasyns were constrayned to flye awaye and themperour helde the felde and had the vyctorye of them. How Robert turned agayne to the forsayd fountayne, and there unarmed hym, whan he had thus subdued and vaynquysshed the Sarasyns and put them to flyght. Now hath the emperour gotten the felde and the honoure, thanked be God, and Robert is torned agayne to the sayd fountayne, and there unarmed hym and layde the harneys on the hors, whiche incontynent was vanyshed awaye that no man coude knowe nor perceyue where he become and Robert bode styll standynge by the fountayne. Themperour's doughter seynge this had grete meruayll of this, and wolde haue tolde it forth but she was dombe and coude no speke. Robert had a race in his face, whiche he gote in the batayll, but he was none otherwyse hurte the emperour was glad, and thanked God of his victory ayenst the false dogges t
 children followed, with endearing wile, And plucked his gown, to share the good man's smile. His ready smile a parent's warmth expressed, Their welfare pleased him, and their cares distressed To them his heart, his love, his griefs were given, But all his serious thoughts had rest in heaven. As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, Swells from the vale, and midway leaves the storm, Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, Eternal sunshine settles on its head. Beside yon straggling fence that skirts the way, With blossomed furze unprofitably gay@-There, in his noisy mansion, skilled to rule, The village master taught his little school A man severe he was, and stern to view, I knew him well, and every truant knew Well had the boding tremblers learned to trace The day's disasters in his morning face Full well they laughed with counterfeited glee At all his jokes, for many a joke had he Full well the busy whisper, circling round, Conveyed the dismal tidings when he frowned Yet he was kind, or, if severe in aught, The love he bore to learning was in fault. The village all declared how much he knew -'Twas certain he could write, and cipher too Lands he could measure, terms and tides presage, And even the story ran, that he could gauge. In arguing, too, the parson owned his skill, For e'en though vanquished, he could argue still While words of learnèd length and thundering sound Amazed the gazing rustics ranged around, And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew That one small head should carry all he kne
 in such a heate was hee driuen with drawing him vp, that he was faine to cast off his gownes, his coates, and two paire of his stockings, to coole himselfe, making a vowhe should hang there seuen yeeres, except the Kings sons came in person to beg his pardon, which most of all grieued Cutb. When Cole and the rest of the Westerne-@Yeomen heard hereof, they could not chuse but laugh, to thinke that he was so taken tardy. The young Princes hauing giuen promise to be with the clothiers, kept their houre, but when all the rest went to giue them entertainment, Simon was so busie in supping his pottage, that he could not spare so much time. Which when the Princes saw, with a smiling countenance they said, Sup Simon, theres good broth or else beshrew our Oastesse, quoth he, neuer looking behind him to see who spake, till the Prince clapt him on the shoulder. But good Lord, how blanke he was when hee spied them, knowing not how to excuse the matter. Well, the Princes hauing ended their banket, Garrat comes and with one of his hands tooke the table of six-teene foote long quite from the ground ouer their heads, from before the Princes, and set it on the other side of the hall, to the great admiration of all them that beheld it. The Princes being then ready to depart, the Clothiers moued them in pleasant maner, to be good to one of their company, that did neither sit, lie, nor stand. Then hee must needs hang, qd. the Princes. And so he dot
 @@-@M. P. SUCH. Machine Printer Publisher, 177, Union-street,  cot at the close of the day, About the beginning of June, By a jessamine shade I spied a fair maid, And she sadly complained to the moon. Roll on silvery moon, guide the traveller's way, While the nightingale's song is in tune, But never again with my lover I'll stray, @By thy sweet silver light, bonny moon.@@@@@@@ As the hart on the mountain my lover was brave, So handsome, so manly, and clever, So kind and sincere, and he loved me so dear, O Edwin ! thy equal was never But now he is dead, and gone to his death bed, Cut down like a rose in full bloom He has fallen asleep, and poor Jane's left to weep, By thy sweet silver light, bonny moon. His grave I will seek, and till morning appears, I'll weep for my lover so brave, I'll embrace the cold turf, and I'll wash with my tears, The daisies that bloom on his grave. Oh never again shall my bosom know joy, With my Edwin I trust to be soon, And lovers shall weep o'er the spot where we sleep, By @thy sweet silver light, bonny moon. LANCASHIRE WITCHES. I N vain I attempt to describe The charms of my favourite fair, She's the sweetest of mother Eve's tribe, With her there is none to compare She's a mirror of beauty so bright, Her beauty my fancy enriches, My charmer's the village delight, And the pride of the Lancashire witches. Then hurrah for the Lancashire witches, Whose smile every bosom enriches, Oh dearly I prize, the pretty blue eyes, Of the pride of the Lancashire witches. They may talk of the dark eyes of Spain, 'Tis useless to boast as they do, They attempt to compare them in vain, With the Lancashire ladies in blue Only view the dear heavenly belles, You are soon seized with love's sudden itches, Which naught could create but the spells From the eyes of the Lancashire witches. The Lancashire ladies, believe me, Are beautiful every one, But mine, or my fancy deceives me, Is the prettiest under the sun If the wealth of the Indies, I swear, Were mine, and I wallowed in riches, How gladly my fortune I'd share, With the pride of the Lancashire witches. 
 RETIRED THOUGHTS. RETIRED thoughts enjoy their own delights, As beauty doth in self-beholding eye Man's mind a mirror is of heavenly sights,@@ A brief wherein all miracles summèd lie,@-Of fairest forms and sweetest shapes the store, Most graceful all, yet thought may grace them more. The mind a creature is, yet can create, To nature's patterns adding higher skill Of finest works wit better could the state, If force of wit had equal power of will. Devise of man in working hath no end What thought can think another thought can mend. Man's soul of endless beauties image is, Drawn by the work of endless skill and might. This skilful might gave many sparks of bliss, And, to discern this bliss, a native light To frame God's image as his worth required, His might, his skill, his word, and will conspired. 1592. -@Southwell. XXXV. THE SOUL'S ERRAND. GO, Soul, the body's guest, Upon a thankless errand ! Fear not to touch the best The truth shall be thy warrant. Go, since I needs must die, And give the world the  has been traced in manuscript to 1593, but was first printed in Davidson's Poetical Rhapsody, second ed., 160
 made him to urge him in this manner. Sir, should I leave you to this wilfull damnation, I were unfit ever hereafter to weare or touch any robe that belongeth unto the holy order, whereof I am a brother you know I doubt not that there is given power to the church to absolve penitent sinners, let not your wilful-nesse take away from you that benefit which you may receive by it freely confesse your selfe I pray you unto me, and doubt not but I shall give your troubled conscience ease Father said this Gentleman I know all that you have spoken is truth, and I have many times received comfort from the mother church, I dare not say our, for I feare that shee will never receive me for a childe I have no part in her benediction, yet since you request so earnestly the cause, I will tell you, heare it and tremble. Know then that I have given my selfe to the Devill for a little wealth, and he to morrow in this wood must have me now have you my griefe, but I know not how to get comfort. This is strange quoth Fryer Bacon, yet be of good comfort, penitentiall teares may doe much, which see you doe not spare soone I will visit you at your house, an@d give you that comfort I hope that will beget you againe to goodnesse the Gentleman with these words was somewhat comforted and returned home. At night Fryer Bacon came to him, and found him full of teares for his haynous of-fences, for these teares he gave him hope of pardon, demanded further what conditions hee had made with the Devill the gentleman told him, how that he h
 of the town, beyond the miasmatic influences of the oozy river. We landed from a small boat at a dock near an extensive, well-con-structed, iron market-building, lately erected by an American firm which, I was informed, had underbid a number of English iron-workers in a competition for the contract. Thinks I to myself, If iron market-houses, why not iron ships ? and was gratified, as was the Doctor, for so he confessed to me, to know that we Americans could compete in some things with the so-called pauper labor of Europe@-@in the manufacture of markets, for instance but I must confess our inmost souls were not strangely thrilled by a feeling of patriotic pride over the discovery. Had we seen the star-spangled banner fluttering in this foreign port from the flag-staff of the American iron-clad market-house we could, neverthe-less, complacently and without undue exultation, have entered the commodious, light, and airy building well stocked with fruits and all manner of comestibles and there, under the American flag, have driven bargains as, in fact, we did with coal-black British subjects for oranges, limes, pines, and mangoes, as many as we could get for a Queen's shilling. Had we, the Doctor and I, however, at any time, in any harbor, during our voyage down the islands, beheld a goodly, staunch, and sea-worthy ship hoist the American flag in the place of honor at the main peak or taffrail flag-staff, thus proudly proclaimin@g her native, or even her naturalized, American register@-@had we, I say, beheld so gratifying a spectacle, one so soothing to our pride as sea-going Americans, we certainly should have been tempted to treat one another to swizzle, concocted, as the Doctor prescribes it, with the spts. rect. juniperis bacc. left out. So we hope to be tempted some day, when our countrymen insist on the repeal of the musty, absurd, aggravating, shipping laws of 1798-@statutes that have driven more American ships from the high seas than a fleet of Alabamas could, without let or hinderance, destroy in a decad
 when kings and beggers of one poore stuffe had being Time was when office kept no knaves that time it was worth seeing. Time was a bowle of water, did give the face reflection, Time was when women knew no paint which now they call complexion. TIME WAS I know that brazen-face, without your telling, I know Time was, and I know what things there was when Time was, and if you speake no wiser, no master shall be waked for mee. Thus Miles talked and sung till another halfe houre was gone, then the brazen head spake again these words  and there with fell downe, and presently followed a terrible noyse, with strange flashes of fire, so that Miles was halfe dead with feare at this noyse the two Fryers awaked, and wondred to see the whole roome so full of smoake, but that being vanished they might perceive the brazen head broken and lying on the ground at this sight they grieved, and called Miles to know how this came. Miles halfe dead with feare, said that it fell downe of itselfe, and that with the noyse and fire that followed he was almost frighted out of his wits Fryer Bacon asked him if hee did not speake ? yes quoth Miles it spake, but to no purpose, Ile have a parret speake better in that time that you have been teaching this brazen head. Out on thee villaine said Fryer Bacon thou hast u
 the Clothier, who profest himselfe to be of that ancient family of Grayes, whose first originall issued out of that ancient and Honorable Castle and Towne of Rithin. Here was the King most bountifully feasted, hauing in his company his brother Robert although his pri-soner the same time. And his Grace being desirous to see the Maidens card and spinne, they were of purpose set to their worke among whom was faire Margaret with her white hand, whose excellent beauty hauing pierc't the eyes of the amorous Duke, it made such an impression in his heart, that afterward he could neuer forget her and so vehemently was his affection kindled, that he could take no rest, till by writing he had be-wrayed his mind but of this we will speake more in another place and the King at his departure said, that to gratifie them, hee would make his sonne Robert their Earle, who was the first Earle that euer was in Glocester. Now when his Grace was come from thence, he went to Worcester, where William Fitz-allen made prepara-tion in all honourable sort to receiue him, which man being borne of great parentage, was not to learne how to entertaine his Maiestie, being descended of that famous Family, whose patrimony lay about the Towne of Oswestrie, which Towne his predecessors had inclosed with stately walls of stone. Although aduerse fortune had so grieuously frowned on some of them, that their children were faine to b
 young man eke, that feels his bones with pains oppressed, How he would be a rich old man, to live and lie at rest. The rich old man, that sees his end draw on so sore, How he would be a boy again, to live so much the more. Whereat full oft I smiled, to see how all these three, From boy to man, from man to boy, would chop and change degree. And, musing thus, I think the case is very strange, That man from wealth, to live in woe, doth ever seek to change. Thus thoughtful as I lay, I saw my withered skin, How it doth show my dented chews, the flesh was worn so thin. And eke my toothless chaps, the gates of my right way, That opes and shuts as I do speak, do thus unto me say ' Thy white and hoarish hairs, the messengers of age, That show, like lines of true belief, that this life doth assuage, Bid thee lay hand and feel them hanging on thy chin. The which doth write two ages past, the third now coming in. Hang up therefore the bit of thy young wanton time And thou, that therein beaten art, the happiest life define.' Whereat I sighed, and said ' Farewell, my wonted joy, Truss up thy pack and trudge from me, to every little boy, And tell them thus from me, their time most happy is, If, to their time, they reason had to know the truth of this@'. -@Surre
 I. EN ROUTE FOR BAVELLA-AN ECCENTRIC LANDLORD. SAINTE LUCIE DI TALLANO is the halting-place for the forest of Bavella. From thence you can mount up to the Bocca starting early, and spending the whole day in the forest, returning again to sleep at Sainte Lucie. There is another route, sometimes fol@lowed, by which you drive down the other side of the forest to Sollenzara, on the east coast but, as this place is reported to be exceedingly dirty, and is, besides, not healthy after the winter months, if it is then, it is not to be recommended.  to Sainte Lucie is a five-hours' drive, and a steady ascent the whole way. The road is less interesting than usual in Corsica, and, for some distance, is almost tame, winding amongst low green hills, and by the side of a foaming river swept by willows. Some queer-looking crows with white breasts were fluttering about here and, further on, the river was spanned by an old-fashioned Pisan bridge, wide enough only for mules and foot-passengers, with no parapet-made in the days when carts and carriages apparently were not. There was a good deal of traffic on this road plenty of muscular-looking Corsican dames bestriding their mules, and generally followed by a foal and heavy charrettes, drawn by six mules, and filled with sacks of charcoal, brought from the forests above. Then a hideous red tower came in sight, stuck on the summit of a low hill, like a piece of scarlet sealing-wax and which, our driver informed us, was the summer residence of some country magnate, who migrated thither yearly with his family pour prendre l'air  we mounted higher, the scenery grew finer, with a rather dreary grandeur and as we paused to rest the horses, Nos. 1 and 2 got out to walk, and No. 3 took the opportunity to sketch. Meanwhile, the driver stood beside the carriage, eyeing her performance with some curiosity. He was a short young man, with a heavy figure, but the head and neck of an Antinous, and a pleasant refined face, with the mixture, often seen in Corsica, of dark eyes and a yellow moustache. He was as proud and reticent as the rest of his race, and hitherto we had scarcely heard his voice, although he did his duties well, and was sternly attentive to our wants. No. 3's first effort at friendly conversa@tion did not prosper. I suppose you come from Ajaccio ? she asked, meaning to be kind and sociable. But your true Corsican does not under@stand patronage, nor care for sociability. Non, replied the little man, shortly. Oh, from the mountains, then ? she continued,  plus, was the unresponsive return. No. 3 made one more effort, although feeling a little snubbed by her companion's taciturnity. But you know these parts well ? Mais oui je l'espére, was all the answer she got as he turned away, either too proud or too shy to talk leaving her mentally resolved to make no further efforts at friendliness with this most unfriendly Corsican. This resolution, however, soon melted away, as did Antonio's shyness and, before long, we and our young coachman were the best of friends. He was very different from most of his class. Antonio had already, although only twenty-four, been nine years a driver, having had only two years' schooling but, in that short time, had taught himself to write and to read both Italian and French. Nature had taught him to be a gentleman, and had endowed him with two qualities rare in his country-industry and a desire  had a kindly gentle nature although his sleepy dark eyes were quite capable of the national flash of sudden anger and joined a conscientious integrity to the usual dignified reticence and independence of manner. Corsican coachmen, whether private or belonging to livery stables, are usually paid at the rate of only twelve or thirteen francs a week about ten shillings and on this wretched pay the men have to find both food and clothes, if in a public stable. Of course, in the season, they make about as much by their pour boires but this is very uncertain, and, at times, fails alto@gether. There is not much occupation open to those few Corsicans who will work. Agri@culture only goes on in part of the country and masons and day labourers are really not required. The projected railway across the island will be the greatest blessing to those of the natives who have the good sense and manli@ness to prefer work to starvation. It is doubtful how many will do this.  every winter, families are at death's door through the inherent idleness of their heads, who will neither work nor beg, and who apply the words of the Unjust Steward to themselves. In the country, matters are equally bad. Toil and beggary are equally obnoxious and degrading in their eyes and they often prefer, both for themselves and their innocent children, actual starvation. It is a most incomprehensible state of things to the practical British mind, but a characteristic not confined to Corsica. I cannot resist quoting a passage from Mr. Hamerton's book, Round My House. The contrast between certain races and others, he says, in regard to the sort of pride which scorns self-help, is very striking, and it is worth remark that a certain form of nobleness appears to be almost incom@patible with the watchful activity of really effectual self-help. The Highlanders of Scotland and the Arabs of Algeria have both a certain sentiment about self-help which is far from the English feeling, and still further from American or  upon the subject. The Highlander will, no doubt, work a little when absolutely compelled by what to him appears unavoid@able necessity, but he takes no delight in his work, and feels degraded by it. He will submit to any amount of inconvenience sooner than apply himself heartily to remedy it. Mr. Hamerton goes on to quote two cases in point, both of which came under his notice but lately in the Highlands. One was that of a congregation divided from their parish church, in all but dry weather, by an impassable stream, which it would have been easy enough to span with the simplest of wooden bridges, but which remained for years unregarded, whilst the population preferred, to a few hours' work, the constant trouble of going by a long circuit to their church. The other case was that of a landing-stage, always dangerous on rough and stormy days, where a little pier might have been easily run out but where things remained in statu quo year after year, to the destruc@tion of property, by reason of the inertness of the surrounding bo@ meanwhile we, on our way to Sainte Lucie, were mounting higher and higher towards the clouds, among scenery that was becoming grand. The purple ranges of serrated peaks that stood out against the sky were very fine in their misty outlines and, on the mountain side just above us, three villages, one beneath the other, caught the last lights of the setting sun. The upper one, called St. Henri, was dis@tinguished by its picturesque church spire standing out among the green trees and grey houses the lower one was Olmiche, and the middle one, Sainte Lucie di Tallano. On the left of Tallano, rose a fine building like a church, but which, we were informed, was a deserted convent, with a treasured picture within its walls. As we toiled slowly up the heights, many a small unpretending black cross of wood, half covered by macchie, rose from the hills or stood beside the roadway, marking the place where life had been lost on this dangerous path, or taken by the hand of fellow-man through robbery and revenge. The situation of Tallano was lovely  appearance of the village did not promise luxurious quarters for the night. The entrance to the little inn was not bad for Corsica but the bare little salle a manger and comfortless bedrooms were un@inviting. The floors of the latter were dirty, the furniture broken, and chiefly conspicuous by its absence, and the air within close and muggy. However, here we were to stay for the night-nolentes volentes-so it was of no use grumbling over the inevitable. There were but two rooms to spare, but a canapie was brought in for No. 3. As a Corsican traveller, I give this piece of advice strongly by all means eschew canapies. They are usually one foot wide, and of the consistency of a deal board and, having been used as couches by the family, their friends, and the children for years, without ever a dusting, or the advantages, possessed by a bed, of changed sheets and counterpanes, are, as a rule, indescribably filthy and unpleasant. If, however, as at Tallano, a bed is not procurable, and you are very tired, a  perhaps preferable to bare and dirty boards, over which disports the nocturnal beetle and the best plan then is to shut eyes and nose as closely as possible, and dream of your own dear cot at home. But I am bound to say the Tallano dirt was all on the outside. The beds were perfectly clean, and, but for the snores of the old landlord and his family, reposing in the salle a manger close by, we might have enjoyed undisturbed repose. Dinner was announced to be at seven o'clock and we found three other places laid beside ours at the little round table. Presently the door opened, and in walked three Corsican messieurs all very stiff and shy, and all got up, in our honour, in irreproachable evening attire. Three stiff but polite bows were made, to which we responded in like manner and then, in solemn silence, broken only by the clatter of the ragged unkempt waiting girl, we all sat down to commence our soup, our fish, and sweet-breads. The silence was growing hysterical, when one of our party, afraid of losing her manners with her  to remark that the evening looked stormy. The three messieurs instantly all lifted their three shiny black heads with a look of relief, and rushed at the witty remark with the avidity of hungry dogs upon a juicy bone. Conversation having been thus happily started, flourished healthily to the end of dinner. All three were young men whose duties kept them in this small village one being telegraph and post-office overseer, another some sort of government land agent, and the third of trade or profession unknown. None of the three had ever been out of their native island, but all seemed intelligent and well educated and their courtesy and good manners were beyond criticism. They told us what they knew about the country, and about our excursion to Bavella to-morrow and one of them insisted upon bestowing a nice piece of orbicular granite upon No. 3. This so-called orbicular granite which is no granite at all, but probably a kind of hornblende is a natural curiosity of  and is said to be found rarely, if ever, in other countries. A fine quarry of it is being worked in the hills just above Tallano. The stone is of a pale malachite green, covered with narrow white rings that run in every direction, not only across but through the stone, and have every appearance of fossils. They are not fossils, however, but of the same substance as the green foundation. It is very handsome when polished, and is sold in small pieces for house and church decora@tion, and for fancy articles. Dinner being over, the three messieurs departed, each with a polite bow and we prepared to draw round the fire and enjoy a private chat. But we counted without our host, who presently appeared, pipe in mouth, and after inquiring if our dinner had been good, and putting more wood upon the fire, drew his chair into our circle and showed an intention of joining us. He was rather a gentlemanly old man, with keen black eyes and iron-grey hair but decidedly eccentric. We had been warned beforehand that he was quite mad and so felt a little  by his friendly proximity, but were soon reassured by his manner. He was not master of much French, however, and had a habit of saying Hein ? hein ? all the time his neighbours were speaking, which did not improve matters. But he was exceedingly irate when he could not understand what was said and his splutters of wrath were only equalled by the geniality of his smile when, a little later, he brought up his children, one by one, followed by their young mother, to say bonsoir to the English ladies, and lift their little caps from their round heads. A more queer character I never saw than this old fellow, with his irritable temper and his tender heart taking transparent turns on his countenance. Velvet cap on head, and pipe in mouth, he told us tales of our com@patriots who had passed the night at his inn on their way to Bavella, invariably inquir@ing if we were of their acquaintance and sometimes expecting us to recognize them by a description of their personal appearance only, without the superfluity of a name. One anecdote he told with especial  relative to a gold watch worth 500 francs, left behind by an Englishman under his pillow the last night he was here, and which he transmitted by the next English visitor to its owner, subsequently found at Ajaccio. If you leave anything behind you, mesdames, in my house, you need have nothing to fear. Nothing is ever lost here. And he was no doubt correct. But the peppery side of his character came to light later on in the evening, when No. 3, having retired to her room, found the canapie made up with one very narrow sheet, open necessarily only at one side, by that means further reducing the width of the narrow berth. Somewhat indignant, she called up the nondescript waiting girl, insisting upon another sheet, and the remaking of the canapie which was effected with a little unwillingness. She had just retired again and locked her door which fortunately boasted a key , when the old gentleman came hammering at it, to know what had been wanted. She informed him nothing was  as her wants had been supplied but this did not satisfy that irate personage late of the sunny smile, who still demanded admittance, evidently with the intention of scolding. But it was of no avail his rattling the door handle, and trying to force an entrance, as No. 3, a little frightened, remained firm, and fortunately the door also and after an appeal to his better feelings through the excuse that her attire was, at the moment, insufficient for the reception of company, the old gentleman at length retreated, grumbling loudly to himself. @@@A  II. THE FOREST OF BAVELLA. BAVELLA is so high up amongst the moun@tains, that, unless the day be cloudless, it is useless to make the ascent, as every view is otherwise lost. We were favoured by the most perfect day imaginable and from morning till evening, not a mist wreath came to hide a single peak or confuse a single line of the mountain ranges. We got up at daybreak, and breakfasted on dry bread and coffee at 5.30 a.m. At 6 a.m. we were in our carriage, brought round by the ever-punctual Antonio, and driving up the steep ascent in the long shadows of early day, sunlight on the mountain tops, larks singing their carol, and heavy dew lying on the sweet-scented grass and macchie round  yard of the way was lovely, and every turn brought out new beauties grandest mountains rising from purple mists of morning, with jagged peak and archi@tectural column, wide deep gorges, and villages nestling everywhere with campanile in their centre, among steep green hills. Suddenly we came face to face with the snow-clad mountain of Bavella, white and glitteringng and, standing before it, a per@pendicular mountain of purple rock, serrated in the most wonderful manner, like a row of columns or a Druid's temple. This mountain boasted the name of the Fourca di Basinao, we were informed and it continued to rear its wild hydra head before us all day from behind grassy hill or group of trees, until at length we faced its precipitous sides on the Bocca di Bavella. Evia, further on, is a picturesque village, embosomed in trees, which shut out the most magnificent hills. Here was a fine old church, and tall campanile, as usual standing apart from the church and, pacing slowly before it, a polite old cure, in rusty brown cassock, who took off his  and bared his white head as t@he carriage passed. T@he road to Bavella is not among t@he best. It is not a diligence road and is, besides, a good deal cut up by the heavy charcoal and wood waggons which ply constantly up and down it. The turns are sharp, and the route steep and rutty, as well as narrow and a nervous person might feel uncomfortable winding above a deep precipitous gorge, at the bottom of which rushes a foaming river, and from whose opposite slopes rises the impenetrable forest. Mossy rocks lay up the side of the cliff above our path and presently great Titanic boulders, twice as big as an ordinary house, covered the mountain flank, and hung across our road, intermixed with the gnarled and knotted trunks of broken trees. Here the ground grew soft and park-like arbutus and garden shrubs edged our way and Mediterranean heath, nine or ten feet high, over which peered grey crag and various trees, made the air heavy with  on, to more open ground, @past the village of Souza on its boulder-strewn hill, surrounded by groves of ilex and pine, over@looking wooded gorge and merry cascade on, with the smoothly rounded snow moun@tain, and the peaked, richly coloured rocks ever before us-with sheets of blue and white anemone scattered upon the mossy ground at the foot of giant trees ascending more and more steeply, with views ever more and more beautiful, into the enchanted forest, fir-cones crackling under the horses' feet, and thickly growing pines throwing shady tracery over the sunny pathway. Caterpillars' bags overhung the road and here and there a hacked tree had poured out a rich stream of turpentine. The bark of one of these w@as covered by a multitude of lovely little insects, something like lady@birds, but flat, scarlet coloured with black spots. Gradually we went winding up to the Bocca or head of the pass, every break in the trees showing wider and more extensive ranges of mountains and great golden lichen-covered crags, surrounded by  overhung by pines, presenting at each turn a more perfect study for a sketch. Corsica is certainly the heaven of a land@scape painter, and Bavella is one of her highest attractions. The road was rough and narrow, however, now and here and there, where a party of cantonniers, or road-makers, were at work repairing, their heaps of stone still further narrowed the passage for the carriage, which on one or two occasions passed the corner with three wheels on the ground, and the fourth hanging over the edge of the preci@pice ! The forest ceased as we reached the Bocca, to recommence, at the same distance, down the other side. The top of the mountain was bare and rugged, crowned by a few cedars but from this spot the most magnificent of views lay spread out before us. The forest lay all around us at our feet from the other side of the gorge rose the wonderful Fourca di Basinao and far away below swelled seven ranges of moun@tains, billowed and commingling in varied hues of purple, hazy blue, and vivid  few steps further brought us to the edge of the slope leading down to the other side, and to the route towards Solenzara and this view was almost more beautiful than the other. Forests of pine and lighter beeches covered conical hills, that looked as if we could have thrown a stone upon their tops darker majestic rocks rose like gigantic ruined castles behind them close beside us was an unbroken cone of pure snow and, far away, beyond all, a wide sweep of bluest Mediterranean with the island of Asanzara lying, gem-like, upon its bosom. All down this side of the hill, for two or three hundred yards or so, the bare rocky ground was covered with low huts of wood or stone, roughly put together, and not more than ten or twelve feet long. These huts, which were like a series of human mole-hills scattered over the hill-side, had an open space left for doorway, but neither door nor chimney. Peeping inside one, we saw that it was very dirty, with no other flooring than the muddy ground, and that the only article of furniture within was an old  wretched hovels are, for three or four months together, the homes of the poor cantonniers at work upon the roads who herd here together anyhow, obtaining bread and country wine from the little locanda close by, placed under the brow of the highest slope. At this locanda our horses were put up for the mid-day halt and from it, presently, a little circle of five or six women issued, very curious to eye the foreign ladies, and, if possible, to question them. One of these @was the landlady of the little public-house for inn it was not , and the others were the wives of a few of the cantonniers whose energy or means had enabled them to follow their husbands. They were not long in squatting round us in a ring as w@e sketched, talking rapidly in their Italian patois to each other, and persuading the brown-eyed, sweet-faced landlady-the only one of the party able to speak French-to ask us w@hence w@e came and who we w@ere. She was too shy to begin at first, but, once started, kept @up a brisk conversation. Here, in her  3700 feet above the sea level, she had known but few visitors, especially foreigners, and she was full of interest and curiosity. For some minutes we were plied by the usual round of questions as to our nation@ality, as to the beauty of England, and the riches of its inhabitants and we found the usual difficulty in convincing them that we were not millionaires. Ah, madame ! said the woman, point@ing to the little reticule which No. 1 carried over her arm you know there is enough money in that bag to make my fortune. As the bag in question really did contain money, her remark was not so far from the truth as it might have been. Was it not very lonely living up here all the year round ? we asked her. Ah, well it was triste in winter, for sometimes they were snowed up for six or seven months together but in summer it w@as not dull, for she had friends like these with her. Had she any children, we asked, to brighten up her solitude in winter  dark eyes filled with tears, and the rough brown face softened, as she shook her head sadly, No, not one and she had been married four years. But, we said, consolingly, there may still be some, at some future day. Ah, madame, I have prayed the Holy Mother of God, and I think it must be because I am not good enough. But this month month of Mary , I have sent an offering to her shrine and perhaps she will hear me this time. The wistful eyes of the poor woman still wore their touching expression as we said good-bye, and, after a two-hours' halt on the Bocca, walked off on our return journey. I should advise all travellers, except those of unusually stout nerves, to do as we did, and start before the carriage on returning, doing the first three or four miles of descent on foot. Even with so careful and skilful a driver as ours, cantering down this uncommonly steep and narrow road must be a doubtful enjoyment to most persons not accustomed to live on the edge of a precipice  the lovely scenery can be much more fully appreciated on foot and at a walking pace. It is something too, to drink in the grand solitude of this forest-covered mountain side, where the rustle of trees, over whose heads you often look, and the weird calling of some forest bird, are generally the only sounds to disturb thoughts w@hich seem to expand with the wide grandeur of nature. About a quarter of a mile from Sainte Lucie we got out, and, dismissing the carriage to its stables in the village, ex@plored the little convent church upon the hill. The convent itself, with strong walls and narrow windows, is now turned into a stable but the church door stood open, and we entered. A perfect pandemonium it appeared to be some men playing jigs on a wretched little harmonium in a corner of the build@ing, and about sixty children, of all ages, rushing about the place, dancing and  men, as usual, took little notice of us but the children ceased their games, and followed us in open-mouthed curiosity from side to side of the little church, as we made a tour of inspection. It was a poor little place, dirty and neglected, with a number of wretched daubs upon the walls-one, the old and treasured picture, having been painted in the twelfth century, but certainly nothing to boast of, except in the way of antiquity. These children of Tallano were pretty and amusing. We were sitting on the wall in the lane outside the inn, waiting for dinner, when one of them, a round-faced, brown-eyed boy of about twelve, seated on a mule, came riding past us once or twice, giving furtive glances each time. Bonsoir, said we at last. Bonsoir, said he, turning a blushing, delighted face towards us. I said '@bon@soir@' to you before, when you passed me in the street. Saying which, and having satisfied his curiosity, the little fellow turned round his steed and finally rode away.  expedition to Bavella from Tallano @can be done in ten hours viz., five hours going up, two to rest on the Bocca, and three for the descent. It is, therefore, an easy day's excursion. But it is well worth while giving up twelve or thirteen hours to it starting at five or six o'clock in the morning, and returning at seven, thus having four or five hours in the middle of the day for a good ramble in and out of and round about this beautiful forest. Bread and cheese, or other provisions, must be taken, as the little locanda supplies absolutely nothing eatable in the way of food although they probably have some of the good red country wine, for which Tallano is celebrated. Enthusiastic Eng@lishmen do occasionally spend a night upon the Bocca but, judging from what I saw of the locanda, it would be absolutely im@possible for any lady to sleep there and one gentleman, who had passed a night in a log hut near the top of the pass, and who conceives himself, as a rule, proof against the attacks of any noxious insect, told me that he never spent so miserable a time  life, and that he would not repeat the experiment for twenty Bavellas, exquisite though they might be. At Tallano we had nothing of this sort. Discomfort, and even dirt there might be but it was dirt of the bearable kind, uncon@nected with entomology. But no doubt the accommodation differs. An English lady, met since our return, informed me that she and her party spent several days in the forest, in one of the forestier's houses, for lodging in which, per@mission must be obtained from the autho@rities at Ajaccio and that, although destitute of all comforts and almost of furniture, the house was not in any way obnoxious from dirt.  Sartene from Tallano descends for some distance on the Propriano route, and is not particularly interesting. After passing the queer old Pisan bridge, however, it branches off to the left, into a soft green shady road, faced by a handsome conical mountain, and bordered by ilexes, cork-trees, and clustering flowers. The rest of the way is a continual ascent until Sartene is reached. Steep boulders, growing grander and more massive, and half covered with a scarlet leek parasite that is positively daz@zling in the brilliant sunshine, rise on each side of the road, interspersed with ilex-trees, myrtle, arbutus, and many shrubs, some@times lying gently in a flat grassy nook, like a garden  Near Sartene, t@he road grows terribly steep, winding for miles round and round the hot interminable hill, on the side of which lies the town, looking clean and superior. Blue sea peeped out behind us, and snow mountains invited us in front, as @we got out, and, remembering that both good men and women are merciful to their beasts, toiled up the steep ascent beside the carriage. Antonio had the best of it for, with his hat pushed well back from his sunburnt face, he was consoling himself with a pipe for his long, hot walk. Antonio never smoked whilst on the box hence, the sight of a steep hill had charms for him. In this respect, as in all others, he was a pleasing contrast to the Bastia coachman, who puffed his vile tobacco inside the carriage night and morning. Antonio ap@peared to think he must only smoke on sufferance, and at first used to retire behind the carriage whilst enjoying his uphill treat, directing the horses by an occasional call,@ and hastily smothering his pipe in his hand if spoken  before the entrance to the town, stood, close beside the road, an enormous boulder of grey stone. On this had been placed, evidently by nature, a smaller round one. On the top of this was reared a lofty iron cross, eight or ten feet high, a dove flying from its summit, and, as is always the case in Corsica, the crown of thorns, the ladder, spear, hammer, and nails, even the sponge upon the stick, fastened to it. At both entrances to the main street of every considerable village or town in Corsica you invariably see this large cross, generally of wood, and nearly always accompanied by these implements of the Crucifixion but that at Sartene, reared on its great grey rock, with the background of blue mountains and green groves, was one of the most striking in the island. The Hotel de l'Univers, in the principal street, was quite a cheery sight to way-worn travellers. It was no dirty little inn, with foul smells and objectionable bed@rooms but a really airy, pleasant hotel, situated in a rather stuffy street, but with dainty, well-furnished bedrooms, and  comfortable salle a manger. After Corte and of course excepting Ajaccio , it was the best hotel we had seen in the island. After a slight lunch we went out, and, strolling through the hot glaring streets and up a steep dusty hill, found ourselves at the picturesque little church of St. Amiens, built on a grassy level half-way up, overlooking lovely views. Attached to this church is a large, thick-walled monastery, in fashion like a bastion and, as we sat sketching on the grass before it, a string of monks came slowly by, entering two and two through the narrow door which opened into the monastery. They were dressed in brown cassocks, with light-brown girdles and long rosaries, brown cowls, and sandalled feet that were equally brown. They walked along demurely enough, with their eyes cast upon the ground, until they reached the narrow doorway but, as they turned to go in, each monk gave way to the sinful appetite of curiosity, and glanced stealthily from under his  at the three strangers. A lofty wooden cross stood on the green a few@ yards from the church, and we were a little astonished to see that neither the brown monks, nor the fat and homely sisters who afterwards passed on their way to Vespers, saluted it in any way w@ith signs of re@verence. These sisters, comfortable-looking old ladies, with broad smiling faces, dressed all in black with enormous flapping w@hite hats which were probably useful, but cer@tainly not ornamental, were soeurs de charité, or nurses of the poor. The pretty little church was dainty and pleasing within as without. In honour of the month of Mary, a very grand Madonna, dressed as usual in sky blue, and surrounded by an arch of silver tinsel and white artificial roses, was placed in front of the altar for the contemplation of the faithful. Many quiet simple souls came into the cool, shady little building from the glare outside, to tell their beads, and to sit for a few moments in quiet meditation before the gaudy but  figure and among others two little girls, who, after kneeling down for a minute or two, commenced whispering and giggling audibly. I made friends with these two little things, and presently they sat, one on each side, holding my hands and looking up into my face with the brightest and most eager of black eyes. Jaenne and Sophie, as they informed me they were called, were in the middle class of life, and were good French scholars. They were on their return from school, and were awaiting the priest's call to attend confession. The burden of their sins did not appear to weigh very heavily upon these small reprobates, as they chatted away to me with great friendliness, imparting to me their great desire to travel and to visit England, and showing particular curiosity as to the appearance and disposition of my mother. Isn't she very unhappy, asked the handsome little Jaenne with the gleaming eyes, to think you are so far away from  mother wouldn't let me go, said the small, freckled, mischievous-looking Sophie not now at least. But I'll go some day, when I'm big. It's very beautiful in England, isn't it ? asked Jaenne. Much more beautiful than Corsica ? Is it very cold ? I should like to live in England, remarked Sophie, sagely, because every@body is very rich there ! Beyond the church, and down the road for some distance, lie pretty scattered tombs surrounded by foliage, and reposing against wooded or grassy hills, and beyond these a populous little cemetery@@. After strolling in this direction, Nos. 2 and 3 returned to the town, and went into the cathedral at one side of the Grande Place. As we walked up the long flight of stone steps leading to it, a group of children rushed after us, shouting and dancing, and pursuing us round the interior of the church itself. Not much was to be seen there. It was a gloomy, dusty-looking place, far inferior in attractions to the graceful,  little St. Amiens but the Virgin's altar stood out in magnificence of large blue and silver-spangled curtains, surrounded by flowers, real and artificial. Hastening down the steps again, we soon got rid of our tormentors, and walked to the other end of the town to make a quick sketch of the boulder cross. During the two or three minutes that we stood there, a crowd of forty children speedily collected, with the addition of one man and two women. The smell of garlic was suffocating but good breeding pre@vailed, and a dead silence pervaded the interested group, one and all bent upon a polite and stealthy peep over our shoulders. For this purpose, a low wall behind was in great request, and one or two boys got upon each other's shoulders to attain the desired end. The excitement became intense, when, hearing a whisper of Ah, Rosina, ecco ! I looked down, and perceived a tiny, pic@turesque child with round face surrounded by the usual bambino's white cap, from off which had fallen a large straw hat,  by its strings behind her neck, and proceeded to sketch her. She's drawing Rosina ! she's drawing Rosina ! became the cry and the sudden rush of the juveniles compelled me to close my sketch-book, and make good my escape, escorted by an excited, but friendly crowd, to the Hotel de l'Univers, where table d'hôte was just over, but where a modest little dinner of nine courses had been kept hot for our benefit. @@@A  IV. THE LION OF ROCCAPINA. FROM Sartene to Bonifacio is a drive of about seven hours, including an hour's bait@ing in the middle of the day. The scenery at first is not very fine, and leads through many a bleak and rugged hill, varied by gigantic boulders, and half-stifled ilex and arbutus. Some of these boulders were remarkable for their strange hollowness, and would have made excellent bandit caves, had they been alittle more hidden by the cystus and arbutus which bordered the way. About half-way to the pass of Roccapina, however, a fine range of blue rocks rose on our left, close at hand, and continued for some distance to stand sentinel over the little valley through which we passed. Our drive to-day was varied by an  chase. A poor little foal, following its mother and her master, got separated from its friends, through fear of our carriage, and fled precipitately down the road before us. After vainly shouting to its deaf owner, and trying by means of gentle driving to turn it back, Antonio at length jumped down, and we all followed his example. But the small beast, now out of sight of its mother, and not possessed of much wisdom, would not be persuaded to follow the same road but, cleverly dodging our outstretched arms, rushed for protection to the horses, nestling up between them, to their great contempt and indignation. The chase became exciting, and No. 3, standing at the horses' heads, was quite exhausted with laughing, Nos. 1 and 2 having shouted themselves quite hoarse, when Antonio, by a dexterous rush, sud@denly caught the snorting, terrified foal up in his strong arms, and began to carry it kicking down the road. At the same moment a pitiful neighing was heard round the corner, and the stupid owner at last  dragged back by his afflicted mare and in another moment, mother and child were happily re-united. The pass of Roccapina is wild and pic@turesque, overlooking the sea, and many a rocky range. The open pass is bordered by loose boulders, and far beneath lies the little bay of Roccapina, three or four large coasting vessels lying in its harbour, mere black atoms in the distance the white sandy road winding down to it, dotted with charcoal carts drawn by their six or eight mules, looking like so many moving centi@pedes upon the hill-side. The long headland, w@@hich juts far out into the sea and protects one side of this bay, has upon its furthest height a high round tower, and upon the summit of the nearer hill, one of the greatest natural curiosities in Europe. It consists of the figure of a lion, seated upon the high peak with a lordly air, look@ing out to sea-an entirely natural formation in the rock. For miles this lion can be seen, lifelike as if from the chisel of a sculptor, his very features being marked out by the  of the granite, and his pose full of spirit and vivacity. Behind the headland, sweeps of blue sea and distant points of brown and purple rocks form a fine background, and in front the ground slopes away by a rocky winding road to the sea level. A little Douane, represented by one plea@sant elderly gendarme, and a tiny inn, are the only dwellings on this bleak and lonely spot, or for miles around its windy solitudes. A tame tortoise, and some queer Corsican ware inside the bare little inn, consoled us during our mid-day halt for a passing shower, and our bread and cheese was aug@mented by the only luxury possessed by the good-natured landlady, who sold us an apronful of walnuts for twopence, and laughed cheerily at our original Italian. Distorted and fantastic boulders gave way after a time, on the road down, to macchie and plains of corn-fields bedecked by sheets of scarlet poppies, as we left off following the margin of the sea-shore and struck inland once more amongst the green  wide rock-strewn plain, with a rocky line of hills in front, and a dry sandy road, nearly stifled us, and we were glad to get into a lovely lane hedged by arbutus, up which twined the loving purple vetch, to a height of more than eight feet, and whers flowers-scarlet, blue, white, and golden@-hid everything but blue sky from our aching eyes. Breezy hills, peeps of sea, and malarious@looking plain, followed each other in quick succession, as we wound up and down, never leaving the sea-coast far behind. Reaching the top of the last stony height, about six miles from Bonifacio, a splendid view lay spread before us. As far as the eye could reach the great Mediterranean glittered like a blue mirror to the horizon, with its white cliffs and low blue hills, sur@rounded by many small islands, while the white bastion walls of Bonifacio glistened in the noonday sun far off upon the mainland, overtopping all. On our right rose the splendid rocks, black pointed and well-nigh inaccessible, upon which is situated the Hermitage de la@ monastery has been for many years deserted and untenanted, but an immense black iron cross stands out with weird arms pointing into the summer sky from the extreme summit of this wild eyrie. Looking at the almost perpendicular rocks, it is difficult to believe that any one could scale those heights and one felt that here, at any rate, was a monastery which could have little or no communication with the outer world. The next four or five miles seemed inter@minable, as in a burning fiery furnace of heat we drove along the level, sandy road leading to Bonifacio, bordered by a few dusty olives, and plentifully sprinkled with the black wooden wayside cross. Nearer the town we passed between won@derful chalk cliffs, curved and hollowed and glittering, some having every appearance of high built walls. When at length we emerged from these white, cave-carved cliffs, we were at the bottom of an almost perpendicular hill, from the summit of which rose the bastions of Bonifacio. The long narrow harbour which  the sea round one side of the town through more curious chalk cliffs, ceased at the edge of the roadside, and the lower little town or quay, with one or two small stone towers, lay beside it, before us, under the brow of the hill up which w@e must ascend to the citadel and town proper. A more wild and extraordinary looking situation for a town it would be impossible to conceive and of all the towns in Corsica, I have no hesitation in saying that Bonifacio is best worth a visit. Perched on the summit of its steep hill, its chalk foundations overhanging the blue sea on one side, and flanked by harbour and distant purple hills upon the other, the great mass of masonry looks proudly down, with the invincible pride of centuries, upon its Sardinian neighbour, and upon the waters that surround three sides of its steep fortress. Forde CHAPTER V. BONIFACIO. THE town of Bonifacio proper is within t@he citadel walls, and two roads ascend to the heights. One is wide and handsome, wind@ing round the lofty walls and entering the citadel by a strong drawbridge with fine old chains the other is a stony zigzag, too narrow and too steep for any vehicle, and only available for men, women, and mules. This also leads by a lesser drawbridge into the well-defended town. On entering through the main gates of the city, you find yourself in a wide street, which will be handsome when some ruined houses are repaired, and others now build@ing are finished. Between the houses, come peeps of breezy hills and blue harbour. The ascent is still steep and stony, al@though wide and the street, which is  good one in Bonifacio, soon comes to an end. An intricacy of narrow byways leads out of it in every direction. Into some of these we penetrated, and found them most curious. The houses were enormously high, sup@ported by flying buttresses from one roof or wall to the other across the narrow street while the road itself by courtesy so called was made up of mighty cobble-stones, varied by large holes, with here and there a sudden drop of a foot or two. There was of course no apparatus of any sort for lighting up these side streets, and I could not help wondering what was the percentage of the population whose nocturnal errands in these dark, dangerous alleys gave them a contused or broken limb. Here and there among the overleaning houses came a break of queer old stone arches, leading by some black and filthy staircase into an abode of darkness from which came the voices of dogs and children. Our passage down these back streets, however, was a nervous and hasty one, and we took care to keep in the centre of  or six feet of stony way, knowing by uncomfortable experience the national pro@pensity of treating the highways as drains, and the possibility any moment of a deluge of dirty water from an upper window upon our heads. In one street, a little wider than the others, and which boasted a row of shops, a brown monk was collecting coppers for his order in a little tin can, against which he rattled his brown rosary suggestively. He was a very dirty, but a very polite monk, and showed withal rather a pleasant, honest face as he bowed to us, turning back his cowl to get a better stare. The main street at its end branched off into two steep paths, one of which led to our hotel, ! and the other, equally steep but rather wider, brought us out, by rough stony passages, first to the barracks, large and white with an open square in front, and then, under an archway over which is a little room once inhabited by the first Napoleon when a Corsican lieutenant , to a wide breezy common. This common, covered with grass  with@ flying wind-mills, one or two military towers of heavy white stone, containing gunpowder, and some fortifica@tions, is the plateau of the rocky height upon which Bonifacio is built. Reaching the edge of the grassy plateau, we looked down the almost perpendicular chalk cliffs to a depth of several hundred feet below, where the blue water chafed and sparkled, as it worked away busily in its endless task of excavation. Straight before us, across the straits, lay Sardinia, one or two houses showing a glitter across the nine miles of white@ribboned currents that rushed with terrific pace between us and her. Then, turning back, and wandering out again through the drawbridge, we descended the steep hill up which we had come, and watched the in@habitants, as, in the cool of sunset, they came riding in with their various burdens upon their mules. Many of them were loaded with grass and ferns for provender, and some with sticks, and some had tolerably heavy barrels slung on each side of their  long-suffering mule was heavily weighted. A barrel on either side, a sack of hay, and a big lad of fifteen or sixteen was at first his load to which presently was added an additional boy, who climbed up behind and perched himself upon the sack of hay, as the poor mule plodded slowly uphill. This elder boy was assuredly one of the most beautiful of G@od's creations ever seen. The grace and symmetry of his figure and movements were perfect, as with supple, bare brown feet pressing against the mule's sides, he urged on the patient beast his features were faultless, and his splendid eyes were almost hidden by the long lashes that matched the short coal-black curls under his ragged cap. Poor beast ! said No. 3, as the mule passed how tired he is ! For one felt one must see those dark eyes raised. They were raised, as the boy glanced up at us with the scowl of a beautiful demon then, suddenly changing his mind as he caught our friendly looks, a smile broke over the chiselled mouth and flooded  eyes and, in an instant, the demon became an angel. I would have given a five-franc piece to have sketched that boy, but it would have been almost as much as one's life was worth to have asked him to stand. A little further on came an old wayfarer, ragged and infirm, leaning heavily upon his stick, and followed closely by a little sheep. When I spoke to the old fellow, the sheep paused too, and looked up in my face like a dog and when its master held out his brown withered hand, ran up to place a warm nose lovingly within it. The poor man who had nothing save one little ewe lamb, which he nourished, and which lay in his bosom, and which was unto him as a daughter, is a well-known character in Corsica, where tame sheep often take the place of dogs, and are domestic favourites. In Bastia I have seen a sheep walk@ing leisurely down the pavement of the street, looking in at doorways and sniffing here and there quite at his ease, and quite disregarded, finally lying down in the  sleep upon the public pathway. And I remember one handsome sheep at Ajaccio that amused us greatly by its climbing powers. We had strayed out upon the shore a mile or two from the town, and were sitting down to rest by the sea, when a very grand coastguardsman passed us. His real motive was evidently curiosity, but his feigned one was expressed by the telescope in his hand, carrying which he mounted a ridge of rock hard by, to gaze out upon the unbroken horizon. The gold braid on his black and white uniform was fresh and telling and the tame sheep which followed his every foot@step was as white as snow. When the coastguardsman paused, the little sheep paused wherever he went upon the slippery seaweed-covered rocks dashed with spray, there followed she and, when he was about to pass us, she stared for a moment with frightened air, and then, with a little cry, tucked herself close to her master's side until we were left behind. Nearly all these Bonifacio people  and friendly, touching their caps and wishing us good evening. Military and naval uniforms gave the streets a gay air, and the inhabitants ap@peared of a less solemn disposition than most Corsicans. During the whole of our visit to the island, I never heard but one man or boy whistle, out of Bastia, Ajaccio, and Boni@facio and in the villages nothing but chorus singing is heard, and that of the most dismal kind, and but rarely. But here in Bonifacio, children, and even men, might be heard singing gay military airs about the streets. The Hotel du Nord gave us a terrible shock. How it ever got itself christened hotel, even in Corsica, is a mystery to me. The little stony street which led up to it was so steep and so narrow that we and our packages had to leave the carriage at the bottom, and climb up to the broken hovel-like doorway, which a swinging board informed our astonished eyes was the Entrance to the  stone step down into the darkness revealed before us a narrow, creaking, wooden staircase, up which we went wonder@ing, preceded by the polite maitre d'hotel. A door then opened on a little wooden land@ing, and showed a long dark room, kitchen and salle à manger in one, in which were already seated a good many Bonifacians, drinking red wine and smoking cheap tobacco. Through this room and its astonished inmates, we were led into two little apart@ments, each containing a bed, one of which was screened off so as to make the larger room a sitting-room. This was all the accommodation to be had but a third room was promised in another house for No. 2, when the military gentleman now occupying it should have departed, which he had promised to do before evening. It seemed incredible that there should be no better inn at a place like Bonifacio, one of the five principal towns in the island but so it was though the excellent fare and unceasing care and attention of the  landlord deserved every commenda@tion. This man's French was most extra@ordinary, and had it not been that he took such evident pride in its display, we should have informed him that his Italian was the more comprehensible but his kind@ness was excessive and his charges most moderate. He was particularly anxious to impress upon us the fact that a handsome house, now building in the main street, was his new hotel, which would be opened by next summer, so that we should have very different accommodation on our next visit. He also insisted strongly upon the cleanli@ness of his house, and his knowledge of the English prejudices against creeping beasts. Mesdames, said he, emphatically, pour chaque punaise que vous trauverez ce soir, vous pourrez me donner un soufflet demain matin ! With which handsome offer he led the way to the house, a few doors lower down the street, where was the extra apart@ment, making many apologies as to  state of untidiness, which would be remedied directly. Any place more cut-throat-looking than this room I never saw. It was a sort of long low garret at the very top of an apparently deserted house, up four or five flights of wooden stairs, and led out of another lumber garret, as bare and unfur@nished as itself. Don't sleep here, said No. 3 you will dream of brigands all night@@@ ! You will be choked with dust, and devoured by fleas, said No. 1. I hope they will clean it out, said No. 2, whose nerves were brigand-proof and I hope the house won't catch fire. But I shall sleep here. Our polite little landlord was right as to his immunity from the worst of nocturnal horrors. But he had been wary in omit@ting fleas from his penalty of a box on the ear ! Well, how did you sleep, mesdames ? he asked, as he brought us our breakfast at eight o'clock next morning. Very well, said two of  Ah ! he replied, triumphantly, I told you my house was clean ! But, said the third, quietly, twenty-seven fleas are a good many to catch at one sitting ! The poor man's face fell. Ah, peste ! said he, with a vexed air that militaire kept three dogs in his room. What is a man to do ? As for me, the beauty of the night alone prevented my sleeping. It seemed a shame to be lying idly dreaming when the clear moonlight outside was lighting up such weird beauties of nature. My little window looked down from the very summit of the citadel rock, over per@pendicular chalk cliffs, upon the dashing waves far, far beneath, where by daylight I had watched them playing over malachite stones and purple seaweed. All around stretched the bay, the chalk cliffs, and little detached stacks, grooved and hollowed by the wasting waters and the long promontory, edged by black rocks, jutting out into distant depths of blue Mediterranean. On this promontory  signal-house, and a lighthouse and at the extreme end of it was a curious natural rock, shaped like a broad watch-tower, with pagoda roof. But now, the bright moonlight shone on a black sea lit up by silver crests, and golden gleams from the distant lighthouse threw strange lights across little shadowy bays, whilst the detached rocks stood up like black ghosts raising fantastic heads towards the deep blue sky. All night long the sea moaned wild music ceaselessly, the rising wind tossing up white jets of spray to catch the silver moon@light, and increasing towards morning into a tempest cry.@@@ A  VI. CURIOSITIES OF BONIFACIO. THE history of Bonifacio is rich in stories of romantic sieges and heroic deeds of valour. In 833 a Tuscan Margrave, on his road home from Africa, first built a fortress there, calling it after his own name, Boni@facius he and his family becoming for nearly a hundred years the feudal lords of Corsica. In the beginning of the thirteenth cen@tury, the Genoese cast a prudent eye to@wards Bonifacio, and seizing upon it, they raised its almost impregnable fortifications, making it henceforth one of their chief centres. Special privileges were granted to the citizens, families were brought over from the mainland, and Bonifacio became the first Genoese colony in the  the next four or five hundred years, this great citadel sustained many a furious siege from various outsiders, and from the Corsicans themselves but always remained faithful to Genoa, and bid defiance to every foe in the conscious strength of its massive bastion walls. Many a time were the inhabitants brought to death's door by famine but their mar@vellous courage and endurance never failed them, and Bonifacio became a byword for impregnability. Often the women, as well as the men, assisted in the defence of the city and women, children, and old people voluntarily starved themselves, so as to reserve the modicum of food to strengthen the arms of the fighting men. On one occasion when, blockaded by the Turkish fleet and decimated by famine, they were vainly waiting for the succours for which they had sent, their unfailing spirit inspired them with the notion of a successful ruse. In the early morning, just before dawn, the enemy encamped outside heard sounds of joy coming from the beleagured  raised, drums beating, and bells ringing and when the sun rose, beheld detachments of foreign soldiers in fresh uniforms walking upon the city walls and filling the streets of the citadel. That this was the long expected help they could not doubt, although struck dumb with amazement and disgust to find that, under cover of the night, the enemy's forces had been able to land to the relief of the distressed city. It was only after the siege was raised, and the combat had ended in the triumph of the heroic defenders, that they discovered that the supposed foreign battalion was nothing more nor less than the wives and daughters of the citizens, who, in order to intimidate them and attain their own end, had played the part of those allies for whom their heart was sick with waiting. There was a bright sun and a high gale as Nos. 2 and 3 went out early to inspect some of the curiosities of Bonifacio. One glance at the foaming, boiling sea, told us that it would be impossible to visit the beautiful marine caverns for  chalk cliffs are famous, and which lie within a short rowing distance of the town. So we repaired to the celebrated Aragon staircase. For this purpose we had to seek the barracks, from whence presently issued a guide with a key. Entering through a doorway upon a part of the cliff walled off, we followed to the very edge of the preci@pice. Not till then did we see, overhanging the angry waves, the rough narrow stair@case, cut almost vertically down the face of the rock. On one side over-arched the chalk cliff, and on the other was a rough wall two or three feet high. If it had not been for this protective wall, we should infallibly have been blown over into the sea, as, frantically clutching our hats in the roaring wind, and leaving our umbrellas at the top, weighted down by stones, we prepared to descend the exceedingly steep and broken one hundred and ninety-four steps. This staircase, cut out by order of the then King of Aragon for a long time ally and feudal lord of Bonifacio ,  four hundred years ago, was intended, it is said, for the approach to his private landing stage but, at all times, this rocky bay must have been a most unsuitable, difficult place of embarkation for pleasure seekers, and it seems more probable that it was first hastily excavated by the in@habitants for the stealthy receipt of succours by sea. Anyhow, it is reported to have been useful on many occasions to smugglers and this seems more than probable from its appearance. What with wind and steepness, it took us some time to descend, and No. 3 was greatly incensed by the guide's offers of assistance, and his final remark, Made@moiselle a peur ? Do you think, she asked, wrathfully, that there are no rocks in England ? We live in an island, too ! The little platform of rock at the bottom was raised two or three feet above the level of the waves, and protected in front by a low stone wall, over which surf dashed. Loose rocks of chalk lay all about,  and over them played the swift water, turning its shallow rapids into richest, clearest green, brown, and orange hues. Sardinia was pale with the mist of the sirrocco and the bouches between us raged in a storm of white breakers. On the little plateau below lay a sheet of that surf-loving mauve flower with which the lies Sanguinaires abound and also a quantity of a beautiful kind of ice plant, whose pointed, thick, light-green leaves glistened with an infinity of brilliant balls like dew-drops. After a tedious mount up again to the top of the staircase, and past the barracks, we were conducted to the Grand Moulin, where, from an artesian well beneath the surface of the sea, water is pumped up to the level of the cliff. This mill is only used in summer, and waters the gardens of les militaires. When there is not wind enough to move its sails, four men turn a large iron windlass on a little platform within. From this platform, on dropping stones, we found that they took sixteen  splashing into the water at the bottom. Three hundred and sixty steps reach from the land level to the water level and down these winding stone steps our guide was exceedingly anxious that we should go. He shut the door, and, carrying a lantern, desired us to follow him into the foul-smelling, dank, gruesome darkness. But thirty-five steps led to the first plat@form, and here we struck work, greatly to the man's disgust. But things creeping innumerable bedecked the yellow walls, and monstrous beetles, two inches long, scuttled by and, with petticoats well tucked up, we retreated upstairs incontinently, notwith@standing our guide's remonstrances, and his assurances that this was far finer than the other staircase, and decidedly the greatest curiosity in Corsica, if not in the world. Very glad was I to escape from insect clutches, and wander out beyond the town to seek some sketching spot in the open, sweet air. This I found on a little path  main road up to the citadel, and cut in the grassy slope of the cliff. A very difficult position it was to main@tain this windy morning, and I really thought sometimes that both I and my juvenile crowd of attendants would be blown bodily over the cliff-side on to the highway far below, to the astonishment of passers-by. The Bonifacio children I found extremely curious, but withal well-behaved. Finding that they could not be induced to retire, I made use of them and one held down the flapping page of my sketch-book, while another held my umbrella over my head. We became very good friends, and they were exceedingly anxious not to inter@cept my view, but the brisk fire of ques@tioning kept up by them added another difficulty to a rapid sketch. Garlic and conversation, however, had to be endured, as their politeness did not go the length of making themselves scarce. Even the offer of a handful of sous as soon as the carriage came up, could not induce them to disperse,  persuasion of one of their number, a pretty boy of about eleven. Finding that his companions would not move, he turned to me, and took off his cap. Madame, said he, with the air of a courtier, I go not for the sake of sous, but because you desire it. I have tried to make these others come, but they will not. Sir, replied I, to the small but courteous Corsican, you are a gentleman. And the brown-eyed, dignified boy walked off, not to be seen again.  reach Sartene on our return, after a hot and dusty drive. We had ordered a relay of horses from Ajaccio next day, to meet us half-way between Sartene and the capital, so as to do the whole return distance in two days and we quite looked forward to our snug little rooms at l'Hotel de l'Univers. But, alas ! for the futility of human hopes ! No sooner did shades of eve prevail, and the moon tell out her wondrous tale, than Nos. 2 and 3 found themselves sur@rounded by a black and scarabean army. From every direction swarmed these un@pleasant visitors in bold assurance, and nothing daunted by the sight of their brethren's corpses upon the polished floor. In this dilemma we called in the deaf  waiter, who solemnly fetched a dustpan and brush, with which he per@formed the funeral obsequies of the dead, and the prompt execution of the living. You will now sleep well, mesdames, said he, consolingly, but unveraciously behold, they are all dead ! But he mocked us and another five minutes found us again demanding assist@ance, whilst, with disturbed faces and gathered up petticoats, we strove to evade the approaching enemy. This time the landlord accompanied the waiter. Why do the black beetles come to-night ? There were none last time, we asked, reproachfully. Voila, mademoiselle, they @will come sometimes, and we cannot help it. The kitchen is on this floor, and there has been a spell of hot weather. But they will not hurt you, mademoiselle, they do not bite. Ah ! said we, miserably, you do not know English ladies. They have a horror of creeping beasts. We would rather have something that did bite, than a room full of black  fat, good-natured countenance of the portly landlord was filled with compunction at the sight of our distress. He made another tour round our room, and crunched one or two more black beetles. There will not be many more now, mademoiselle, and indeed they will not hurt you. But shall I have beds made up for you in the sitting-room next door ? There might not be so many there. But this well-meant though useless offer we of course declined and, with a sympathetic good night on one side, and a melancholy one on the other, the two kindly Corsicans retired. At half-past five next morning I was awakened by shouts in the street outside my window, and going out into the large stone terrace upon which our windows all opened, I looked down upon a lively scene below. It was Sunday morning, and had been chosen as inspection day for the gendarmes of Sartene, by a certain M. le general, who was going the round of the island on suc@h @duties, and w@ho was stopping at our  First came the review of the mounted gendarmes, and then of the foot police. These latter were only fifteen in number, but seemed remarkably well up in their drill. M. le general, capering about on his. white horse, was a very gorgeous spectacle. His scarlet cloak was rolled up behind him as a saddle cushion, and his pistol holsters in front were striped black and white, while his own uniform was blue. The inspection lasted scarcely an hour but the general's shouts to his small body of soldiers might have been heard a mile off. It was a lovely sunny morning, and, as we were to leave for Ajaccio at 9 a.m., before eight o'clock No. 3 was out, tear@ing up the hill towards St. Amiens, with the purpose of sketching one or two of the picturesque wayside tombs which adorned that road. An early walk on Sunday morning is the time to see the natives in Corsica. The large church square just beyond the hotel where the gendarmes had been drilled, was full of men, three or four hundred, with, as far as could be seen, not a single  amongst them but descending the steep hill from St. Amiens were many neat, black-robed women returning, prayer@book in hand, from early Mass, and all saluting the English lady and her sketch-book with a grave surprised politeness. Men, women, and children, all riding mules, were also coming in from the country to spend their Sunday in town. The quiet gravity and the extreme tidiness of these holiday makers struck one forcibly. They all pursued their way in silence, the men usually with spotless white shirts appearing under their velveteen coats, and the younger women with clean, starched, white head-gear but both men and women totally destitute of either orna@ment or colour in their dress. It was a beautiful morning for a sketch, and the interruptions, though many, were not discourteous. Once No. 3 felt an animal's breath snort@ing on her neck, and turning round, saw a mule close behind, its rider, gun on back, looking over her shoulder with great interest. On her saying good morning to the  immediately smiled and lifted his cap and remarking that he wished he knew how to draw, he gave his mule a gentle kick and continued his way. Bon jour, mademoiselle, said a bright voice a few minutes later and, looking up, No. 3 saw an old woman standing before her. She evidently belonged to the lower orders, and was poor, although neatly dressed in a semi-conventual attire of black serge, edged with white, and wearing a long rosary and cross by her side. She appeared to be very old, and was toothless, and consequently a little difficult to understand, but had an upright carriage, and the sweetest and blithest of old faces. Good morning, said No. 3 you have been to church, I suppose ? Of course, mademoiselle. And not you ? I do not always go to Mass, replied No. 3 I am not of your religion. No, mademoiselle ? Ah ! what a pity ? You are English, mademoiselle ? Yes, madame. But they believe in Jesus in  do they not, mademoiselle ? said she, innocently. And where are you going now ? asked No. 3, when she had satisfied her old friend on this point. I ? Oh, I am off to visit my '@pauvres,' and my poor dear '@malades.' Do you visit them every Sunday morn@ing ? Why, every morning, mademoiselle ! But are there many malades in Sartene ? Oh yes, mademoiselle. There are always plenty who are sick and suffering, or infirm, or unhappy and they are glad to see me. They are all good to me, my poor children ! But you are so old yourself. Don't you .get tired, running about all day like that ? The old soul laughed merrily. I am used to it, mademoiselle, and le bon Dieu has given me strong legs. Some@times I am tired in the evening but I am longing to be off again next day. It makes one so happy to feel one can do something for le bon Dieu, though one is old and  are a sister ? asked No. 3. But you do not live in a convent, do you ? Oh no, mademoiselle, I have never lived in a convent. I live by myself, and amongst my children. Your poor children ? My poor and my sick children, mademoi@selle. You look very @happy, said No. 3, gaz@ing up into the wrinkled, beaming old face. T@he old sister suddenly bent down, show@ing a large brass ring on her forefinger, on which was carved a crucifix. Look, mademoiselle, she exclaimed,. kissing it reverently this is w@hat makes me happy ! Lui-c'est mon époux, mon ami, mon Dieu ! It was time to return homewards and as No. 3 got up, her new friend wrung both her @hands affectionately. Tell me your name, mademoiselle, she said, that I may know for w@hom to pray.@ And you, when you go to your Mass in England, you will remember old Catarina. Rinaldi, will you not ? @@@@And with a parting smile, the old  off briskly, her face shining with the reflection of the spring brightness on the wayside, down which she passed. Open air sermons are sometimes the best. At the bottom of the hill, a tall woman, bearing an enormous earthenware jar perched sideways upon her head, appeared suddenly and an intelligent boy of thirteen or fourteen also passing, was pounced upon by No. 3 to make known her wish to the country woman that she should pause a moment to be sketched. The black-eyed woman laughed shyly, but after a moment's hesitation consented, understanding apparently that it was her big pot only which was the attraction. But no sooner did she find out that her face also was to be inserted in the sketch, than, with unfeigned fright, she covered it with her hands and prepared to run away. A short argument followed, in which both No. 3 and her interpreter endeavoured vainly to reassure the model but it proved useless, and, still keeping her hands before her brown face, she presently hurried  of the sneers of her juvenile but more highly educated countryman. What on earth frightens her ? asked No. 3. How can I tell, mademoiselle ? Behold, these country women are so ignorant and stupid ! replied this youthful Solon, with a shrug. Do they believe in the evil eye in Corsica ? Maybe. A few foolish ones. Perhaps she does ? It may be so, mademoiselle. She is but an uneducated woman from the hill@side. No. 3's new friend walked home beside her, and was an exceedingly agreeable companion. He spoke very good French, and his stature, which was small but dignified, was augmented by a large shiny black hat. No. 3 felt quite glad of his manly escort as she passed through the great square again. Are there no women in Sartene ? she asked, or do they never come out of doors  come out in the evening, made@moiselle, and walk about but they never leave their houses in the morning, unless it is to go to Mass. They have plenty to do indoors. And the men do nothing ? It is not a man's place to do household work, replied the young man, with evasive dignity. The carriage was at the hotel door as the two came up, and the young Corsican took off his cap politely as we drove away. From Sartene to Ajaccio is a nine-hours' drive, without any pause and of course cannot be done without a change of horses half-way. These we had ordered at Bechisano, but they did not arrive, and great was Antonio's disgust when we had finally, after an hour's waiting, to drag on our tired horses to Grosseto, where w@e found the fresh couple awaiting us. We, however, had no objection to an hour's rest in the village of Bechisano, where, sending away horses and driver for rest and refreshment, we got rid of  and cheese, and began to take a woman's portrait. The crowd around us increased every moment, and before long I had counted seventy-five heads, all jammed close beside the carriage. But they were the most pleasant and friendly of people. Conver@sation became exceedingly animated, and the pretty, sensible-faced woman who, with jar and bimbo, acted as our model, became the object of much harmless chaff. Finally, amid a great deal of laughter, an innocent-looking old cretin, with a childish face, was dragged forward as a fit and very willing subject for our pencils. But one and all, though full of merriment, were perfectly obliging and courteous and even the children pulled one another off the carriage, admonishing each other not to shake the artists. One boy's face struck me by its rare and peculiar beauty. It was of a deep olive, perfectly oval and his delicately curved lips never lost their gentle gravity as he kept his large liquid brown eyes with their heavy fringes fixed upon us, leaning his head against the carriage,  our remarks in one or two gentle monosyllables. I never saw a greater con@trast than there was between this pale, beautiful, refined boy-countenance, and the face of a poor little girl behind him. She was dirty and untidy, ugly to an extreme, and with evil passions expressed on the childish features to an unnatural degree. The slightest push caused her to scowl and retort, with a malignant anger in her fierce black eyes that was positively appalling. This small Corsican seemed more than ready to start a vendetta on her own account before long. We were still sitting laughing and sketch@ing in the carriage, surrounded by our numerous admirers, when I heard an astonished voice at my elbow. Had you not better walk on a little, and so get rid of all these people ? And looking down, I saw Antonio's grave face, a little more serious than usual. It was clear he regretted our want of dignity, and did not admire such bonhomie in the foreign ladies under his care. We like the people, Antonio  us, said I apologetically, and feeling sure that by the remark I was losing caste in his eyes. Antonio immediately retired a few steps, and sat down upon a low wall behind the carriage in silence, keeping, however, a scrutinizing watch upon us and our sur@rounders, and ready to pounce fiercely upon the first boy whose audacity might tempt him to scale the coachman's box. And before long Nos. 2 and 3 had taken his advice and walked on, leaving No. 1 alone in the carriage to hold levée with the assembled multitudes. A terrific shower forced them, however, soon to rush to the nearest shelter, which consisted of a large rough-looking wooden house beside the road. Entering within the doorway, they stood in a deserted passage, full of logs of wood, and from one end of which ran a tall wooden ladder-the family staircase up to the habited rooms. Down this ladder, pre@sently, peered several small pairs of bright eyes, soon augmented by a detachment of female faces, all grinning and  hastily when we showed signs of advancing. After a time, however, one, bolder than the rest, beckoned us hospitably upstairs and, rather curious to see the family ménage, up the steep ladder we went. We found a low dark room, almost un@furnished, save for two or three wooden stools, on which, and on the floor before the hearth, sat four or five women, and as many children, enjoying the blaze of the log fire. Their gossip appeared very merry, and they fell into shrieks of laughter over the attempted Italian of Nos. @2 and 3. Of French they could neither speak nor under@stand a single word, except one woman, who with many smiles offered us each a stool before the fire, remarking with much dignity, Moi, je suis le maître de cette maison. Ceux-la, pointing to her group of friends, sont les femmes des canton@niers ! There was a great deal of laughter over our endeavours to parcel out the right children to the right mothers, and a  at first to accept t@he few sous we brought out as a thankoffering for the fire and shelter. The difference between the Corsican men and women often struck us the former so grave, reticent, and thoughtful the latter so merry, gay, and careless. On the road back to Ajaccio, Antonio became communicative, and talked of many things. Sartene, he said, was not famous for its peaceable character in this somewhat un@peaceable island. In Sartene the fashionable weapon, however, is no firearm, but a heavy knobbed stick akin to an Irishman's shillelagh. Nearly every man carries one of these, as we had noticed, underneath his arm, but with no idle idea of assistance in walking. In a quarrel these heavy club-@headed sticks can do great execution and, as the men are always quarrelling, broken heads are tolerably common, and murder not unknown. Last night, said Antonio, I was in the stable, and a young man was with  Presently another entered, and after a few minutes picked a quarrel with the first. I didn't heed them much, for I was looking after my horses. But pre@sently I heard a blow, and saw one of them fall flat on his back. The other fellow had hit him on the head with his stick, and he seemed dead. What did the assailant do ? I asked was he shocked ? Antonio smiled his quiet amused smile. He walked off. No, he was not shocked at all. And you ? I did what I could. I put some straw under the young man's head, and gave him water and in about an hour he got up and went out. Is he much hurt ? Oh, he will have a broken head for some time. And what will he do to his assaulter ? Break his head next time he sees him ? Perhaps he may do that, too. But he will go this morning and lay the case before the  what will be done to the man who knocked him down ? Oh, he will be fined. A queer mixture of law and barbarism appears to co-exist in Sartene. Antonio, I asked, as we passed through village after village full of idling men, standing at street corners, whilst the church bell vainly called for Vesper worshippers, do the men in Corsica never go to church ? Have they no religion ? Not much, mademoiselle. They seldom go to a service unless there is some grand procession, and, for the most part, they do not themselves know what they believe. They are not staunch Roman Catholics, like the Italians ? The Jesuits are banished from Corsica, mademoiselle. They taught much, and the people miss that. Then the French have brought in new ideas, and many of our men have learnt to scoff, from them. Are not the priests respected, then? Are they not good ? Some are good, and some are bad, mademoiselle but the people do not  to them. Sometimes, monks will come round the villages preaching, and they do good, for they are holy, and the men listen to them. Do the priests never try to stop the vendetta ? How can they ? Those that are quarrel@ling would not listen to them. And for that matter, you may see a priest himself sometimes walking about with a dagger or a pistol at his belt. But only to defend himself ? Well, yes to defend himself, replied Antonio, a little doubtfully. Antonio, said I, do you think it right to shoot your enemy down ? No, I do not think it right. But, if he had shot one of your family, would you do it ? Antonio was silent. He was a calm, but a very truthful young man. Would you ? I asked again. I don't know, mademoiselle. A man cannot tell what he may do in anger. But it would be murder, said I and now you have courts, where your enemy would receive due  if @he got off meanwhile to the macchie, asked Antonio, his dark eyes gleaming with a spice of mischief, and was never seen again what then ? Well, I said, after a pause, you must be a difficult race to manage. The Corsicans quarrel amongst them@selves sometimes, mademoiselle and they kill one another sometimes but they are a quiet people on the whole. They are con@tent to live upon little, they neither beg nor steal nor work, he might have added , and they make no commotions. If there is any disturbance in the country, it is caused by Italians. There are more Italians than French in the island, and they are very rough and disorderly. If ever a stranger is molested it is by the Italians. No Corsican will ever speak rudely to you, mademoiselle. There are certainly no begging propen@sities about the Corsicans. It had been with the greatest difficulty that we managed to make the bimbo's mother at Bechisano allow her baby to clasp a fifty-centime piece in his chubby hand, after refusing  for her good-natured pose of a quarter of an hour opposite our carriage. But Antonio's eloquence on the subject of Corsican docility rather lost its effect upon me, owing to the peculiar character of one of our new relay of horses. He was a great raw-boned brute about sixteen hands high, who reared upright at starting, and showed a strong disposition to bolt the first few miles-a disposition only checked by the extreme stolidity of his companion, who stumbled over his nose every few steps. N'ayez pas peur, mademoiselle, said the grave voice at my side, consolingly I know him well he will do no harm. That fellow who rears is twenty-three years old but he is much the best of the two. But the '@padron@' should not have sent such horses for you. In fact, with any driver less skilful or less careful than ours, I doubt if we should ever have reached Ajaccio that night and we were reminded that it behoves travellers in Corsica to choose their horses before start@ing on a journey. @@@A  VIII. TO VICO. A FEW days' quiet at Ajaccio, was quite suffi@cient for us. The hotel, lately so lively, was now completely deserted, and even the white-capped chamber-maids had taken flight until next season. We had the large rooms completely to ourselves, and found them melancholy. The town, too, was hot and stuffy. Everybody w@as moving up to their summer houses, and the close air was depressing. We were glad to arrange another tour to the north-west of the island, including the forests of Aïtone and Valdoniello. The first night was to be spent at Vico, a village up amongst the hills, a favourite resort of the upper ten of Ajaccio in summer. It was a good six-hours' drive to  and, as we wished to see something of its surroundings, which we were told were very pretty, we started before eight o'clock in the lovely morning sunshine. The carriage was a small one, for we took little or no baggage, and only two pas@sengers. To No. 1, called away on a promised visit to Italy, we bade a melan@choly farewell, and, with the faithful Antonio for charioteer, trotted through the blazing little town, down the dusty Bastia road, and under the handsome aqueduct along the flanks of the western hills, leaving the sea behind us glowing in vivid sapphire tints against the purple hills. Toiling up the hot, rocky ascent, Monte Nebbio and Monte D'Or mocked us with cool, snow-mantled forms rising in our faces, and the large château on the top of a steep hill termed Monte Lisa, was pointed out to us as a favourite resort to many during the summer heat. For miles, also, the great purple rock of Monte Gozo towered bleak and majestic before us, rising abruptly from the green plain, and reminding one, as it  blackness over t@he far-reaching glare, of a great shadow in a thirsty land. Corn-fields waved softly at its foot, the corn rising five feet high and the village of Appieto nestled in its shade behind green knolls. Glimpses of the western sea began to greet us as we mounted, and at the summit of the steep Col San Sebastiano, a splendid panorama lay before us, in many a range of blue and purple hills, backed by glittering walls of snow. Then, descending to Calcatoggio, the magnificent Gulf of Sagona suddenly burst upon us, dazzlingly blue, and stretching far away in its many indented ba@ys, with Carghese, scarcely visible, lying between the two furthest headlands, far out to sea. Calcatoggio, on the side of a steep hill, backed by woods and facing this glorious bay, has a most perfect position, but enjoys the reputation of being a remarkably dirty village. It boasts, however, a fountain of delicious water at its entrance, where we and our horses by turns regaled ourselves. A more exquisite day I never saw,  and sky were dazzling in t@heir sunny brilliancy as our little carriage ran merrily down the green hill-sides, overlooking the purely green water, and then for miles passing along beside its translucent, spark@ling little waves, as they danced upon their sandy floor. The Gulf of Liamone was too tempting to pass and, leaving the carriage, we wandered along the fine white sands, seeing every weed and pebble in the wonderfully clear water. No shells, however, were to be found, and the hot sand burnt our feet and hands as we flung ourselves down to rest. On clambering up the bank again and returning to the carriage, No. 3 found Antonio extended upon the box, face down@wards, wrapped in heavy slumber, that even her advent did not disturb and he only sprang up hastily, seizing his reins, at the sound of her voice. Antonio had shown signs of nodding ever since the mid-day halt, and an unworthy suspicion of drink had seized upon our  are sleepy to-day, remarked No. 3, severely. Si, mademoiselle, was the curt reply. Is it the heat ? she demanded, without abating the severity of her tone. Si. And being up all last night. Up all last night ! she repeated, mollified at once. How did that happen ? A party in Ajaccio had to be driven into the Campagne late last night, and I only got home at six this morning. Then I got a message from the @padron to tell me you wanted me for half-past seven. So I had to see after your carriage and horses at once. Poor Antonio ! No wonder he was sleepy. We soon became convinced that he w@as the most abstemious of men but it was no rare event for him to be out driving all night, and at work again all day without rest. They give the horses more rest than you, I said. Yes but night and day work would injure the horses, and I am  you have your Sundays free? I asked. But no. Sundays and week days are all the same to us. Have you no holidays ? None, mademoiselle. I have been at this work driving now for nine years, ever since I was fifteen, but I have never had more than an hour or two to myself at a time. If I had time to study and raise myself, he continued wistfully, I should seek some better métier than this. Well, said No. 3, it is, at any rate, a very pleasant and healthy occupation and a man who has grown accustomed to the open air would not be happy at se@dentary work. Antonio's white teeth gleamed as he smiled affirmatively. It is the best occu@pation in the world for happiness, said he a man cannot quarrel or get into trouble by himself and one feels always light@hearted in the open air. But one may have too much of anything. Sagona, which we passed soon after, is a tiny village, boasting two or three eucalypti,@ and a little quay the size of a  here, the river Liamone, one of the most considerable in Corsica, throws itself into the sea, after its many tortuous wind@ings among the intricate maze of hills around Vico. Leaving the sea border soon after passing Sagona, we struck inland through cystus-covered hill, bright poppy-sprinkled cornfield, and willows whispering and sighing among a sea of giant bracken fern here and there, underneath a bit of grateful shade, where myrtle, laurestinus, and arbutus edged the hot wayside then on, amongst wild and rugged hills, where lizards, green and black, with bright eyes and supple tails, glided rapidly up the face of yellow rocks, and where a long black serpent was sunning himself in the grass by the roadside. On-@@until suddenly the reins were flung down, and, with a quick leap, Antonio was off his box, and mutely pointing to a pretty fern-shaded fountain close beside us, a fountain boasting three spouts, under which three human heads were instantly bending, to emerge a minute afterwards, dripping and  any one wishes to gain a notion of the divine nectar of Olympus, let him travel on a hot June day under a Corsican sun, walking up a few of the steepest hills and then let him apply his thirsty mouth to one of the mountain rivulet-fed fountains placed here and there along the wayside by a philanthropic government. It is a nectar to be found only in Olympus the valleys know it not. And now, as we drove on up the steep ascent, we were looking down into a deep close valley where a long, low, red-roofed building, strangely isolated, marks the springs of Caldonelli, formerly much thought of for their medicinal qualities, but whose wretched accommodation and low-lying situation are now deserted for the more genteel and con@venient baths of Guaguo on the heights above. Grand rocks and richly wooded hills, the resort of the wild boar, the deer, and the moufflon, surrounded us as we mounted higher and higher, towards a cloudless sky, where, over stony heights, looked down the splendid range of Monte Rotondo's  until at length we reached the summit of the Col St. Antoine, nearly five thousand feet high, with Vico at our feet, and a cool wind blowing over the heads of mountain ranges innumerable below, and from the skirts of the white-robed monarc@hs all around. Just behind Vico, lying amongst its green and ilex-covered hills, rose the fine rocky range of Monte Libbio, full of queer pointed peaks, La Sposata, the hooded wife, conspicuous amongst them. Up the road came many a Vico proprietor, bowing to us courteously, and reining up his terrified mule on the very edge of the steep precipice with the most perfect un@concern. The hill was terribly steep, and the turn at the bottom very sharp, but we drew up in style before Pozzo di Borgo's Hôtel de France. The title was very grand, but the inn was neither above nor below the usual average of Corsican inns. It was not appallingly dirty neither, on the other hand, was it agreeably clean. A short rest during the terrible heat  and then  the land. Feeling the sun still too hot for walking, we sat and sketched by the roadside, finding plenty of amusement. Up and down the road, to and from the forests, came the heavy charrettes laden with pine-wood, and drawn by sure-footed patient mules decorated with high spikes of wood on either side of the collar, and a pointed hood of leather, of Capuchin shape, between then a flock of pretty goats, then some smiling women with laden heads, men on mule-back, and finally, a little girl, who, after regarding us with curiosity for a minute or two, ran back and presented us with her nosegay. Soon afterwards, sauntered up a big, black-eyed, black-bearded man, dressed very poorly, but with a keen intelligent face, who, after wishing us good evening, sat down on the wall beside us for a good chat. This man was very dirty, and his beard appeared to have a tendency to run down his chest where the ragged open shirt  bare but he was a good talker, and had plenty to say for himself. As usual, he opened the conversation by inquiring our nationality and our destina@tion, asking also the name of our coachman, and approving of our choice of Antonio, dubbing him un charmant garçon, and a friend of his. The friendship, however, appeared unre@ciprocated, as Antonio, next morning, on being questioned about some of the affirm@ations of our new acquaintance, remarked, with his usual brevity, and with a somewhat scornful lip, Ah ! @he said so ? Voilà ! he is a blagueur ! But we speedily diverged to more im@portant topics, and it appeared that our companion was a literary and patriotic character. Corsica, he said, was in a bad way, but the abolition of the Jesuits was the best thing that had ever been done for her. He himself had laboured night and day to get a Protestant priest for Vico. He was not a Protestant himself-no but that was not of so much account. What they wanted was some one who would preach to  people about the evils and necessities of their daily life some one who had common sense and religious feeling, not a man who @could do nothing but beg, and talk about the infallibility of the Pope. He had written a letter to the Patriot newspaper on the subject he often wrote letters for the papers. In fact, our friend evidently be@longed to the liberal party of more advanced thinkers in the island. His remarks were full of shrewdness, not unmixed with con@ceit and a little bombast and he was a very different specimen from the ordinary Corsican. He boasted that he was the best guide in Corsica and pointed out to us a high conical hill rising just above, where he said the wild boar would now be disporting themselves in no mean numbers, and where, last season, he had escorted one or two German gentlemen to first-rate sport. Below this wooded hill, on the slope of the lower one, hanging above the gorge where winds the silver thread of the Liamone, stands a picturesque white con@vent, now disused, but making a lovely pic@ture against its background of circling hills and groves of  this expedition for the morning, we bade adieu to our communicative friend, and turned in the opposite direction, pass@ing through the village, and descending the hill past the tall wooden cross which guarded its entrance, through most lovely scenery. In every direction rose forest-covered hill, snowy Alp and rocky height, while far below, two rivers shone and gurgled through the bastioned valley. The sun was setting over mountains of every hue and form, and cast@ing deep shadows on the rocks below birds were singing in all the groves, and little mountain streams ran from mossy bed and ferny hollow across the roadway. The path before us was like some vision of patriarchal times. Flocks of goats and kids were coming home to shelter, none driven, but all follow@ing the master's footsteps, coming to his voice, many a one running alongside like a dog, or putting up a soft nose to be caressed, little kids of every colour danced in and out amongst them, skipping up into the air, or standing playfully on their hind legs to butt at each  man, as @he passed, offered his salutation with the same grave politeness, and only the younger ones so far forgot their manners as to stand still a moment to stare at the strangers. It was almost dark and quite cool when we returned to our inn, and to a dinner which is worthy of record. It commenced with some good chicken broth, after which followed an entrée of half a boiled fowl. This was succeeded by the third course, made up of the other half of the fowl, nicely stewed and, after some boiled peas, the meal closed with the piece de resistance of a whole roast fowl ! Broccia and dessert succeeded, whilst our minds were engaged in a melancholy cogi@tation as to whether the three courses of the immortal Gladstone bore any resemblance to these. But we had not yet solved this perplex@ing question, when the anticipation of a seven-o'clock breakfast and early walk on the morrow, sent us to bed amid serenades of countless nightingales varied by the less agreeable concert of two poor  the agonies of hooping-cough on one side, -two or three snoring women with cast-iron lungs on the other,-and, overhead, a lively family, consisting of a squalling bab@y whose long-suffering mother found it neces@sary to walk it up and down incessantly , and a man whose chief nocturnal occupation appeared to be throwing his very heavy hob@nailed boots from one end of the room to the other whether to intimidate his off@spring or the numerous rats I could not decide . I would willingly have strangled that baby, and put corks down the mouths of those snoring women for the partitions of a Corsican inn are terribly thin but the power was not mine. The varying torments had to be borne until the twitter of birds and the rosy sunlight came creeping in through the open window to bid me rise, sadder and wiser by one more experience of the comforts ? of a night's rest in Corsica ! Forde CHAPTER IX. EVISA AMONG THE HILLS. BEFORE eight o'clock next morning we were descending the gorge opposite the house, in order to mount it on the other side, and visit the picturesque convent. Our coffee and dry bread had been served to us at half-past seven by the chamber@maid. This important person was represented by a pretty rosy-cheeked girl of twelve, who combined her chamber duties with those of waitress, and who, at this stage of the morn@ing, was attired in a déshabille of nightdress body and coloured petticoat, with bare feet. Later on, when we returned from our walk, she was in full dress, having added a white head handkerchief, black jacket, white stockings, and shoes. This Vico walk was one of the  enjoyed in t@he island. T@he steep road that climbed up the hill-side was shaded by oak and ilex trees numberless sparkling streams dashed down from above and beneath us, and brilliant cyclamen nestled everywhere lovingly amongst the ferns-bracken, felix mas, parsley, walrue, maiden-hair, and polypodium-luxuriating on this damp hill-side. Below us writhed the serpentine Liamone before us rose the great brown walls of the Monte Libbio rocks and each corner that we turned, showed new gorges, fresh wooded hills upon one side, and more exquisite ranges of steepest rocks and purest snow mountains on the other. The convent, old and grey, its walls encrusted with damp and half hidden by clustering weeds, was a strongly built edifice, overlooking the very edge of the precipitous slope, and bearing the usual mixed likeness to a church and a fortress. It looked sad, silent, and deserted now and was a strange contrast to a gaudy but handsome little family chapel in course of erection a few yards  was built of black and white marble, Florentine fashion, with an enormous crucifix inside, and family shields outside the walls, with here and there niches for the coffins of its owner's family. A little lower down the road is a rough-looking farmhouse, where lodgings are let in summer to those of the Ajaccio elite who care to rough it in this lovely scenery. As we turned homewards, the shadows were retreating from the roadway, and the sun's power was growing intense. We were glad to rest upon the low stone bridge, where arbutus overhung the way, and where the cool moss beneath was dripping under the spray of the little river. A cuckoo was calling through the tree-tops merrily, while the mother goats, creep@ing into the shade, cried to their wandering kids and a woman, standing on a rock above us, shading her eyes from the glaring sun, beckoned to her children playing in the valley far below, shouting, Maria ! O Maria ! 0 Santo ! in her sing-song, chant-like voice across the sultry air. By ten o'clock we were in the carriage  a village nearly 2800 feet above the sea level, where we were to spend the next night, and which is the best starting-point for the forests of A@ïtone and Valdoniello. The ascent to the top of the Col Sevi, 1600 feet high, was long and steep, with grand views, lying through many a wild and rugged hill varied by chestnut groves@, through which gleamed the everlasting snow barriers on every side. Then through ilex woods, soft and shady, with many a sylvan glade between their gnarled, huge, moss-hugged trunks past the village of Renno hanging overhead, and other hamlets, to more barren hills, and on to the summit of the Col, where a new range of snow mountains lay before us, glistening in the hot sun and cool puffs of sudden wind. The descent from here into the valley of Christianiccia is singularly wild and beauti@ful. Our gallop down, accomplished, as it could have been, at such a pace, only by Corsican horses and a Corsican driver, was all too short to drink in the beauty of vary@ing views, of grandest perpendicular  graceful ilex woods interspersed with castellated boulders, overhanging the road@side. Such a gallop, however, is delightful and inspiriting over a soft, park-like road, with snow cones peeping out of a blue curtain, with aromatic odours flying by, and with beasts that never lose their foot@ing. It is a dream of cool enjoyment that one would willingly lengthen. The entire population of the village of Christianiccia appears to consist of boys and as we drove quickly up the stony street, pursued by scores of these yelling and hooting inhabitants, Antonio's whip was in unaccustomed requisition, and one of Mr. Lear's grasshopper pigs, the first we had seen in the country, narrowly escaped being run over. From Christianiccia to Evisa is an arduous mount, somewhat resembling the side of a house but now, on the left, appears the glorious blue rock called the Capo dei Signori. On the summit of this great rocky wall once stood a castle belong@ing to one of the old feudal lords of Corsica hence its name. But not a vestige of  now visible upon the majestic purple peak, which seems to brave the fickle elements, looking over many an intervening mile of hill and vale to the distant sheet of western sea. And as we turned the abrupt corner of the road to enter Evisa, other glorious blood-red rocks came in view, only half hidden by the nearer hillocks-the rocks of Porto. The situation of Evisa is bleak and un@protected, and in winter it must be bitterly cold. Bare rocky mountains surround it on every side, and not even a chestnut-tree relieves its wild nakedness. Even now, a cold frosty air was blowing, and, although the sun was hot, a thick jacket was agreeable. M. Carrara's house is still the resort of travellers. He is a polite wood-merchant, and it is supposed to be a private house but, except for the fact that there is rather less to eat and a little more to pay than elsewhere, it is the same as other inns. Praise, however, be given where praise  We could get neither butter, honey, nor soup for lunch, and the fare altogether was economic but the young lady of the house, who condescended to wait upon us, was both pleasant to talk to and to look upon, and spotless cleanliness reigned in the little bedrooms. As soon as we had eaten our omelette, supplied to our hungry appetites on the principle of the acute preacher, who always stopped before he had satisfied his audience, we strolled out down the road towards the rocks of Porto. About three quarters of a mile from the village, we came to a little break in the road, where a pathway had been beaten down over the brow of the hill. This pathway led over an old cemetery, lying close beside the road, without palings or protection of any sort. A little rough stone building, a few yards from the road, and not more pretentious than an ordinary cottage, was the now disused cemetery chapel and numberless little wooden crosses, black and white, but none laying claim to any artistic value, were  about-some standing, and some ruth@lessly uprooted and crushed beneath the cart wheels-to mark the now desecrated resting-places of the poor villagers of Evisa. The church of Evisa stood below, half a mile away, and no doubt was now the fashionable burial-place but had I been a native of the village, I would have chosen this exquisite hill-side for my last resting-place. Of all the beautiful scenes witnessed in Corsica, perhaps this was the wildest and the grandest. On one side, the grey and purple rocks of the Capo dei Signori in front, twelve miles away by road, the wide stretch of blue sea, casting up a thousand sparkling dew-dro@ps to the bluer sky and, on the other side, rising up from a fathom@less gorge just below us, the blood-red rocks of Porto. These rocks are impossible to describe their grandeur can only be felt, as-from many a shuddering abyss, where the lonely sea-gull circles with faint shrill calls among misty horrors-they rise almost perpendicularly to their fearful height, seamed and notched by many a  but calm, and cruel, and forsaken-looking in their homeless inaccessible soli@tudes. Leaving the little path, we clambered down the rocks a short way, and sat in the silence opposite these glorious, fearful rocks. Not a sound w@as to be heard but the gulls' cries, and the stream far away, and, close to, the gentle rustling of the count@less little lizards among the green rocks beside us. We sat so still that they grew quite tame, and played around us unsuspectingly. One couple especially amused us. They had a lizard game of romps, chasing each other round our rock with incredible swiftness, whisking out of each other's way, and gently biting each other's tail when caught. Rain at last drove us home and we were glad of a good wood fire to sit over in the chilly evening, whilst the clouds dropped below the village, hanging in thick white opaque swathes across the hills before us, or chased each other, far beneath, hiding the valley in rain, whilst we were enjoying a passing gleam of  evening was clear again and, for the first time in Corsica, we heard the national singing, which continued long after we had retired. It was not musical, nor beautiful, but was the weirdest, strangest vocalism I ever heard. For more than an hour, a party of young men slowly paraded the village street, singing the same melancholy-sound@ing chant, sometimes in unison and some@times in parts, but always ending in the same prolonged note. The tune, such as it was, seemed always to be in a minor key, and would well have suited one of the national voceri, or dirges, but I have no idea of the words accom@panying it. This final note is a characteristic of Corsican singing, and rarely omitted and it is wonderful to what an extent they will prolong it. Even mothers, singing lullabys to their babes, indulge in it, and its effect is wild and uncommon. Forde CHAPTER X. GIANT FORESTS. THE day fixed for our forest expedition to A@ïtone and Valdoniello was wet and cloudy, and it was with many misgivings that we breakfasted at 7 a.m., and before eight o'clock started for our long day. The carriage, Antonio informed us, could take us the first five or six miles but after that, the road became too much out of repair for anything less than a waggon, and we must continue our way on mules. We had already, the evening before, seen the guide who was to escort us into the forest, and engaged him and his two mules. This guide was to meet us with his steeds at the forestier's cottage where our carriage was to be left. Ignoring the gentle spotting of raindrops and the general confusion of earth and  by the clouds resting in patches over the path before us, we turned our backs towards the rocks of Porto, and ascended the steep hill above the village, entering the inland intricacies of grand and barren rocky slopes, and, before long, creep@ing into the forest of A@ïtone. As we did so, the sun began to shine forth, throwing innumerable iridescent globules from every hanging branch, sweeping away clouds from before us, and rolling off mists from the white peaked range rising from the other side of the gorge. A@ïtone is composed of mixed pines and beeches but it has been terribly mutilated, and is now chiefly filled with young trees, the older ones having been nearly all cut down for sale. The pine-wood is of course very valuable for ship-building purposes but Corsica has taken so little pains to raise her reputation in the wood market, that these splendid trees are often sold in Italy, and even sometimes in the island herself, as of continental growth. Aïtone is comparatively a small forest, and, although its views are lovely,  Corsican forest, it is not so interest@ing, nor are its trees so imposing, as in many others. There is scarcely any break between it and Valdoniello, and it is, in effect, only a continuation of the latter enormous forest. In less than two hours we had reached the baiting place, and, dismounting from the carriage, proceeded to mount our two lanky mules. One bore the only side-saddle of which Evisa boasted, and the other an ordinary man's saddle. We had been in@formed the night before that one of us would be expected to mount this, and when we demurred, were told that otherwise we could not see the forest, as it was too far to walk. The guide, a big, fine-looking man, stolid as one of his own mules, appeared much perplexed by our hesitation-and no wonder, seeing that such w@as the invariable style of riding in fashion amongst his own country women but, after a moment's contempla@tion of the inevitable, No. 3 made a flying leap upon the back of her steed, arriving quite safely, and astonished to find how comfortable was the  the next two or three miles @we jogged on through ever-increasing depths of shade and thickness of trees, the sun@light only peeping in here and there across the cone-scattered path. The forests of Corsica, however, rarely lie upon a level. They grow generally upon the sides of hills so steep, that neither light nor view is for long hidden and wherever a tree grew thinly, or a little group had been cut down, spreading great arms across the road, there, through the gap, rose the perfect, glisten@ing snow peak of Monte Cinto, the highest mountain in Corsica, close beside us, steeply precipitous, and clothed with fir-trees on every ledge. Below, to the very edge of the deep valley, we looked over the forest tree tops while up above us, avenues of straight tall stems rose to a giddy height. The Pir Larriccio flourished here in abundance, a lovely variety of the ordinary fir-its bunch of dark green foliage only on the top, and its tall branchless stem often over 100 feet high. Many of these trunks, when felled, have been measured to be from 150 to 200 feet high and one or more  exceeded that height. The trunks are perfectly straight, and of great girth at the bottom and, as they are very tough to fell, they are usually burnt to a certain degree first. This custom is an unfortunate one for the beauty of the forest, as, when a strong wind blows, the smoke and flames will char and blacken many noble trees on either side. The forestiers, too, are careless in their work, and kill and injure ruthlessly many a noble monarch of the glade whose life is not required for the charettier. The Bocco di Vergio, or highest part of the forest of Valdoniello, is 4760 feet above the sea-level, and the main road across it was reported by the guide to be now in@distinguishable and unsafe from the deep snow which covered it so he led us by what he politely termed a lower route. This route consisted of a hill like the side of a house, covered with loose stones and fragments of broken timber, and up which was no vestige of any path whatsoever. Looking up its almost perpendicular face, one would have said that nothing less light and agile than a goat could  scaled its surface. But we soon found that our mules were intended to do so, and that we must stick on as best we could. We must have rolled, with concentrated force of the action of gravitation, down the hill had they slipped but, fortunately for us, they did not and by wriggling their bodies, eel-fashion, and occasionally leaping over a stout trunk or standing erect upon a small pointed boulder, they managed at length to reach the top in safety. A few more yards of easy climbing brought us to the summit of the Vergio, -treeless, bleak, cold and bare, rising nakedly out of its warm fringe of forest. Here we ate our bread and cheese, thank@ful to leave our rough-paced beasts, lying on the short dry turf, with snow on every side of us the big guide, a few yards off, face downwards, enjoying a heavy snooze. This man, who wore a velveteen coat and one wellington boat, boasted the his@torical name of Colonna. Historical names abound among the poor herdsmen and villagers of Corsica, and many a  has the blood of a grand old family in his veins. I remember one wayside friend whose clothes would scarcely hold together, whose cognomen was Pozzo di Borgo, and who, when I told him it was a good name, said, Yes, he had heard that the first of his family was a count. The capability for extemporary slumber possessed by Calonna was something extra@ordinary. If we did but stand still for a moment to admire the view, or stoop to gather some flowers, our heavy frien@d would promptly drop upon the side of the road like a log, generally with the cloaks he carried for us bundled under his head in a comfortable pillow. He was communicative, too, after his slow fashion. Do you find many @'continentale@' ladies who will ride upon this man's saddle ? we asked him. Yes. I have taken one lady on it this year beside you. She was German, how@ever, not English. They were a large party four gentlemen and one lady.  was stout-oh, very stout. At first she was frightened, and said she could not ride thus and, indeed, it was difficult to get her on. She had great fear at first but she soon got used to it, and said she liked it. Better than the mule did, perhaps ? we asked. Colonna looked at us stolidly. The com@prehension of a joke, however mild, was not in his nature. But having finished the last scrap of bread and cheese, and searched our pockets for the last raisin, for the frosty mountain air made us hungry, we called to our recumbent friend, and leaving the two poor mules dinnerless, and fastened by their bridles to a felled trunk upon the lonely plateau, we commenced our descent upon the other side. The view was magnificent we were surrounded on all sides by precipitous walls of snow rising abruptly from the lofty valley into which we were entering. Monte Cinto was on the one side, and Monte Artica on the other and  the slopes on either hand, and on into the valley far below for many miles. The main road here was again completely blocked up by snow, so the guide led us across the valley by a short cut, to emerge lower down where the route would be clear. Our descent, however, though shorter, was covered by deep snow, whereas the Bocca from which we started above was free. As it was also excessively steep and invaded by one or two treacherous little streams, burrowing underneath false snow arches, our steps were somewhat eccentric, and we had some difficulty in keeping up with the guide's long strides, as, at almost every footstep, we buried ourselves in snow up to the knees. We had just reached the little clearing at the bottom, preparatory to turning aside to the now clearer main route, when it began to rain.@@ @@Will you turn back ? asked the guide promptly it is going to rain all the rest of the day. It is only a mountain shower, said  should we turn back ? It will clear up directly. No, said Colonna, shaking his head solemnly, the clouds are very low. It will rain now all day. This was depressing, as a mountain guide ought to be expected to know his own mountains nevertheless we refused to re@turn, and all took refuge under the wooden balcony which ran along one side of a deserted garde forestier's house. The forest keepers live in pretty little wooden houses surrounded by small gardens, in every direction. They are superior, well-educated men, acting as overseers for Government over the timber clearings and fellings. Their position, in the heart of some lovely forest, surrounded by the most exquisite though lonely beauty, must be charming enough in summer but, in winter, all but blocked up by snow, and environed by miles of stern leafless sentinels, through whose bare and shuddering boughs a cutting wind incessantly moans and whistles, the life must be a very dreary one. The rain came down in bucketsful  was a vapour-bath, and the hills had totally disappeared and for some time it appeared as if Colonna's opinion was a correct one. More than once he reiterated his suggestion of returning, without, how@ever, moving our determination. We had not come a three-days' journey from Ajaccio, to spend two or three hours only in Valdo@niello, and be frightened by a sweep of mountain rain. Poor Colonna, resigned at last to his fate, had but just closed his eyes com@fortably, as, with folded arms, he leant against the earwig-covered house, seated upon the balcony-before the sun suddenly peeped forth again, the heavy clouds rolled away, and the rain-drops that yet fell became each a liquid opal. In another moment we were crossing over to the hill on our right, and entering the forest of Valdoniello. The sun was now brilliant, but it could penetrate but dimly through the thick veil of trees on either side. The road wound along the mountain side, with the precipitous fall of the hill above and below us, and boulders  way between the trees above. Pines and firs, mixed with here and there a sombre cedar or a gay larch, were the trees, the size of whose trunks far exceeded those of A@ïtone or perhaps Vizzavona. The steep slope of the mountain side beneath us, however thickly clothed, pre@vented the density of a level forest and wherever a break occurred in the fringe by the road-side, there appeared, on our left, a wonderful wall of red or grey granite, rising from the opposite side of the gorge like a huge rampart. The summit of this precipitous wall was draped in snow, and it looked as close as if a stone from us could have reached its hoary sides but the long lines of diminutive fir-trees, which ran up every available ledge on its frowning flank, showed its real distance. This great snow-covered pinnacle was Monte Cinto, over 9000 feet high. For miles we wandered on in this enchanted forest, down a rutty road, worn away by heavy waggon wheels, and im@passable for a carriage, but soft w@ith fir tendrils, and sweet with the delicious scent of  solitude was perfect the birds were taking their noon-day siesta, and the wind which soughed gently among distant pine-tops, and the torrent which gurgled at the foot of the gorge, played out their peaceful music, undisturbed by other sounds. At last we came to a sudden turn in the road, and the forest opening out a little, we looked down far below into the large valley of the Niolo, famed for. its fertility and the industry of its inhabitants. Far as the eye could reach it stretched away, with hills on either side-on one side clothed with dark forests and with the Golo, Corsica's largest river, running in silver windings from its source among the hills above. The river Tavignano, probably the next in size, also rises in this district, and the two lakes of Ino and Creno are situated in Monte Artica, close by. The people of Niolo are reputed to be the finest in Corsica, strong and intelligent, and alike famous in poetry and in arms. In the beginning of the sixteenth century, their sturdy patriotism caused them to be almost exterminated by their  the Genoese and, since then, the valley of Niolo has given birth to many a troublesome and adventurous bandit. The majority of the national voceri now in print appear to have been composed in the Niolese dialect, over Niolese bravos. This corner the guide evidently considered the correct turning-place, and suggested that we should retrace our footsteps. But as we had hired him and his beasts by the day, and the day was not yet nearly half over, we informed him firmly but politely that we intended to see a little more of this lovely forest. At the same time, we told him that, as we could not now possibly lose our way, he might rest and await our return at this corner, if it so pleased him. Colonna was rather disgusted he evi@dently considered that we had now walked as far as anything in the way of petticoats should walk. The fat German lady and her friends, he informed us, had turned before this and, with a look of dissatisfaction, he flung himself down on the sunny bank of rock facing the valley, whilst we continued on our way.  forest soon closed up again, and the Niolo was past but far above the tree-tops rose snowy peak and pinnacle, belonging to the Artica range, glittering in dazzling sunlight, and fringed almost to their summits by ridges of pines. We were rejoiced that we had persisted in going on, for the forest here was more beautiful than ever, and we agreed that Valdoniello, if anything, carries off the palm of exquisite forest scenery in Corsica. Quantities of mistletoe hung from the tree-tops, and troops of fat, shiny beetles, round and black, walked in procession down the road before us. Among the trees, peep@ing out of the patches of snow that still clung to the mountain side above us, were sheets of delicate black-veined purple cro@cuses, but a dearth of other flowers. A large number of trees here had their bark sliced in two places, and a rich stream of turpentine poured from most of the wounded trunks. After wandering on another hour or two, we returned to find Colonna still sleeping, outstretched, upon his warm but  the lizards playing round him, and his rough head comfortably reclining on No. 3's red shawl. He woke up at the sound of our footsteps, however, and seemed as anxious as ever to go on, scarcely allowing us to rest a few minutes after our long walk. For some time we returned on the grande route, but presently were led up a side ascent, as the shortest road back to the Bocca di Vergio. This ascent was at an angle of about fifty degrees, and was nothing but the rough, pathless side of a hill, clothed often with thick brushwood, through which we had to fight our way with many slaps in the face. There was no shade, and we began to melt away, as we strove, panting and exhausted, to follow the guide's pitiless strides. I fancy he wished to pay us out for our walking proclivities, or perhaps fancied that, as we were so energetic, no pace could kill us anyhow, he showed no mercy, and only paused once or twice in that dreadful hour's climb, to permit us to rest our weary limbs and gather up exhausted breath,  mossy giant, lying felled across the way. The last bit was the worst of all. It was little better than an upright wall of snow, up which we tacked, mounting painfully, more or less of us disappearing at every footstep. At its conclusion, however, we found our@selves once more on the desolate Bocca, our patient, hungry mules still standing where we had left them. Even a man's saddle appeared luxurious to such weary wayfarers and we began to jog joyfully down the incline. We had mildly but firmly informed the guide that we preferred not descending by the vertical stone-strewn path up which we had come in the morning so we were to return by the grande route, notwith@standing its snow. Very soon after leaving the wind and rain-swept Bocca, we came to a deep drift of this, and had to dismount hastily. The snow was only half frozen, and the mules plunged in up to their stomachs, whilst Calonna groaned reproachfully, Ah  beasts will break their legs ! I told you the road was not passable ! However, they did not break their legs, and, as anything short of a fly must in@fallibly have broken its neck upon the other path, we did not take blame to ourselves for the slight risk. We, not being so heavy, got on a little better, but not without many ridiculous plunges into the yielding snow, as we emerged from this drift into another, and yet another. We were descending, however, the whole time rapidly, and presently the snow became patchy, and by degrees disappeared and we mounted our unharmed beasts, and finished the last three or four miles to the forestier's house, riding. It was only about four o'clock, but the sun had already set behind the high mountain peaks surround@ing us on every side and, as we returned in single file, a silent procession along the narrow path, the forest voices sounded ghostly in the early grey of evening whilst through the dark lines of stately pines, the solemn mountains, bathed in mist  each his cold blanched peak of snow on high, like the face of a corpse surrounded by its shroud. At the forestier's, the faithful Antonio was in waiting for us, and in a few minutes we were speeding down the steep and winding road through Aït@one and on to Evisa. We parted the best of friends with Calonna, regaining his good opinion by a douceur of three francs, which, in addition to the stipulated charge of three francs for man, and seven for mules including one for the hire of the side-saddle , brought the extra expenses of Valdoniello for two people to the not exorbitant amount of thirteen francs. On the other hand, we calculated that we had walked fifteen miles and ridden on mule-back about nine and, as we only walked where riding was impossible, it would be as well for those who cannot manage much upon their own feet, to put off going to Valdoniello until summer has melted the snows from off the grande  XI. PORTO, LA PIANA, AND CARGHESE. THE next day, after our long expedition, we rose late, and with depressed spirits watched the sheets of rain that came driving across the valley, hiding the mountain tops, and pelting against our sitting-room windows. However, at eleven o'clock there were signs of a slight improvement in the weather, and we hastily got under way, and bidding adieu to our polite and smiling mademoiselle, started on the drive to Carghese. We had been warned against Carghese as the dirtiest place in Corsica and, after the experiences from which we had suffered, this was no mean warning. But, on the other hand, we had been told that the rocks of Porto and those of La Piana were the noblest sight in the  to return home without seeing them would be unbearable. And, unless we sat in the empty carriage all night, or encamped out among the rocks, there was no method of seeing this route save by sleeping at Carghese. The event justified us in our final decision, for Carghese was quite bearable whereas, to have missed that day's excursion would have been an irreparable loss. I consider those Porto and Piana rocks the most beautiful sight in Corsica. They must be overwhelmingly magnificent on a clear day even surrounded by mist clouds, and devoid of sunshine, they were wonderful to see. For the first three or four hours of our drive, the rain kept off and taking the opposite road to that of yesterday, we struck off to the left towards the coast line, and right among the rocks of Porto. The road at first was cut out of barren mountain flanks, winding amongst bleak savage scenery, and Scottish-looking trout streams, with very Scotch mists rising from their banks, and veiling the hill-tops with the village of Marignana on one side,  desolate red heads of Porto gazing down over intervening hillocks on the other. Presently came a few wooded hills to break the bare austerity of the scene, with boulder rocks, red and green and orange, beside the roadway and, hanging right over our heads, the frowning and majestic Capo dei Signori, looming out of the mist in purple shadows. One or two more windings led us into the narrow gorge, walled in on either side by the Porto rocks. It is impossible to imagine anything more sublime than these blood-red precipices-more wonderful, more perpendicular, and more lofty here than where we had first seen them-almost shutting out the sky from our sight, and again falling beneath us in an unfathomable gorge that made one shudder to look into. The heads of these rocks were like a succession of Rhenish castles, so turreted, and tower shaped, and peaked were they and Speloncato, with its three-pinnacled summit, was more striking in appearance and crimson in hue@ extraordinary blood-red colour is not enhanced by sunshine or peculiar lights it is the real colour of the stone, of which broken bits lie about the road. The Cor@sican rocks are usually very vivid, and especially the red granite and the porphyry. There was not a gleam of sunshine as we passed amongst the Porto rocks and I do not know that I regret it. The savage beauty and desolate grandeur of such a scene is perhaps best seen under the chill of grey sky and distant thunder clouds. Passing, after a time, out of this wild region, we emerged once more among more barren-looking hills, past the village of Asta and along a boulder-strewn brawling torrent, shaded by its fringe of foliage. Here were some most extraordinary hollowed rocks. One, like a huge eggshell in shape, lay upon the gravel beside the stream. It was completely hollow, like a blown egg, the shell being only a few inches thick, with a natural opening at one side, about four feet high, and would have made a comfortable shelter for eight or ten men. Another, half-way up the hill-side,  the same shape, only with a flat bottom, was called La Petite Maison@nette, having been adopted by a wise shepherd as his home, and a little brick wall with a door, built on the open side. A few more minutes brought us to the top of a hill, whence we looked down once more upon the sea. The Gulf of Porto lay, wide-stretching, at our feet the sun, which had now come out for a short gleam, light@ing up the many picturesque promontories which ran out into the blue distance, and sparkling on the yellow line on an opposite hill, marking the route to Calvi. A Genoese round tower lay upon the little headland beneath our feet, and, behind it, two or three houses. Antonio pulled up his horses for a moment at our request, and No. 3 took a hasty sketch. There, mademoiselle, said he, pointing with his whip in the direction of the round tower, is the town of Porto. But where ? we asked. We only see three houses. Antonio smiled feebly. There are only five in the town, I believe, said he.@ peninsula of Porto is almost as red as the rocks which take their name from it, and is in a most lovely situation. It was formerly a much larger and more important place than now, and at one time was a favourite resort of visitors. But, built in a corner as it is, on the sea-level, and sur@rounded by stagnant pool and slow river, it has now a dangerous reputation for fever, and in summer the heat is something intolerable to the few inhabitants. The sun still kept out as we began to ascend towards La Piana, on a road sur@rounded by richest herbage, shaded by pale green chestnuts, through groves of arbutus and myrtle, and scattered crags of fairest form, getting peeps of bluest sea below, and distant purple coast lines. For about two hours we ascended, often over queer high bridges spanning a rushing cascade, until we entered the winding mountain defiles, walled in on either side by the perpendicular rocks of La Piana. The first, seen for long before entering this defile, was most peculiar in form, bearing an exact resemblance to a  Anything more beautiful than these rocks it would be impossible to conceive, but it was a beauty very different from those of Porto. Brilliant was their colouring, rosy red, pale green, and soft grey, but upon and between their detached castellated heights grew luxuriant shrubs and waving larch-trees and, although they often literally overhung the road from a great height, there was neither frowning precipice nor gloomy gorge beneath our feet. On the sea side, the spaces between these rocky piles, rising in wildest and most fantastic shapes to heaven often in spikes and high cathedral spires , was filled in by fairy peeps of sea and circling sandy bay, a thousand feet below. No place can be imagined more perfect for a mid-day halt than here among these perfect rock towers and grottoes and here we had intended to rest and eat our modest lunch but, with a steady downpour of rain beginning to shut out distant hill and even overhanging crag, and running in little rivers along the stony road, we had  but to go on to the uninviting village, two miles further on. On one of the last of the La Piana rocks we were amused to see a happy family of six or seven goats clustered, taking refuge from the storm of rain. The rock, which was high but narrow, was intersected by a number of small horizontal shelves and on these the goats, black and white and parti@coloured, had leaped, one on each, looking exactly like a collection of Swiss carvings on a tall bracket. La Piana is a wretched little village, boasting, however, a situation that no doubt would have been lovely in less unlovely weather. The inn, a poverty-stricken look@ing hovel-cottage in the village street, appeared at first deserted but, after Antonio had fished up its owners from the kitchen downstairs, opened its hospitable door at the top of a flight of dirty stone steps to receive us. We found ourselves in a small, dark room, lighted only by a window about two feet square, or rather, by a window hole, for glass there was none, and shutters, of which one was closed, kept out wind and driving  usual t@he inhabitants, consisting of an old man, two women, and a baby or two, came in to stare at us, smiling good-humouredly, and full of curiosity but unable to speak a word of anything better than Corsican patois. We managed, with some difficulty, and by careful docking of the terminations of our words which is the chief characteristic of the national dialect , to make our small stock of Italian serve to express our wants and at length, after the usual offer of raw ham, sat down to a very good omelette mixed with broccia, and a box of London-marked sardines. We then petitioned for a fire and pre@sently our smiling hostess brought us an apron full of fir cones, and placing them on some chips upon the large open stone hearth, we had a brisk crackling blaze, over which to warm and dry our damp garments. The next two hours, in the very dark grimy little room, with onion odours from below, and no view from the window-hole but equally grimy houses opposite, and ceaseless sheets of driving rain, were  and our only amusement con@sisted in listening to the strange jargon of patois going on amongst the commonalty in the kitchen underneath, and in watching the picturesque effects made in the fire by the fir cones, as they panted and swelled their glowing orange bodies like living things incandescent. At four o'clock we could stand it no longer, and started anew for Carghese in rather better weather. A little more than two hours' driving brought us there first, through fine moun@tain scenery, but very soon through a tame and uninteresting route, surrounded by grassy hills, and across a long marshy tract, well cultivated and planted with wheat and vineyards, but malarious in looks and in fact. The gulfs of Chioni and Pero lay before us, and more than one round tower kept watch upon the neighbouring headlands. Turning a corner, we suddenly came into view of Carghese, lying little above the sea-level, just before us, and presently drove up the main, tolerably wide, street, to the dirty looking Hotel de l'Uni@vers. Carghese is a town of some size  but is uninteresting and odoriferous. None of the population appear over civil, and the boys are scarcely safe for ladies walking alone. They followed us, not only with mischievous hoots, like other gamins, but with scowls and mutterings, and more than one stone was furtively thrown un@pleasantly near our backs after we had passed a corner, and without the slightest provocation, except that of an unaccustomed sight,-which provocation we sometimes see rousing our British youth to stone a squirrel or an escaped monkey, or condemns a tame-bred canary to get pecked to death by its untamed neighbours. Carghese has an interest of its own from the fact that it is a Greek colony of very ancient date, which, until quite lately, has kept up its exclusive nationality, and shunned intermarriage with the sons and daughters of its adopted country. Both in physique and in manners they differ, even yet, very considerably from the other islanders. There seemed, from our cursory acquaint@ance, to be a great number of very dark  faces amongst them and the children are decidedly handsomer than else@where although in manliness of appearance and pleasantness of expression the Corsicans have the advantage. Every one sings and whistles in Carghese and the songs of the young men, as, for two or three hours after dark, they marched, arm in arm, up and down the village street in front of our hotel, were far less dismal and more tuneful than elsewhere, and only towards midnight did they collapse into the national minor howl. There is little to be seen in Carghese, except the Greek priest, who is certainly worth a glance, as, with long white beard almost to his waist, black cassock and square cap, the tall stout old man parades the streets with no little dignity. There is a fine round Greek church, lately built, and considered handsome, in this land where good architecture is conspicuous by its absence and a Romish church, less fine, -but nothing else to interest, either natural or artificial. During our walk through the  followed by fifteen or twenty children, all greatly excited, who, for some minutes after we had re-entered our inn, remained crowded round the door without, shouting, Inglese ! Inglese ! with about the same amount of enthusiasm and common sense as the Ephesian silversmiths of old and it was impossible to glance out of one's window without a corresponding rush from the juvenile crowd, who tumbled over one another in their eagerness to see the two surprising foreigners. N.B.-Next time I go up to London, and meet a Chinaman in Bond Street, or an African in Piccadilly, not so much as to glance out of the corners of my eyes at him. As No. 2 remarked, with her usual placid@ity of tone, to No. 3 on this occasion, Couldn't you imagine we were two Christy Minstrels going down the street ? After a very tolerable dinner, we sought our rooms with many misgivings. We had telegraphed our coming three days before@hand, so as to give our landlady plenty of time to scrape off a little of the  of the establishment before we arrived, if so disposed but had been warned of the improbability of such a disposition on her part, owing to sheer ignorance on the sub@ject of that rare Corsican virtue-cleanli@ness. Even the taciturn Antonio would hold out little hope to us, and said he feared our ac@commodation would not suit us. Our rooms were not re-assuring. One led out of either end of the low dark salle à manger. They were small, with uneven, dirty, wooden floors, and almost destitute of furniture. Mine boasted one broken chair, upon which it was unsafe to sit, whilst the wash@ing apparatus was placed on the top of the only other piece of furniture in the room except the bed-a high chest of drawers, where a corner had with difficulty been cleared of its multitude of penny Madonnas and broken shells. There was, of course, no looking-glass at all and the jug and basin in both rooms consisted of an old green wine-bottle filled with dingy brown water, and placed in  of shallow slop-basin. The windows were full of ventilating holes, and strips of filthy carpet adorned the floor by the bed@side, which strips we carefully took up and placed at the extremest corners of the rooms. All this was not inviting and we discussed the advisability of sitting up all night, and getting a siesta next day but finally braved the horrors of the little rooms, and found them far less horrible than their appearance warranted, and in all serious matters, fairly clean. Great was our astonishment and propor@tionate our hearty gratitude to our bright-eyed hostess, when, next morning, she brought us in our hot coffee, and sour bread apparently made in equal proportion of flour and sand , and eaten dry, perforce, as neither butter nor honey are attainable luxuries in inland Corsica. Forde CHAPTER XII. FROM CARGHESE TO AJACCIO. WHEN we left our rooms next morning, the skies were black with rain, and the down@pour obliged us to put off our start till 11 a.m. when the pelting had turned into a gentle spattering, such as travellers in Corsica must learn to despise. From Carghese to Calcataggio was a steep mount, for some time following the windings of the sea-shore, and then hanging above it, but never out of sight of the blue waters. The promontories were low and unin@teresting but, through the gleams of sun@shine dancing in and out of light showers, the rough sea, unrivalled in its tideless purity of colour, green and opal, threw great arching rollers on the white beaches and outlying red  Mediterranean never looked more lovely to us than it did this stormy day, the wind blowing sheets of foam across the narrow bays, and blue and purple shadows flinging their changing hues across the heaving mass of dark green waters. The surf was still roaring out of sight beneath our feet as we passed among steep grassy hills, and lanes brilliant with white and purple vetch, marigolds, borage, sweet peas, poppies, and large-eyed daisies, nest@ling all amongst long bending grasses, that swayed gracefully at the wind's behest. Corn-fields and general cultivation were to be seen here and as we neared Sagona Bay the coast-line suddenly opened out grandly, and showed us fine outlying capes and promontories, two ranges stretching out together. Passing a polite group of Sagona inhabi@tants, who, seated outside the little village inn, in defiance of spotting rain, nodded to Antonio, and removed their hats to us, we mounted the old route to bleak and stony San Sebastiani, its ugly chapel peering from the summit and thence cantered  one long descent, towards Ajaccio, by degrees exchanging the frosty air of the Col for the warm bright sunshine of the long plain. It was only five o'clock when we reached Hotel Germania and, during the last half-hour, we had hastily resolved, being some@what pressed for time, to start anew next morning on our last tour to the forest of Sorba, and the famous precipices of L'Inzecca. So it was our last evening in Aj accio and as I walked through the little town for some final commissions an hour or two later, it seemed gayer and more attractive than ever. The sun was shining brightly over the blue sea, although the streets were all in shadow, and the roads looked as if they had never known a drop of rain in their lives. Out beyond the town, down the green avenued road, the mountains were blushing rosy pink with purple shadows, and the descending sun threw long golden lines across the hot sea, here quite calm and peaceful and on the Place  the shore, the better end of the population sauntered slowly up and down, and a little boy, dressed in the newest French style, was taking his black pet lamb for a walk, ornamented by a pink collar, to which the blue ribbon was tied. In the town, drums were beating, and gay chatter filled the air, as men and women all sat out to enjoy the cool air, almost blocking up the street. Stalls of fruit and oranges lined the road, and round them the gamins chased each other merrily. The little tables, under their awnings outside the cafés, were surrounded by quiet smokers in straw hats, sipping coffee as they lounged and soldiers, in blue and scarlet uniforms, civilians in striped blouses,@ and women in gay jackets jostled each other good humouredly on the narrow pavement. Two or three female heads looked out of almost every window in the high, many-storied houses and, from two neighbour@ing ones, a couple of women were having a vituperative but innocuous fight, which provided no little amusement for the grin@ning saunterers  the fountain, further on, women were pausing to gossip, with every conceivable shape of picturesque jar in every conceivable position on their heads and on the benches opposite the glorious sea and the Place Buonaparte, recumbent figures lay, face downwards, full length, and fast asleep. Every now and then, across the hum of voices and the drumming, came the sharp crack of a whip, and a musical Guarda ! from some coachman, as he steered his way amongst the crowd. Up in the Cours Grandval a tiny, rosy-cheeked, white-capped bimbo stood crying for @@maman in the middle of the road, stopping with wide-open eyes of astonishment to gaze at the Inglese lady who spoke to her. Then on to the hotel, where, in the wood behind the house, the nightingales and thrushes had already begun their usual concert and into the salle @à manger, now silent and deserted, where sweetbread and other dainties, served by a waiter whose delight in a patron this out-of-season time was quite touching, formed the unromantic but not unpleasant conclusion to a long  @home this evening, I had met with the second beggar I had seen in Corsica. We never encountered any but these two during our stay. Antonio had been very eager, in his digni@fied way, upon this point. Mademoiselle, said he, solemnly, there are no beggars in Corsica. No man begs, unless he has lost the use of his limbs, and cannot work. Oddly enough, the only two beggars I saw in the island both belonged to the category of cripples. The first was an old man whose leg had been amputated, and who sat by the road-side at Sartene. The second was the one I met this night. There was something wonderfully unpro@fessional about his begging, as he just touched his cap, and made a movement with his hand, as we passed the doorstep on which he was sitting. My hands were too full to give him any@thing just then, but, after putting down my purchases in the hotel, I returned the few yards down the road to where he still sat. He said nothing as I came up this time, but as I put the sous into his hand, looked  with a pleasant smile and a simple Thank you, totally unlike the manner of the English or Italian beggar. One arm had been cut off, the stump being still bandaged, and I asked him how it was done. In some machinery works, he told me, three months ago only but his patois prevented my understanding the details. Before that, I worked, he said, with a little pride as he might well have of his occupation in this indolent country . It must be hard for you now to do nothing, I said. He looked up with a pathetic smile in his brown eyes. Yes. And my family are too poor to keep me. And so you beg ? Si, mademoiselle. So far, at any rate, his new trade did not seem to have destroyed the self-respect of the wistful-looking young fellow, who seemed to regard it in the light of a necessary though uninteresting duty and the in@telligence of his countenance led one to hope that before long he might find some more worthy occupation.ion.  XIII. BOCOGNANO BUGBEARS. AFTER an affectionate farewell to Hotel Germania, its comforts and its cleanliness, bearing each of us a sweet-smelling bou@quet of rosebuds, geraniums, and heliotrope, presented by the young waiter to his last customers with a mournful air, we left sunny little Ajaccio for the last time, accompanied by our old friend Antonio, for whom we had been careful to bargain. It was a heavy thundery-looking day, though rainless, and, underneath their white snow caps, the shadows of Monte Nebbio and Monte d'Oro loomed purple before us as we drove up the flat Bastia road. After three hours' driving, we reached the little village of Fiasco, where we baited and lunched and Antonio, who had  but few intimates, and who generally preferred gravely listening to answering the remarks of his acquaintances, retired to the stables for a good gossip with his particular confidant, young Bella Coschia. Meanwhile, No. 3 stood, leaning her back against the wall of the little inn, taking the portrait of a charrette mule outside and, by degrees, a little group of five or six men and women sat down on the neighbouring doorsteps, watching with curious eyes. By-and-by, the tidily-dressed, grey-haired landlord of the inn, with a twinkle in his eye, approached, and opened conversation. If you would like to buy that mule, mademoiselle, the owner says he will sell him for a fair price. Thank you, returned No. 3 but he would be rather a troublesome piece of goods to take to England, I am afraid. Oh, you are English, mademoiselle ? I am. Perhaps you would like to buy some of my land hereabouts ? Why should I want to buy your land ? Oh, because all the English are so  don't know what to do with their money. I am not rich. Oh yes, you are, mademoiselle. You know you have lots of property in England. Why not buy a little of my land? It is very good land, and I have a great deal to sell round these parts. The wink the old fellow again gave his companions roused the indignation of No. 3. How very rich you must be, monsieur ! she exclaimed sardonically. I, mademoiselle ? Why so ? I am a poor Corsican. To have so much good property to sell. Whereas I do not possess a rood. The old fellow grunted, and passed on to the carriage, to continue his inquiries of No. 2 whilst his companions laughed good-humouredly at his discomfiture. At half-past two, we started again, up the steep ascent to Bocognano, through wooded hills and fine crags, every minute more closely enwrapped in the grand overhang@ing mountains, and Monte d'Oro growing steeper, bluer, and more furrowed on our  diligence to Corte was not far behind us, lumbering up the dusty ascent slowly and a few miles from Bocognano, we passed a woman lying on the grass by the road@side with a harnessed horse cropping beside her. At the sound of our carriage wheels she raised herself up, and smiled and nodded to Antonio with some laughing remark in a deep bass voice, to which Antonio returned his usual grave nod, without response. She was a huge bony woman, with a rough, coarse face, and manly gait and voice, and, Antonio told us, had, until the last few years, been one of the regular coachmen on this diligence route, driving her horses from here to Bocognano, of which village she was a native. Now, however, male coachmen having become fashionable upon the public diligences, she was degraded to her present occupation, which consisted in bringing an extra horse to this spot for the last and steepest pull up to Bocognano, and undertaking the post of additional whipper and shouter to the exhausted horses. As she was a drunkard, a great swearer,  most violent character, the change was, perhaps, as well for the diligence pas@sengers and when at the entrance to the village Antonio pointed out to us a little crippled man as the father of this Zantippe, we glanced at the diminutive little fellow with pitying eyes. He looks frightened, I said. How often does his amiable daughter beat him ? Pretty often, mademoiselle. But he drinks, too, and they are always quarrelling. All the family are coachmen the old man used to drive the diligence, then his daughter took it, and now his son goes on the same stage. We turned our heads once more, and, at the last turn of the road behind us, could see this female postilion standing on one of the shafts, brandishing her long whip, and displaying a wonderful dexterity in preserving her lofty and difficult position. Are there many drunkards in Corsica ? asked No. 3. The love of drink is growing, mademoi@selle. There are many more now than there used to be a few years  are the causes ?@@@ Idleness, and the fashion of strangers, and the cheapness of drink.@@@ What do they drink ? Nothing but the country wines ? @@@Little else but red wine. It takes a good deal to make a man drunk on that but again, it costs little. It does indeed. Good claret was often put before us in the village inns, charged fivepence a bottle. @@@Is it true, mademoiselle, asked Antonio presently,@@@ that the English are a nation of drunkards ? I have heard it said.id. It is horribly true, said No. 3. And it was impossible not to feel a sense of humiliation in the discovery that the national disgrace had even reached the ears of this little out-of-the-way island in the Mediterranean.@@@ But in England, too, there is now a large band of total abstainers, formed for the sake of helping the drunkards. Have you any in Corsica ? No, said Antonio, thoughtfullylly we have not heard of that in our country. But we see that many of the English who  to Corsica are great drinkers. He then spoke of an English gentleman, with whose name we were well acquainted, whose passion for drink was the astonishment of Corsicans since he came to live amongst them. Poor man, he said, he is no man's enemy but his own he is kind and amiable, but, voila ! he will go on now till he kills himself. The English are terrible people to drink when they begin. They drink more than our people do and they drink brandy. I remember, a short time ago, taking an English party several tours. There were a lady and a gentleman, both quite young, and a little boy and we drove about to see some of the forests. All the time he was drinking he never stopped it. Once we stayed a day or two at a village up amongst the hills and he could not walk in the evenings when he came out of the public-house. I drove him at last to Ajaccio. I knew he could not live long, for he had chest disease, and could not stand the drink. I was only away a few days with another party into the country, and when I returned I asked after the Anglais, but he was already  a mile before reaching Bocognano we passed a rough pile of broken wood, lying by the road-side. This was where yesterday, a charrette, laden with forest trunks, had upset and broken upon the sharp turn, fortunately, however, without killing either mules or drivers, as is too often the case in these waggon accidents. Often during our drives we noticed that, in the most precipitous places, at the most awkward turns of a mountain road or of a narrow bridge, the slight protecting parapet had been knocked down and destroyed by the heavy wheels or long timbers of these over-loaded carts. It is said that the Corsicans know much better how to load a waggon than we English. But certainly, the number and size of the pine-trunks carried down in these charrettes from the mountain-side, drawn by the four or six mules, looked appalling to our eyes. The charrettiers, or drivers, of the wag@gons, who work for some contractor on the plains, are badly paid and hardly worked, and their occupation is one of considerablei roads, some of which are made so slightly, of planks jutting out from the steep hill-side, that you can see daylight through to the precipice underneath. These, of course, often break down. But a still more common misfortune is the up@setting of the charrette at a corner, by the long pieces of timber catching the side of the hill, or by the simple overbalancing of the waggon on the uneven road. In either case, immediate destruction to both waggons and horses is the infallible con@sequence, as they lurch over into the descending precipice. In some cases, of course, the drivers, walking along beside their waggons, are saved but, as they are nearly always stretched on the top of their timber, and sometimes have so far forgotten prudence as to fall asleep, they constantly share the fate of their horses, and are hurried to a speedy and certain death. Antonio pointed out to us, near Ghisoni further on, a little awkward wooden bridge at a precipitous turn, where, the last few years, no fewer than five charrettes  over, in every case killing the poor beasts, and in many cases, their drivers. Bocognano is in a most exquisite situa@tion, completely under the lee of Monte d'Oro, stupendous and purple,-and sur@rounded on every side by groves of delicate chestnuts, and by picturesque hill and ravine but it is a hopelessly dirty village, and looked as uninviting in that respect in to-day's sunshine, as it did in the mud and mist of our former visit. Hotel Mouvrages, a filthy-looking broken-down tenement in the centre of the village, was the worst in appearance of any we had yet seen. The staircase, dark and ruinous, was redolent of various horrid smells, and both the greasy little salle a manger upstairs, and the two stuffy bed@rooms, were most unpleasant to view. This is dreadful, Antonio, said I, as he followed, laden with our wraps, into the small foul sitting-room, where a few half-washed garments hung out of the grimy window-sills and assisted to import a general richness to the atmosphere we can never stop here. What shall we do  know not where else you can go, mademoiselle, he replied, raising a grave disturbed face the horses are done up, and there is no inn within many kilometres of this. Well, then, I suppose we must abide. And Antonio withdrew with a distressed countenance for, although eloquence was not his forte, it was a cause of dejection to him to think that the ladies under his care should be uncomfortable. As for us, leaving our belongings behind us, we hurried out of the inn as fast as possible, and into the village street, to hunt for the telegraph office, which exists in every little village in Corsica. Having at last, followed by the eyes of a quantity of lounging, velveteened men, and can-carrying busy women, and the feet of a little crowd of excited children, found it up a stone entrance a little further down the street, we made our way up the wooden ladder which did duty for staircase from the ground floor to the first story, where, imprisoned in a sort of wooden cage, a young woman transmitted our telegram  at which place we were to spend the next night. But as, contrary to custom, she either could not or would not understand French, and required a great many directions re@garding our message, a bearded man or two and another young woman were all called in to interview us, under the excuse of explaining matters. These desired to know where we came from, how long we were stopping, and whither we intended going, taking the greatest interest in our answers, and evidently mentally making a detailed inventory of every article of our dress and feature on our face. When at length we escaped, they all pursued us to the top of the wooden ladder, and put out three or four curious heads to peer after us whilst our juvenile friends waited for us at the bottom. We soon shook them off, however, walk@ing briskly up the Corte road,-as beautiful a walk as one could well take. After going about two miles, we came to a sharp turn in the hill-side, from which Monte d'Oro rises in its grandest, steepest, closest  heavy blue thunder-clouds hung over our heads and glowered over the purple shadows and white snows of the great Alp, rising from the gorge just beside us on the other side were steep maquis-covered and craggy hills. All along the road, and upon each hill-side, we had passed the great chestnut trunks, gnarled, knotted, and twisted some splendid ruins, black and mossy, some in the prime of life and now, looking back upon the village, it seemed embosomed in chestnuts, part of it hid by the richness of the pale green leaves, just in leaf. Bocognano is a very straggling village, there being four or five distinct little hamlets straying among the embowered hills. It is famous for being the abode of chest@nut trees and of bandits. A fine stone bridge spanned the wide torrent of the Gravona river about a mile from the village, shaded by trees and here we sat and rested, watching the passers-by. They were all shy and retiring, wanting village audacity, even the  pretty little fellows were catching lizards, and talked in whispers until we were some yards beyond them, regarding us with awe-struck eyes and some little girls, laden each with a basket of wood from the hill-side, and who sat likewise to rest upon the stone coping, utterly refused to be sketched, dodging my pencil successfully, and occasionally covering their faces with their hands. Then came past a group of bare-footed merry-voiced women, strong as horses, and upright as poplars, each carrying her load of wood upon her head, and hurrying on to the village with only a glance in our direc@tion and lastly, a sweet-faced girl of about fifteen, with a look of patient depression upon her olive-coloured face touching to see. She was carrying a heavy load of wood upon her head her dress was neat, and tucked up almost to her knees, showing the pretty brown legs and round feet and the white handkerchief over her shoulders, as well as the one upon her head, was clean and tidy. She seemed very tired, and  her load beside the bridge hastily, sitting down but immediately her busy fingers took some knitting out of her pocket, not allowed for a moment to be idle. She had no objection to our trying to sketch her, but when we spoke to her, raised her serious pathetic brown eyes to ours with a puzzled shake of the head and it was impossible to hold a conversation with her. The thunder was rolling grandly over@head as we turned homewards, passing on our way a small cottage, before the door of which stood a sulky, evil-faced boy. Ap@parently this youth objected to the intrusion of foreigners on his native soil, or the storm had soured his temper for we had not gone many yards further, before a good-sized stone came after us, hitting No. 3 pretty sharply on the shoulder. As might have been expected, our assailant was a coward, and retired within his doorway on our looking back. The next day as we passed the cottage I related the incident to Antonio with some  voulez vous ? @he said, with the usual shrug. Voila, mademoiselle, there are forty boys in this village. Among so many, must there not be one vaurien any@where ? And sundry visions of refractory raga@muffins, and hours of anguish spent in Sunday schools, forced us to admit that, even in our own land, the percentage of vauriens was probably no less. It was dusk in the salle à manger when we re-entered for our dinner, which, to give every one their due, was far from a bad one. As soon as it was accomplished we blew out the lights, and leaning out of the windows, whence we had previously had the family linen removed, found plenty of amusement in watching village life in the little street below. It was lively in the extreme, and swarmed with men and women, children and animals. Little groups of three or four men lounged slowly up and down, whilst women stood at the doors knitting,-or hanging their heads out of an upper window. The children chased each other shouting, across  street, tumbling over innumerable pigs, dogs, and kids. Cows and mules occasionally strolled in and out with a reflective air, as being quite at their ease, and accustomed to the liberty of their even@ing saunter and some magnificent goats, one coal black and the other snow white, lay on the pavement beneath our window, regarding the merry scene calmly, whilst chewing the cud of contemplation, and receiving the caresses of many of the passers-by with a proud indifference. Occasionally, a couple of dogs got up a fight for the general amusement and as it grew darker the kids became more lively, standing on their hind legs to waltz with each other. We were sorry when darkness and late hours compelled us to close the windows, and retire to our uninviting chambers. But we scarcely anticipated the miseries of that horrible night. In point of discomfort, the rooms were much the same as at the other smaller inns. An old wine-bottle and pudding-basin again did duty for washing apparatus  course, there was none, and the one towel was a bit of coarse canvas about a foot square. The luxury of a looking-glass we had almost forgotten, and its want dis@tressed us but little. But what afflicted us chiefly was the number of old chests and boxes, and of family petticoats, hung up in every direc@tion and the general dirt of the wooden floors and plaster walls. The good woman of the house explained to me that they had but one guests' room, and that mine had been vacated by herself and spouse for my use. When I heard that dreadful piece of intelligence, I knew what to expect. The horrors of that night are not to be described. Animated nature of every de@scription abounded in all the rooms and, although No. 3 had her window open all night, it was necessary to burn incense fortunately taken out from England every half-hour or so whilst No. 2 never retired to rest at all, but spent the dark hours in pacing up and down, reflecting on the humbug of fine scenery combined  inns, and registering a vow never again to set foot in this wretched village, or any like it, for the sake of any natural beauties whatever. In this nocturnal pacing she was accompanied by a regiment of rats overhead, who played high jinks in the men's attic, undismayed by the occa@sional boot flung at them by some disturbed sleeper. Bocognano is situated at some height amongst the hills, and its nights are no doubt considered cold by the inhabitants. This doubtless accounted for the fact that, after instituting a search to explain the extraordinary warmth of the bed No. 3 found two large fur rugs, or rather undressed sheepskins, carefully laid upon the top of the mattress, wool upwards. With an inward groan, these receptacles for fleas were dragged across the room, and transferred to the window, whence, in company with the dirty quilt and the only strip of carpet in the room, they hung outside for an unaccustomed airing. But enough of such like tortures, which are but described for the edification of  who are warned that they had far better sit the night out in their carriage, if a miserable fate brings them to Bocog@nano, than spend it for I will not use the ironical word sleep at Hotel Mouvrages. I would warn them, too, to beware of printer's errors. In Mr. Roden Noel's account of Corsica, given in a late Temple Bar number, he mentions a filthy place called Borognano, warning travellers to avoid it. This account we studied carefully, but, unfortunately, were induced, by the differ@ing letter, to imagine it a distinct place, or we should scarcely have had courage to go thither. I have no doubt now that Mr. Noel's Borognano was our Bocognano. With quaking hearts we watched them come, From curtain, carpet, rug, In countless hordes, half-famished brutes-That Bocognano B ! Another room we sought in haste, And thought to rest now, snug But lo ! again those marching troops-The universal B-! The bed-legs next we seized, and placed Each in a  then he dropped down from above-That persevering B-! With Keating's dust we covered us, And many a nauseous drug But never turned that army back-Th' indomitable B-! We pulled the bedclothes round our ears With many a hasty tug But quick he burrowed underneath-Each enterprising B-! In vain to turn and twist us round With many a frantic shrug We failed to ease the throbbing pang, Caused by each busy B-! O traveller in Corsica, Flee this domestic Thug Brigands are myths but, sure as death, Is Bocognano's B-! Travellers who have visited Bocognano will hear with sympathetic interest of a legend found amongst a certain tribe of Kurds living on Mount Sindshar. Noah's ark, say these worthies, having struck upon a rock in this neighbourhood, and he and his large family being in danger of drowning, the serpent came to the rescue, craftily promising assistance in re@turn for Noah's pledge, thenceforth that is to say, after the cessation of the deluge  him upon human flesh. According to the Kurdish opinion, Noah's faith, at this period of his life, was not strong. Either he doubted any ultimate cessation of the flood, and so thought to evade his promise or present necessities made him close his eyes to the future. Anyhow, he acceded to the proposition, and the serpent, coiling himself up promptly, filled up the hole, and stopped the leak. At the abatement of the deluge, the serpent demanded his promised reward. Noah, in despair, acted upon the advice of the angel Gabriel, and flung the serpent into the fire. Then, casting forth its ashes, from them rose up immediately a swarm of bugs, fleas, and all such noxious vermin, which hastened to fulfil their destiny by the enjoyment of that unnatural food which the patriarch had so rashly pledged to allow their pro@genitor. Such is the Kurdish legend but the English transcriber adds that, no sooner had this been done, than Noah prayed for a return of the deluge !@@@@  XIV. THE FOREST OF SORBA. WHEN at last cold dawn had passed away, and given place to rosy morning, such a view was gleaming in through the little open window as seemed almost to compen@sate for horrors past. What mattered it now, in the clear brilliant sunshine, that a monstrous black beetle, overcome by slumber or reflection, was looking down serenely from the wall just above or that, on lifting a shoe from the floor, two more hopped out merrily ? A pure cone of glistening snow was rising from a belt of pines and chestnut woods from the valley in which stood the inn, and blocking up the little window with a dazzling vicinity of beauty. The blue sky behind it shone like a sapphire, and everything seemed  the glorious pure early sunshine snow girdles above, and dewdrops from green branches below, whilst larks were thrilling the air with their mysterious hidden song - What thou art we know not What is most like thee ? From rainbow clouds there flow not Drops so bright to see As from thy presence showers a rain of melody. Like a glowworm golden, In a dell of dew, Scattering, unbeholden, Its aerial hue, Among the flowers and grass, which screen it from the view. What objects are the fountains Of thy happy strain ? What fields or waves or mountains ? What shapes of sky or plain ? What love of thine own kind ? what ignorance of pain ? After an early breakfast we left Bocog@nano, and proceeded on our way to Ghisoni before nine o'clock. For two or three hours we followed the Corte route, mounting up the Foce Pass, where before we had descended in the diligence. But two months had made  difference in the nature of the views. Where all had been bleak and bare before, pale feathery beeches now hung over gorge and ravine, shading the hot ascent, and chestnuts in full leaf bent above many a foaming cascade as it rushed down the hill-side. Snow mountains still surrounded us on either side, but rich groves of trees filled up the valley beneath, and clothed the opposite slope with a warm mantle, out of which rose the white conical peak of Monte D'Oro at a great height into the burning blue sky. The forest of Vizzavona was far more beautiful than at our first visit. There were no naked trunks or bare branches now both beeches and pines were in full luxuriance, and everywhere was richest foliage and most grateful shade, showing only occasional peeps of the grand snowy ranges through the avenue breaks. Descending again, we baited, for our mid-day rest, under a frying sun but a frosty atmosphere, on an exposed plateau just beyond the forest, beside a lonely and deserted  where the ground was bare, but where snow, on grandest hills, hemmed us in on every side. After washing down our bread and raisins with a draught from the delicious mountain spring that ran before us, we descended the hill a little farther, to investigate a little pine wood just above the road-way. It w@as fringed by gigantic Mediterranean heath trees, and the ground was carpeted by cyclamen and fir cones, out of which the lizards darted at our approach in hundreds, some only an inch or two long, and evidently mere babes of their tribe. Almost at the same moment, my com@panion and I started two large snakes. Mine was black, and about four feet long hers green, and somewhat shorter. The black fellow sprang almost from under my feet on the narrow pathway, and wriggled away rapidly, swimming across a dyke just beside it, and then hastening into conceal@ment up the side of the opposite bank. The other one started out in the same way just before my companion, but took refuge in the hollow of a  putting out @his pretty green head and bright green eyes every other minute cautiously, to see if the coast were clear, but always retiring when he observed us watching. I have no doubt that wood, and every wood and forest in Corsica, is more or less full of such snakes but their timidity makes them little formidable, unless one should happen to place a bare hand or foot by accident upon them. Starting anew, we continued our descent through thick chestnut woods, and beside mountains, apparently steeper and nearer until at length, just above the village of Vivario, we left the Corte road and struck off to the right towards the forest of Sorba. This forest is situated upon the summit of such a high hill that, when Antonio pointed it out to us, it seemed quite im@possible that we should have time, or the horses strength, to reach it that day. It proved, however, to be only a very toilsome mount of about three hours. This ascent to the Col is certainly the most steep and precipitous of any forest we  seen in the island but the road is fairly good, and the views, near and far, are exquisite. As we entered the outskirts of the forest, young firs bent over the large boulders around us then the numerous thin-stemmed pines crowded more closely to@gether, growing at each turn larger, hand@somer, and bigger of girth, until, near the summit, the trees that lined the path on either side were the finest we had ever seen for height and circumference. Many of these trees were of vast reputed ages which, however, could not be computed until, after being felled, their rings were counted. Some of them, however, sent to the Paris Exhibition of 1867, were proved to be four hundred years old. The path mounted so rapidly that we could see over the heads of nearly all these forest giants, except those immediately on the road level and through every break loomed the magnificent head of D'Oro, now some distance, but looking grander and larger than ever, hanging like some@thing unearthly between sky and  a wide belt of clouds round his base, but with his head clear and cloudless. The road which we had passed over seemed to lie under our very feet, and, as we mounted, the boulders grew more and more gigantic and imposing. At one place we had a very narrow shave to get past. A great block of rock had become detached from the mountain-side above, and fallen across our path at a remarkably steep point. We all got out while the horses wormed themselves round the corner, and Antonio half lifted the empty carriage after them, leaving only the wheels on one side on mother earth, and supporting the other side himself. If this had been night, and we had been descending, asked No. 3, what would have become of us then ? Antonio shook his head with a silent smile. He w@as too wise to commit himself to any opinion on such a point. But no one would come down such a place at night, I suppose ? she remarked.@@ Yes, said Antonio the very first time I ever drove out into the  I was a boy of fifteen, was down this very road. A party had to go to Ghisoni and back in haste, and we returned down here by night and there was no moon. And you had no mishap ? No, mademoiselle, was the grave reply I have never had a mishap yet. As we neared the lofty summit of the Col, shifting clouds ran across our path, and broke about us, dividing us alternately from heaven and earth but, as at length we reached the top, we found ourselves enveloped in a dense fog of cloudland. We stood for a moment on the pass to rest the horses, and, as we looked down into that abyss of white vapour, into which we were to plunge in another minute, its trackless desert appeared appalling, and it seemed as if we were going to throw our@selves into a bottomless pit of misty horror. It was almost impossible to believe that land and hill and valley lay beneath that horrible veil. But Antonio knew every turn of the sharp descent as we flew down the moun@tain-side and presently dim misty  bleak and bare, with here and there fir woods, but no snow mountains, broke through the thinning clouds. Ere long they cleared away, and, after passing through lines of magnificent chest@nut trees, many scorched and blackened by ruthless forestiers, we looked down upon Ghisoni, situated in a valley closely shut in on all sides just above a foaming river. It was an ugly village, even for Corsica, and its inn was not cheering in appearance, although more cleanly looking than Bocog@nano of unsavoury memory. As it proved, however, this little inn was by no means uncomfortable, and one of the cleanest we had met with. Whilst waiting for dinner, we took a walk, followed by some twenty or thirty children, and made our way up to the cemetery hill, looking down upon the noisy torrent. The children were very friendly and not disagreeable, although rather pressing in their attentions, most of the boys taking off their caps, and all of them offering us nosegays of  were quite reconciled to them before we returned to the village, and had grown so used to our usual triumphal procession of juvenile admirers, that it astonished us to see one of a group of men, who had all politely bowed as we passed them, dart into the centre of our train with a torrent of angry words, and an energy of threats that dispersed the tribe at once and left us free. Strolling on in the opposite direction, we went to see the famous crag of Christalisione. This is a magnificent cliff of perpendicular grey rock rising from the opposite side of the gorge, and overhanging the wild torrent foaming through it, about half a mile from the village. Some men were mending the road, which was in sore need of repair and, as they rested on their pickaxes and shovels to gaze after us, we spoke to one or two of them, and found them, as usual, pleased to be talked to, and exceedingly polite and in@telligent. The great crag looked very noble, with a band of white clouds encircling his  which the grey head and greyer base emerged at top and bottom. At six o'clock we returned to our inn, to find dinner laid at the small round table for half a dozen people. The salle à manger was, as usual, a long low room, rather dark but it seemed clean,. and there was no smell worse than ancient tobacco smoke. The walls were covered with gay frescoes, representing rural scenes. It was a little embarrassing to wash one's hands for dinner under the curious scrutiny of some eight or ten pairs of eyes. My little bedroom window faced the village street, and as it possessed neither blind nor shutters, I found myself an object of in@creasing interest to the heads that gradually gathered at the opposite windows, and pro@truded themselves to an alarming extent in the excitement of commanding my move@ments. Returning downstairs, we found that our three fellow-diners consisted of a French@man, called by his companions M. le General, and occupying the civil post of Garde General of the  and two Corsicans, one a plain garde forestier, and the other the master of the inn himself. It is a little peculiar to sit down to dinner with one's innkeeper but, except for the sentiment of the thing, we had little to complain of, as mine host was most agree@able and well-behaved. His conversation was amusing, and he had arrayed himself in semi-evening costume in honour of our presence. His knowledge of the culinary resources of the household, too, did us many a good turn during dinner, as he sent his daughter, acting as waitress, for first one thing and then another, out of the family cupboards. The garde forestier was a tall good-look@ing man of about thirty, dressed in brown velveteen and hessians, and seemed a clever man. Both he and mine host spoke French with great rapidity, if not with the same idiom as the Parisian garde general. M. le General was a very fine gentleman indeed. He was thoroughly French, both in appearance and conversation, and his exalted rank evidently accounted both  tone of good-tempered patronage in addressing his two male companions, and the persiflage with which he favoured us. Flowers ! he exclaimed, when the forestier made some remark about the floral richness of his country why, you haven't a garden in the whole of this little island of yours ! I have some astonishing roses in my garden behind the house, which I will show you after dinner, said the host. Roses, mon cher ! Why, you Corsicans don't know a rose when you see it ! You gather a few miserable little worm-eaten buds, and call them a bouquet of roses. There isn't a man in Corsica who under@stands how to make a garden. The two Corsicans took this rebuke very meekly, perhaps owning its truth in their hearts and presently the conversation diverged to the subject of bandits. Do you know, mesdemoiselles, said the General, that you are now in the heart of the bandit country ? We testified our knowledge of the for@midable  mesdemoiselles, you expect these bandits to be very terrible fellows ? You would not know them from other people in all probability you have met one or two in the street this evening, con@tinued our French friend, who evidently wished to create a sensation, and was not particular about the use of the long bow. Ma foi ! they are '@charmants gar@çons,' and 'braves hommes,' these bandits -they would behave to you with every civility. Possibly, said we. And the two Corsicans assented gravely, seeing nothing in the subject to joke about. Yes, mesdemoiselles, went on M. le General, warming with his topic, you may sleep safely in your beds to-night, here as elsewhere. You need not fear the bandits. We do not fear them, we remarked, unable to help laughing. Ah, poor fellows! They are often ill-used men, and forced into their way of life. Is it not so, my friends ? he asked, turn@ing to his companions.  may be ill-used, remarked No. 3 but they are not brave when they lay wait for their enemy and shoot him concealed in the maquis. It would surely be more manly to give him a chance. Yes, said the big garde forestier, you are right, mademoiselle. The man who fires upon his foe from the maquis is a lache. He should shoot him in the open street. Quite so, mon cher, said M. le General, always provided that his enemy has not a pistol with which to return the compli@ment ! But the Corsicans looked grave at this levity and the versatile General had soon found another topic of conversation. Is it true, mesdemoiselles, he asked, as he poured a half-pint of sweet oil over his salad, that you meditate going to the Inzecca precipices to-morrow ? We do, we replied. You had better not go, ladies. Ah ! mon Dieu ! there are precipices indeed !  terrible. Such a road ! One slip of the horse's foot-one stone rolling-and vous voilà, per@dues ! We mean to risk it, monsieur. Ah, you English ladies are rash you fear nothing. Have you a good driver ? A very good one and one we can trust perfectly. That is well for it is a terrible place, an expedition of horror. Precipices six hundred feet high-a wall of rock overhang@ing-ah, ciel ! And a steep and narrow road, where one false step may cause destruction ! Think of that, mesdames ! We had thought of it, and enjoyed the prospect but, as these three men shuddered sympathetically over the horrors of the place, we began to wonder faintly whether the Inzecca would indeed prove our romantic and early tomb.@@@@  XV. THE INZECCA. AFTER a comfortable night in our clean, though poverty-stricken little rooms, we started before 8 a.m., on a cloudy morning, for the Inzecca. The road wound above the torrent bed, and past Christalisione, descending rapidly, and gradually becoming enclosed on either side by steep rocky crags of great height. Behind us rose a distant fine range of snowy peaks, soon, however, shut out by the sur@rounding walls. The road was exceedingly bad and rutty, and after we had passed our cantonnier friends of the day before, who smilingly recognized us, became so uneven that we both flew up and down on our seats like India-rubber balls, with an apparent possi@bility of landing ultimately outside  and with an absurdity that almost interfered with our appreciation of the view, and made even Antonio, who was driving slowly and carefully, turn round occasionally with a sympathetic smile. On first entering the defile, the view was lovely. Far away was a peep of the distant sea, before which stretched two ranges of blue and purple hills, set in a frame of steep grey rocks, green gorge, and foaming river. As we advanced, the gorge become nar@rower and the rocks steeper. The Orbo literally churned itself in its fury, so that we could scarcely hear each other speak, and the opposing crags, some decked with brilliant verdure, and all dotted with pines and ilex, reared their weird pointed ridges yet straighter into the brilliant sky, in strata of the most vivid colours-blue, grey, yellow, green, and even puce pink. The two latter colours were the porphyry and red granite, abounding in Corsica. In places, the rocks were hollowed out like the trunks of trees and everywhere scored and cracked and seamed. On the road-side at one point,  from the hill behind them, rose two great square towers of grey rock, reminding one strongly of the city gates of Florence. At last we reached the particular precipice par excellence, without having had reason as yet to desert our carriage, or fear any fulfilment of M. le General's terrible pro@phecies and here we got out and sat down on the broken wall, to drink in the beauty of the scene. The morning sun was now shining brightly, but the great walls of curving rock on either side completely shut out the sunshine, and concealed great part of the sky. On the opposite side of the gorge, preci@pices about six hundred feet high looked down perpendicularly upon the Orbo, as it rushed towards the sea, throwing up sheets of dazzling foam, and diving under and leaping over the great green boulders that lay across its narrow path. On our side, the road overhung the tor@rent about a hundred feet, whilst red rocks bent over our heads to a height of some hundred feet more. Just at the turn, the road, which  defences of any kind, and which had hitherto not been too broad, widened out a little and here we followed Antonio over the little green slope, to look down into the seething waters below. Antonio had seated himself upon an out-jutting ledge of rock, and, with feet dangling over the precipice, employed himself in tearing up young boulders and sending them for our edification, with a noise of thunder, over the edge into the depths below. One rocky crash succeeded another, making echoes amid the wild din of the torrent, until the young Corsican was crimson in the face with his exertions, and seemed so much inclined to throw himself over with his heavy missiles, that we had to represent to him the serious inconveni@ence it would be to us were we to be left to make our way driverless back to Ghisoni. This had the desired effect and shrugging his shoulders, with a smile, he desisted, pulling down the pink and white calico smock that he always wore, when on duty, over his waistcoat, and returning to his  we walked on, down the gorge. For about another three-quarters of a mile the precipices continued fine then the rocks opened out, the road flattened, and all things began to look commonplace. We decided to return the way we had come, by Ghisoni and Sorba, instead of following this flatter and less interesting route to Vivario. Coming home, we watched a boy cross@ing the Orbo torrent. It was here about a hundred yards wide, and rocky, although not so angry as in its narrower channels. The bridge was primitive, and consisted merely of a long pine log, balanced across the river, and over which the boy went, frog fashion, fearing to be swept off by the stream. Having paused to see this juvenile accom@plish his awkward passage in safety, we returned to Ghisoni, where the rain forced us to bait, instead of eating our lunch half-way up the Sorba Mountain, as we had intended and where we again had the privilege of M. le General's polite conversa@tion and congratulations on our safe  what he persisted in considering our dangerous expedition. For my own part, I must confess that I was a little dis@appointed in the Inzecca. They were exceedingly striking, and the gorge most beautiful but I do not think they are to be compared with the Porto rocks for sublimity. Perhaps we had heard too much of their beauties beforehand. It is said that there are some precipices in the valley of the Niolo steeper and higher, and in all respects grander, than the Inzecca but we had not time to find out these, nor even to discover if there was any practicable route to them. It rained more or less all the afternoon, as we wound slowly up from Ghisoni to the top of Sorba, and down again to Vivario and yet, even in rain, the forest was magni@ficent. The road now was covered with the caterpillars whose bags we had before seen hanging above us from the branches of every tree. It was now time for them to burst, and their living contents to fall upon the ground and our carriage  became a juggernaut to numbers of these hairy black creepers. One bagful, passed by us, still lay, in a compact writhing ball, five or six inches high, upon the path. The inmates had evidently only just fallen, and not, as yet, had time to arrange their movements. But all others were slowly serpentining along the ground in single file, holding tight on to each other's tails, in one long black string. It is a popular delusion to suppose that the sting of these little animals is injurious and even dangerous. I myself held one in my hand without harm whilst our driver stirred them up carelessly with his finger as they lay upon the ground. We reached Vivario about four o'clock, and found a bright sun ready to welcome us in the village, and a rainbow lying across the smoking hills. The streets, as we picked our way through them, were thick with mud, and the nu@merous pigs looked even dirtier than usual, as we crossed the redolent stable-yard to the ladderlike, outside staircase leading  comfortable little inn of Madame Dau@soigne. Wandering beyond the village, we picked up an amusing acquaintance. This was an old lady, of a shrewd bright face and brisk walk, neatly dressed in the usual black jacket and skirt, and black head-gear. She was well-to-do looking, and evi@dently belonged to the bourgeoisie class. As we came up behind her, she slackened her pace and, after a friendly nod and word of salutation, walked beside us. Well ladies, you are visitors here, I suppose, and came by diligence ? No, madame, we came in our hired carriage. Oh, indeed. And how do you like my country ? Very much indeed, madame. We think it lovely. Better than England, ladies ? You are English, are you not ?@@@@ Corsica is much more beautiful than England, madame. Ah ! you should come here in Sep@tember. You should see the vineyards then -the grapes are  is too hot for English people then, madame. Not at all, mademoiselle. It is most beautiful then no rain like now-and such fruit everywhere. The finest grapes in the country are cultivated in these parts, and all the vineyards round here belong to me. You are a large proprietaire then, madame ? Yes, mademoiselle, I have a great deal of property. But it has given me much trouble. How so, madame ? I have had a long lawsuit over it. My sister disputed it with me. My father left me all his property here but after his death, my sister's husband tried to get it, and we had a lawsuit for years. I won the suit, of course but now my sister will not speak to me. And I have to come over here and look after the estate. Why, where do you live, madame ? In Paris, mademoiselle. Oh, there is no place in the world like Paris! It is paradise  your husband a Frenchman then, madame ? Yes, and he has a post in Paris, and lives there and so does my only son. Oh, he is a bel homme, my husband, a splendid man, ladies ! I wish you could see him. He married me when he was stationed over here in Corsica, years ago and stayed here some time. When he returned to Paris, I went with him but I have crossed the sea from Marseilles three times to visit my country, and now I have been here two years. You are quite a traveller, madame. The sea is nothing to me now, ladies. The first time, I thought I and all on board would never see land again but now I have no fears, and no illness. But I wish I could see my man again he must want me back terribly ! He is very fond of you ? inquired No. 3. Mais oui, mademoiselle, said the pretty, laughing old woman. And you, am I right in calling you mademoiselle ? Are you not married  madame, I am not married. Nor you ? she asked, turning to No. 2. Nor I either, madame. But, neither of you married ! How is that, mesdemoiselles ? she inquired, shocked at this terrible state of affairs. It is sad that no one will have us, is it not, madame ? Ah, mesdemoiselles, I do not believe that ! You are rich, and you are charm@ing. You would find plenty of suitors in Corsica. If we were married, madame, perhaps our husbands would not let us run about the world like this ! True, mademoiselle. But it is better to be married, if you can find a good husband. Why don't you come and settle down here, and marry Corsican propriétaires ? The Corsicans make good husbands. They might shoot us when they were angry, madame. Ah bah, mademoiselle ! Corsicans don't shoot their wives. A Corsican would think himself lucky to get an English wife. They are all so poor, my  s@hame, madame ! Would you have them seek a wife only for her money ?@@@@ Ah, no, mademoiselle. They would be charmed with you too, because you are so agreeable, replied this flatterer. Which do you like best, madame, France or Corsica ? Oh, mademoiselle, I love my own country, but it is '@triste@'-France is the country to be happy in. It was clear our old friend was more than half wedded to the land of her adoption, although still keeping up the dress and appearance of her girlhood's home. We parted with mutual friendliness, and returned to our inn to eat a tidy little dinner, in company with six pet cats, and a gentle little lump of canine obesity called Jeannette. Then retiring to neat little bedrooms, refreshing to the view in their dimity curtains, deliciously soft clean sheets and blankets, two usable towels, and a bond fide basin and jug.@@@@  XVI. THE LAST OF ANTONIO. THE breakfast next morning at Vivario was so deliciously and unwontedly clean and refined in appearance, as to tempt us to linger over its luxuries, and almost to for@get the rain sweeping against the windows outside. The loaf on a plate instead of on a dirty, sticky, American-cloth table-cover , toast in a rack, sugar-tongs, honey, and, greatest of all delights, a tiny pat of goat's butter, just made, and laid upon a little green china leaf, like a large pearl ! After all our vicissitudes of food and lodging, these refinements, served up in the snug, well-furnished little sitting-room, quite intoxicated us, and we began to feel once more that we were civilized beings, and not barbaric nomads on the  ten o'clock we bid a fond adieu to the six cats, Jeannette, Madame Dausoigne and her bright-faced daughter, and started for our short two hours' drive to Corte-the last of our expeditions in our snug little carriage behind the two immaculate bays, and our old friend Antonio. There was an air of softness about our driver to-day, which denoted that he himself remembered this fact and was sorry for it. The three weeks' daily contact between Antonio and his fare had considerably strengthened the liking we all conceived for him at first sight, and had established a mutual respect and regard between us and the young Corsican. He was always careful of our comforts but to-day he was more than usually solicitous, in his quiet taciturn way, over the arrangement of our cushions and wraps, and about the rain which, in defiance of his twice offered hint, we allowed to stream over us and the little carriage as we went along. Travelling in the open air all day long soon makes one hardy, and neither of us could bear to shut out what view was visible on this lovely  of sunshine, too, occasionally glinted through the trees, and lit them up with dewdrops, like a fairy garden of diamonds and, for a moment, the heavy clouds would clear away above us, and the rocks hanging overhead would show steep, turret-shaped spires rising into little oases of blue sky, with snow mountains beckoning from the other side. Not far from Vivario, we noticed coloured stakes driven into the ground to show where the projected railway across the island was to pass. This railway is to run from Bastia to Ajaccio, and will be a most expensive work, as there will be a great deal of tunnelling necessary, through the Foce Pass, and between Vivario and Corte. Some attempts have been made for its commence@ment at both the capitals, but it is now delayed, partly on account of the difficulty of obtaining funds. It will probably have to be undertaken by the French Govern@ment, and for some time, no doubt, will not pay. At Corte, two Corsican gentlemen were warmly discussing the point whether it would be most advisable to employ native or foreign labour.  people of Corsica are starving for want of employment, said onene you would not deprive them of a piece of work that would employ thousands, and take some years ? Would they take the work if it were offered them, monsieur ? inquired No. 3. Some would, mademoiselle. Some of our men wish for work and cannot ob@tain it. Only a small proportion-a very small minority, said the other Corsican. If foreign labour were employed, the work would be finished in two years if native, probably not in six. And it is more than possible, that even this small proportion of our people would not be found willing to work. You are a lazy people, monsieur. It is true, mademoiselle. And mean@while capital will lie idle. It is better for the capitalists, and better even for the country itself that the work should be done as quickly as possible. The three villages of Luco, Serraggio, and San Pietro, were now completely  lovely chestnuts, fully out and brilliant fields of flax were passed, in masses of light-blue flowers. Ponte Vecchio looked more beautiful than ever, in a passing gleam of sunshine and as we got out for a farewell to our favourite spot, we discovered the remains of the ancient Pisan bridge lower down the gorge side-a narrow arch, unparapeted, thrown across from bank to bank for foot passengers, but now lying in scattered blocks down the hill-side, or making another boulder or two to vex and rouse the roaring torrent. Meanwhile, the rain ran in a stream from Antonio's wideawake, and our concern was awakened that he still used his overcoat for a cushion, a@nd not for its normal purpose. When do you wear your overcoat, Antonio ? at length one of us asked. Is it intended for rain ? Antonio turned round with his grave smile. Yes, mademoiselle, it is for rain. But to-day is not much rain for Corsica. Not much rain ? we repeated. Why, it has been pouring for three hours. It has rained a long time, but  mademoiselle. And Antonio bent his wideawake into another convenient little spout to let off the superfluous water. Corsica is very rarely so wet as this year when we visited it. It is not generally considered a rainy country but the rain, when it does come down, is often quite tropical, and falls with a pelt that is really appalling, upon the house roofs. To-day the rain was English-like-soft summer showers, refreshing to plants, and remind@ing of April. When we entered Hotel Pierracci, after driving down the steep hill into the red-roofed street, we were streaming with water from every garment, and made large pools in the salle a manger. But the air of Corte nearly choked us. It was indescribably hot, muggy, and breath@less, and felt like the innermost chamber of a Turkish bath. The oppression was fear@ful, and although the weather had cleared up, we could not walk, and soon returned from an attempted stroll back to our hotel, to lie panting in our chairs before the open windows and closed shutters.  had brought in the last of our possessions, and came to receive the money for his master. His brown face was full of colour and friendliness, as he bade us good-bye and, with extreme shy@ness, shook our proffered hands, wishing us a safe and happy return to our own country. We felt once more the chill of our position, as strangers in a foreign land, as our good, honest little driver disappeared, remember@ing that we should now have to look after ourselves. It was a misfortune that we could not leave the next day, for Corte, though lovely, was unpleasant but it was impossible to face the idea of a ten hours' journey in the breathless interior of a small diligence, and there was no diligence with banquette until the Monday morning. So we had to console ourselves with such French novels as the small library opposite could furnish, and with staring out of our windows at the incessant stream of strollers up and down. The men have the French practice here, which we never noticed elsewhere,  each other, when on terms of intimacy, on both cheeks in the public street. Towards evening, awnings were run out from the hotel, from beneath which rose the sound of lively voices discussing native politics, and the clinking of glasses and teaspoons. Here, the upper class of Corte regaled themselves with tobacco, chat, and refreshment, to a late hour whilst their well-dressed but poorer compatriots were content to wander up and down in front, in groups of threes and fours, pipe in mouth, with grave step and conversation. Until past midnight this incessant pacing up and down the centre of the road, and the quiet hum of voices, continued through the hot, streaming, night-air. Two things struck me, both on the Saturday and Sunday night the first was the absence of drunken shouts, and the second the absence of female voices. Drunkards are undoubtedly to be found in Corsica, but apparently, a sense of the national dignity of demeanour remains even to them, and they do not shout and rave and misbehave like a Briton in  As for the women of Corsica, they never join in the public promenades and, unless it is in Bastia or Ajaccio, the rude laugh and loud voice of a bold girl seem unknown quantities. It is a puzzling problem to guess how the Corsican young women ever get married, for courtship seems a rare thing, and you never meet a young couple walking out together in the cool of evening, through the flower-scented lanes. Either matrimony is conducted in a very business-like fashion in the island, or the love-making is entirely confined to the house, and kept rigidly private. Forde CHAPTER XVII. TO BASTIA FROM CORTE. IT was seven o'clock on a tremendously hot sunny morning when we started for our last day's journey, to Bastia. Our lofty banquette was shared by the driver, and was a veritable perch, ten or twelve feet from the ground, into which the only feasible way of climbing was by seizing hold of some ropes depending from the diligence top, and swinging oneself up, acrobat fashion. A large group of gamins had assembled to witness our departure and, notwithstanding the handsome rooms and clean accommoda@tion with which Madame Pierracci had this time supplied us, we bade a last adieu to Corte without any sentiments but those of relief and wound up the steep hills, through the blazing sunshine and pure morning air, with increasing  perch had its drawbacks. We found that this diligence was alto@gether immensely inferior to the Ajaccio one, both in its steeds and its drivers. The horses were poor, stiff, worn-out brutes, that could scarcely get their exhausted limbs along, despite the incessant cracking of the long whip, and the discordant cries of their driver and the men were all, without ex@ception, the lowest specimens of Corsicans we had met with. They were one and all good-natured, but dirty and unpleasant, and had no tongue save their own patois. Their tobacco was an alarming mixture, and their cries to their angular beasts astonishing, both in nature and in shrillness. Hoi ! osera ! you assassin ! Get on, you thief ! Ar-r-ch, oisé ! you son of a drunkard, will you move on ! These, and sundry other epithets, were used with astonishing rapidity to the poor, patient, insulted horses, as we followed the some@what barren and mountainous road, with its occasional fine views. For nearly two-thirds of the way to  diligence road winds closely above the bed of the foaming Golo. It is a handsome river here, dashing along, green and wide, over grey boulders, and washing the feet of pretty wooded hills. Butterflies, blue, white, brown, and pea@cock, filled the air about us, and sheets of blue borage, crimson poppies, and golden spurge, almost hid the fern-covered bank upon one side. The drive would have been charming, if it had not been for the little annoyances of the dirty driver, and of the overcrowded condition of the diligence. We had, in ignorance, timed our journey to Whit-Monday and now found, to our cost, that the Fête de Pentecote is an equal holiday with English and Corsicans. There was apparently no limit to the number that might be stowed away in every nook and corner of the creaking vehicle and, at every turn of the road, we picked up a new wayfarer. These were chiefly men, dressed in vel@veteen holiday attire, every man having his gun strapped behind his shoulder, and gourd under his left  Twelve was the original number intended by the coachmaker as the fare-viz., six inside, three in the coupe, and three on the coachman's box, or banquette but, before we had done picking up stray passengers, our number was twenty-five ! The tarpaulin cover had been taken off the top of the diligence, and twelve persons were drawn up here, precariously lodged where the luggage only should have been. Among the velveteened men, were two fat women, and several soldiers and all were as merry as possible, chaffing and joking good-humouredly, and the soldiers occasionally starting a song. The diligence swayed unpleasantly with its heavy load, and the poor horses lagged more than ever whilst we were nearly ousted from our elevated seats, and sent flying over their heads into the road below, by the pressure of stout forms behind us. Some hard substance in the coat pocket of the man behind me caused me consider@able annoyance, running ruthlessly into my back and at last I ventured to lodge a complaint on the  I said, nudging the muscular owner of the brown velveteen coat with my elbow in the only fashion possible in our circumscribed position Monsieur, you have something very hard in your pocket ! The man, and the woman sitting beside him, turned to stare but regarded me with stolid curiosity without replying. But, monsieur, I said, goaded to in@dignation by his want of sympathy, excuse me if I ask you to remove it. Whatever it be, it is uncommonly hard, and it hurts me. Again the stolid stare, and the astonished silence, broken at length by the woman's voice. Tiens ! she exclaimed, with a laugh, c'est ton pistolet@ @@! His pistol ! I said, with considerable animation. Do you carry your pistol loaded, monsieur ? The big Corsican looked at me with a quiet scorn. Mais oui, he replied, coolly certaine@ment ! And he gave it a tug,  shoulders, that brought its muzzle into rather closer contact with me than before. I hope you won't shoot me, said I whereat they all laughed. Mademoiselle, said a merry young soldier, in bright blue, in the next row,. do you never carry a pistol when you are travelling ?@@@@ Not in Corsica, said I. It is un@necessary, as no one is ever uncivil to ladies in this country. At which innocent little bit of flattery they all grinned benignantly. But for the next three or four hours there that pistol remained, with its muzzle pressed firmly against my back. I don't know what would be the sensation of most people under similar circumstances but for a few minutes mine were novel, and I found but a semi-consolation in the reflection that to be shot through the heart is a comparatively pain@less end. In half an hour, however, I had forgotten the fact. And, fortunately, Corsican pistol@s appear to have stiffish triggers for, not@withstanding several grand jolts, it kept  to itself, and forbore to deposit them between my shoulder-blades. Meanwhile, the little army of guns were placed on the top of the hood over our heads, from whence a stiffer jolt than usual would occasionally bring one or two flying down, to be caught in mid-air by the passengers, before they had perpetrated any mischief. All travellers are not equally fortunate in escaping gun accidents under like circum@stances. Only a short time before, on this very road, a passenger, sitting in the coupe, suddenly discharged his loaded gun by accident, and its contents were lodged in the heart of another man above, who died instantaneously. Both murderer and murdered were poor men and eighty francs was all that the former was able to pay as compensation to the widow of the poor fellow killed by his carelessness. Such accidents are by no means rare but it would take a vast number of them to teach Corsicans that the carrying of loaded firearms is not essential to their dignity and  At about noon the diligence stopped at a wayside inn for déjeuner but having, for certain reasons, our suspicions of the food provided therein, and also preferring the lovely, hot, outside air to the foul, hot, inside air, we walked on down the road, beside the roaring river and the sloping rocks. We had not gone far before we came upon a bank, forty or fifty feet long, composed of a mass of the most magnificent maiden-hair fern, growing in fronds more than a foot long, and wonderfully luxuriant. Here we passed a solitary man sitting by the wayside, who eyed us attentively, and saluted us as we came up. After a minute or two he came after us curiosity getting the better of the native pride for once , and walked alongside, plying us with the usual questions. He was particularly delighted with our praise of his country, and tried to persuade us to pay it a longer visit. He remarked that he had been puzzled as to our nationality, as he had never seen any Englishwomen before, and the French ladies did not walk after our energetic  in truth, after we had parted from our communicative friend, our energy soon faded, and we toiled slowly up the steep hill under a perfectly broiling sun, glad at last to creep into a scrap of shade a foot or two square, which was all a lengthened scrutiny could discover on the blazing road@way. It was the hottest sun we had felt since our arrival-a sun against which the combined protection of leaves inside the hat, pocket-handkerchiefs as puggerees, and thick umbrellas were of but little avail. As we rested, at length, on the summit of the hill, an elderly Corsican gentleman joined us, also waiting for the diligence. He seemed very much amused at the inde@pendence of English ladies, but said it was perfectly safe in Corsica, where no native would act otherwise than courteously to a stranger and that he wished it was the fashion for his countrywomen to move about a little more. He had never been out of his own land himself, but was extremely curious about English manners and customs, and thought he must come some day to England. He inquired  expenses of travelling in England, as he had heard that they were excessive. What seemed to horrify him most was the price of horses in our country. He said he could buy a capital horse in Corsica for three hundred francs £12 and he could scarcely credit the fact when we told him that one thousand francs £40 would purchase but a poor beast in England. He did not think much of the French rule in his island, and hoped for but one benefit from the fusion of the two races, viz., the rousing of his own people from the lethargy regarding domestic pursuits, with which centuries of warfare had impregnated them. Our friend was a most polite and agreeable companion, and it was interesting to con@verse with him, for he represented the older Corsican type, before the native character and sentiments had been obliterated by French education, and mimicry of French thought-as is the case now with most of the younger and more travelled Corsican gentlemen. At last the diligence lumbered up, and up every one climbed-soldiers,  fat women, and ourselves-to our perches, to descend the long white dusty road still skirting the river side, and @occasionally passing little groups of women and girls down by its brink, engaged in gathering into baskets the hard grey pebbles, which they then placed in heaps beside the path for its mending. The long flat road to Bastia continued monotonously for ten or twelve miles but about seven or eight miles from the town a sudden turn brought before us the most extensive and magnificent view. For miles on every side extended a vast unbroken plain, and the east coast lay before us spread out in sweeps of pale green marshy land, bright blue sea, and intersecting salt lakes. A little further on, Bastia herself came into view, standing white and picturesque against her brown rocks, and over her sunny sea, on which lay many a white-sailed vessel, unmoved by breath of wind or sway of tide in the hot calm of the June day, whilst the large village of Furriano, on an adjacent hill, looked greyly down from its cool green nest of  the last few miles before reaching Bastia, the banks by the wayside were hedged with the most splendid pointed-leaved cactus in the island, growing eight or ten feet high, and varied by sheets of rich blossomed flowers. The road was gay with holiday makers, in carts, on mules, and on foot-chiefly men, with a few women and we noticed, as we neared this side of the country, the increasing brightness of the costumes of both men and women, and the relief from the universal black of the interior. The men wore gay sashes and coloured caps, and even the women ventured on a striped headkerchief. Between three and four o'clock we entered Bastia, having deposited most of our holiday passengers at the entrance to the town and were not sorry to jump down from our stifling banquette on to the blazing road before the diligence office. Here we said good-bye to our elderly friend, who intro@duced a nice-looking boy whom he had just embraced, as his son and finding two strong-armed women to carry our  the street, once more entered the Hotel de France, and greeted our friends, including the gentlemanly old proprietor, his son, and the conceited little waiter, who, with his three or four companions, seemed genuinely pleased to welcome us again. A stroll up the shady side of the streets filled up the time till table d'hôte, when we again found ourselves the only ladies amongst a lively party of twenty or thirty French and Corsicans. The Leghorn boat was to leave at 10 p.m., and at 9.30 we started for the dock side, kindly escorted by M. Valery himself, the head of the shipping firm. It was a good boat, with a deck saloon and upper deck-in every way very superior to the one in which we had arrived. So was the weather. Not a breath of wind disturbed the utter stillness of the atmosphere, and the moon was rising in golden glory against a deep blue sky. Had it not been for the intense heat, it would have been a perfect night but as we paced slowly up and down beside the dock it was almost difficult to  at length the last bell rang, and we were all on board, and pushing out to sea, the scene was exquisite. Bastia, with her many lights, moving slowly away into soft haziness above, the unclouded moon, and three or four brilliant stars and, on the water, lying just across our track of foam, a golden sheet of glory stretching across from horizon to deck. The heat made it impossible to enter even the saloon cabin. We, at any rate, thought so, although the foreign passengers all managed to bear it so we camped out for the night on a high coil of ropes, which presently, in the soaking dews, became a perfect mass of sponge. The damp, however, notwithstanding the evil prognostications of the steward, proved harmless and it was, at any rate, a choice of evils, between possible fever and almost certain asphyxia. The sw@ell increased as we got into mid sea, but the calm and the clear light con@tinued and we could see the shapes of Elba's hills as we passed under their lee-the very lighthouse on one of them,  the figures of the sailors on the deck of the slower-going vessel which was bound upon the same route as ourselves. And so, in the romantic stillness of the summer night, and the glorious moonlight, fitly faded away the dim outlines of the little island and Corsica became a beauti@ful dream of the past. As Corsica is, comparatively speaking, an untravelled country, it may be as well to add a few particulars for the benefit of tourists. There are two principal routes from London. One is by the direct line through France from Paris to Marseilles thence, by sixteen hours' steaming, to Ajaccio. The other is through the Mont Cenis tunnel, from Paris to Turin thence by Genoa to Leghorn, and by seven hours' steam to Bastia. The first route is undoubtedly the best and shortest for any but the worst of sailors. The Marseilles steamers are larger and better than those of Leghorn, and the whole journey from England can be done in a little more than three days whereas the  cannot well be done, by ladies at any rate, in less than four. By the former journey, too, the annoy@ance of three custom-house visitations is reduced to one and, for those who have no particular wish to cross the island, a two days' journey in diligence is avoided-which journey is often unsafe and unpleasant in winter, on account of the heavy snows on the mountain passes near Corte. As regards expenses, Corsica is by no means a dear country. About nine francs a day will pay for all expenses of food and lodgings-sometimes less and, as a rule, the better hotels are quite equally inexpen@sive with the wretched country inns. As there are 'no railways, travelling, of course, has to be done exclusively by driv@ing and there are no comfortable vehicles @@@@@@to be found elsewhere than at Ajaccio and Bastia. At the latter place, their number is extremely limited. A nice open carriage, with hood, and pair of horses, is charged at the rate of twenty francs a day, and two francs a day at least is expected by the driver. Thus, whilst  driving tour, if shared, as it usually is, with a companion, the travellers' daily expenses will be a little more than doubled, or about twenty francs, including every@thing. This, I think, is a far cheaper rate of travelling than in any other European country besides being a most agreeable and efficient mode of seeing the beauties of nature. Corsicans are first-rate drivers and their steeds, though unsightly, very sure-footed. The climate is delicious in early spring, and the flowers and trees in their glory in April and May. The lowland towns become hot and unhealthy for visitors, in June, if not before but for those who do not mind roughing it, or who are anxious for sport, the higher villages and mountain forests afford health and enjoyment all the summer. The east coast of the island is to be avoided by travellers. It has few beauties to offer, and is rife with malarious fever nine months out of the twelve. Corsican fever is remarkably unpleasant and clinging, and has been known to return year after year to its victim, ending in  patients, coming for the winter months to Ajaccio, will find every comfort there but those who come to see the island must not be too particular regard@ing the luxuries or even necessaries of life. A good dinner at sunset without garlic and nicely cooked , they will obtain with@out difficulty, even at the tiniest villages but that will probably be the only eatable meal in the day,-and sour bread and coffee for breakfast, and sour bread and cheese for lunch, will leave them in a condition to appreciate its delights. As regards the cleanliness or uncleanli@ness of the accommodation in the country inns, the opinions of tourists in Corsica differ so widely that one is slow to pro@nounce a strong verdict upon the subject. I can only say that we found few pleasant, and many disgusting, on this point but I must add that this opinion is considered uncharitable by more than one friend who has travelled as much in the country as we did. At the Ajaccio, Corte, and Sartene hotels, we found perfectly clean  the same could be said of the village inns at Propriano, Vivario, Evisa, Ghisoni, and Belgodere Bonifacio was not bad, and Carghese might have been worse in some respects. Enough has been said to warn the traveller from visiting Bocognano or Calvi and Zicavo and Solenzara bear likewise an exceedingly bad reputation. At Propriano, Vivario, or Evisa, a pleasant stay might be made. Propriano is on the sea level, and has not much to recommend it except its sea, its shells, and its lovely views but Vivario and Evisa are situated in the midst of exquisite mountain scenery, and would make suitable summer halting-places. @@@@ XVIII. HISTORY OF CORSICA. THE history of Corsica, from the earliest times down to the middle of the eighteenth century, is an unparalleled history of blood@shed, misery, and heroism. As far as is known, the first colonization of the island was the work of Phocaeans but, about 260 B.C., it fell into the hands of the Romans. The conquest of Corsica, even in these early days, and attempted by so formidable a power as that of Rome, was, however, no light matter and for about one hundred years the brave little island kept her conquerors at bay. Finally, however, she succumbed, re@maining in their hands for several cen@turies in fact, until the fall of the Roman  this time until the close of the eleventh century, the story of Corsica is nothing but a series of contests, external and civil. One foe after another attacked and devas@tated the unhappy island. Greeks, Saracens, Tuscans, and others in turn attempted to possess themselves of it fighting over it like dogs over a bone, or handing it un@scrupulously from one to another. The natives, meanwhile, were engaged in an incessant heroic struggle with their foes, to whom they never willingly submitted, at the same time that they were resisting the cruel tyrannies of their own feudal aris@tocracy. Trade was unknown, and cultivation neg@lected the coasts, harassed by marauders, were deserted the inland villages, a prey to the lawless exactions of the barons, were impoverished and many of the poorer people took refuge among the fastnesses of their mountains, carrying with them little but their weapons and their freedom. In the tenth century, however, notwith@standing the confusion and warfare  around, we hear of the first consti@tution framed by the Corsicans, under their legislator Sambuccio. This democratic republic was the founda@tion of all the later constitutions in the island, even including that of Paoli, and bears a strong testimony to the intelligence and the self-respect of a people whose patriotism could not be denied even by their enemies, but who were considered on the continent as a semi-barbarous race. The head of the constitution consisted of a Council of Twelve, chosen by the podestas, who comprised the lower legislative body. These podestas, or magistrates, were the presidents of their respective provincial assemblies, each formed of a certain number of scattered parishes, or pieves and, as@sociated with them, were certain Fathers of the Community. These men were probably elected for a year, and were to have a special eye to the interests of the poorer or more defenceless portion of the community. They, again, had the right of choosing their own president, termed the Caporale, who was expressly intended  people's representative in the highest council and elsewhere. In 1098 Pope Urban who, without any fair title, laid claim to the ownership of Corsica installed the Archbishop of Pisa as feudal lord over the island. For about a hundred years, the Pisans kept possession of it, or at least parts of it, never wholly subduing the warlike and determined inhabitants and, during this time they governed wisely and well, build@ing towns and making roads, and en@couraging, as far as they were able in the disturbed condition of the island, industry and agriculture. But the moderate govern@ment of Pisa was not long to remain unmolested. The Genoese were beginning to cast covetous eyes upon Corsica and, in the beginning of the twelfth century, per@suaded the See of Rome to bestow upon them about one-half of the territory she had, rather more than a century before, given to Pisa. The Pisans, naturally resenting this action, prepared to defend what they considered their property and, for the next  fifty years, an almost incessant contest was kept up between the two parties, some of the natives remaining neutral, but for the most part joining one side or the other. The great hope and support of the Pisans was a noble Corsican of the name of Guidice della Rocca, who had lived for many years in exile at the court of Pisa, but had not ceased to love his country with a burning ardour, and who foresaw, in the rule of Genoa, a cruel taskmaster, and the extinction of the growing prosperity of his country. He was brave, determined, and wise and, for a long time, his efforts against the Genoese, in command of the Pisan troops, were attended with success. But both Bonifacio and Calvi were not only garrisoned, but to a great extent colonized by natives of Genoa, and with these points d'appui and the superior power of Genoa to back him up, General Doria could not but, after a time, get the better @of his opponents. When blind and very old, Della Rocca, the noble patriot and just judge, was treacherously betrayed into the hands of  enemies by a son of his own, and ended his days, deserted and uncared for, in a wretched dungeon in Genoa. From that time until the middle of the eighteenth century, Corsica remained writh@ing beneath the scourge of the Genoese power sometimes, however, shaking off the yoke and chastising the enemy, and never, for more than a few years at a time, re@maining quiescent beneath the tyranny they loathed. Crushed but not quelled, ruined but not disheartened, decimated but never terrified, the Corsican nature, strong and simple, remained true to its universal instinct, the principle which was their very life and being, and which they imbibed with their mother's milk-love of country and love of liberty. During that time, the land literally bathed its plains in the blood of martyrs, and no Corsican thought it too much to give up home and life for the sake of that suffering country which was so dear to him in her suffering, or that freedom which was to him more than life  castle of Guidice della Rocca, who was the first Corsican of mark to lose his life in disputing the invasion of Genoa, is situated on a lofty rock above Monticelli, a mountain village about half-way between San Fiorenzo and Isola Rossa. It is now, of course, in ruins, but still commands the road below with stern grey walls that are not the less grand for the decaying touch of age. About seventy years after the death of Guidice, another of his family rose up, Arrigo by name, who, until he was poisoned in the year 1401, did good service for his country, vanquishing the Genoese, driving them for some years almost entirely from the island, and winning the friendship of the king of Spain. But Arrigo, although wise and brave, was cruel and he soon raised up a strong home faction against himself by his remorseless measures. This was headed by some of the barons, who ultimately drove him from the country. But only for two months after which time, Arrigo della Rocca re-appeared, defeated the Genoese, and regained his power in the  Genoa had not now to learn for the first time the use of poison, nor to seek far for assassins to carry out her infamous designs. In the history of Corsica, treachery and murder on the part of the Genoese republic play a conspicuous part, and they were foes with which the devoted heroism and the ceaseless energy of their opponents were unable to cope. As fast, however, as one patriot of note disappeared, another rose up in his place to take the part of leader among his distracted countrymen and Vincentello d'Istria, reared an exile, and serving in the army of the king of Aragon, but by birth belonging to the same noble family as Arrigo, was the next to make his name famous in his country's cause. For more than fifteen years he led his countrymen, with varying success, against the Genoese forces at one time even wresting from them Calvi, their great stronghold, and going near to possessing himself also of Bonifacio, which, however, after a brave resistance by its Genoese garrison, was relieved at the last  But at length force and intrigue together proved too much for D'Istria, his enemies cunningly sowing dissensions in every avail@able quarter, and rousing up against him the antagonism of some of the proud and law@less seigniors, or barons. He left Corsica to entreat the assistance of Spain, but was taken prisoner on the voyage, and ended his days by decapitation at Genoa in 1434. For the next twenty years greater con@fusion than ever reigned in the unhappy island. Here and there a noble-minded patriot was to be found amongst the barons, a man who loved his country better than rank or wealth, and who could merge his own interests uncomplainingly in those of his suffering countrymen but as a rule, the seigniors were selfish and proud, fighting more for their own supremacy than for the freedom of their land, and the nobler spirits were to be found amongst those of less noble birth. During these twenty years half a dozen barons kept up petty civil wars in their country, each striving after the  or king of Corsica whilst the contest with the Genoese troops never flagged and the king of Aragon likewise put in a claim to the island. In 1453, by the consent of the puzzled and distracted people, whose blood had been shed unavailingly in every direction, and whose foes were as numerous as the hydra-headed monster, it was resolved to accept the protection or supremacy of the Bank of St. George of Genoa, a company of capi@talists, useful to the Genoese court, which ceded its Corsican claims to them. The Bank accordingly commenced its process of farming Corsica, which, save for an in@terregnum of about twenty years, when the Milanese and Piombinese took their place, was continued for nearly three hundred years. But not unchallenged. A large proportion of the people had never consented from the first to this change of masters. They had no greater faith in the Bank of Genoa than in the Court of Genoa, and preferred death, star@vation, and ruin to any foreign master. And by degrees the cruel exactions  injustice of the new governors brought over to their opinion the small remnant who, in their despair, had agreed to the new arrangement. Another Della Rocca appeared on the scene at this time, and for many years he and a rival nobleman, Giavanni Paoli da Leca, with their retainers, fought with equal spirit against each other and against the common enemy. In 1501, Da Leca was driven from his beloved country, never to return but the dauntless Renuccio della Rocca continued his efforts for many years longer. Con@stantly defeated and chased from the island, he as constantly returned again to harass his bitter foes, sometimes accompanied only by a few followers. Twice he was forced to come to terms, and was carried as a prisoner to Genoa but his spirit never failed, and each time he managed, after a short space, to escape from prison, the Genoese on the first occa@sion revenging themselves for the loss of the father by the execution of his eldest  1510 this determined man returned for the last time to his native land, with only eight followers. The peasantry were ex@hausted and decimated by ceaseless wars, and the leader for whom they longed was the exiled Da Leca. They knew the cause was hopeless and Della Rocca, the declared enemy of their favoured Da Leca, had not their confidence. They pitied him, but they would not follow him and Renuccio became a wandering bandit amongst the western hills. His previous unsuccessful risings had been fol@lowed by the most remorseless cruelties on the part of Andreas Dorea, the Genoese @commander, who had tortured the inhabit@ants and laid waste the villages which had given countenance or shelter to their fellow-countryman. And now, once more resolved to free itself of this unpleasant enemy, the Genoese Bank recommenced its usual course of cruel persecution. Renuccio was sought for in every direc@tion by bands of Italian soldiers, whilst the unhappy villagers around were put to  to force them to discover his where@abouts. This no man was found capable of doing. They would not deliver the man who had fought for them and for their country into the hands of his enemies but, overcome by their miseries, they slew him themselves, and his dead body was found at length among the fastnesses around Ajaccio, in May, 1511. For now nearly forty years, there was a temporary lull in the active resistance of the Corsicans to their masters and during this time the Genoese Bank mitigated a little their severity, and ruled their ill-gotten possession with some apparent benevolence. Many of the higher nobles migrated to other lands, and entering foreign service, distinguished themselves in continental war@fare. The people, meanwhile, were suffering from national exhaustion consequent on the incessant destructive warfare of centuries, and perhaps also waiting to see if the present promise of a paternal government were likely to be  had not long to wait. The fair pledges of the Bank soon faded away-the reality of cruel exactions took their place -and once more the indefatigable people rose to arms. The period of apparent calm had but been the moment's lull before the storm, the gathering up of fresh forces for renewed contest. And those few years had matured perhaps the greatest man ever pro@duced by Corsica-a man whose heroism and whose devotion were equal to Paoli's, but who possessed besides a savage grandeur of nature peculiar to himself, his country, and his age. This was Sampiero, the truest friend, the most implacable foe, and perhaps the most iron-nerved man the world has ever known. His youth was spent abroad, and he served with equal distinction amongst the Medici Black Bands at Florence, and sub@sequently with the French army, where he became colonel of a Corsican regiment under Francis I., and won the friendship of Bayard. It was not until Sampiero was nearly fifty years old that he took any active part in the struggles of his  two years before, @he had visited his native land in order to woo and win the beautiful Vannina Ornano for his wife. The Ornano family was, in point of nobility, far superior to Sampiero's own, but the Corsican colonel's fame in courts and in the field was already too widely spread for him to be considered an unworthy son-in-law to any noble whilst he himself, we may well believe, was of an appearance well fitted to succeed in winning the affec@tions of any woman. He was a tall man, with the carriage and piercing eye of a soldier, and with dark curling hair and features of a stern nobility, that harmonized well with his character. His nature was@ simple and self-denying, his life spotless and engrossed with noble aims, and his depth of affection great but his anger was terrible, and his scorn for weakness or dis@honesty almost cruel. The history of his marriage is a terrible romance, ending in tragedy. He was already, at the time of his mar@riage, dreaded by the masters of his country as one likely to be a formidable foe  only followed their usual illegal system of tyranny, in falling upon him so soon as he set foot in his own land, and thrusting him into prison. He was soon liberated again, owing to the interference of the French ambassador at the Genoese court but the incident cannot fail to have deep@ened his determination to be his country's deliverer when occasion offered. An opening soon occurred in the project of the French king to lead his troops against Corsica, both as an injury to Genoa, with whom he was at war, and also as a menace to their ally and his enemy, the emperor of Germany. In the year 1553, a French fleet, joined by some Turkish vessels, and having on board Marshal Thermes, and Admiral Paulin, and Sampiero himself, together with many other exiled Corsican patriots, sailed for the island. An emissary had already been despatched thither some time before by Sampiero, and the greater part of the nation were awaiting their arrival with eagerness, prepared to welcome the French as friends, and to assist them against the common  The gates of Bastia were immediately thrown open to the invaders. The Genoese garrison and bastion walls of Calvi and Bonifacio proved for some time too strong for Turkish and French vessels but San Fiorenzo was made to capitulate to Thermes, and the impregnable Corte, and the fortress of Ajaccio, both threw wide their gates to welcome Sampiero. Presently Bonifacio, after a heroic resist@ance by the Genoese garrison, surrendered to the Turks and the Genoese, routed in every direction, had no single fortress left to them save Calvi. For about three months these successes continued when the Genoese Bank, terrified at the loss of all their possessions, sent Andreas Doria to the rescue. Doria was now an aged man, but his good fortune remained true to him, and he succeeded in wresting back some of the victories obtained by the French. Sampiero being also about this time in@capacitated by a severe wound, he defeated the Corsicans in the battle of Morosaglia. This defeat, however, quickly brought  hero from his bed, again to turn t@he fate of war and for five years the contest continued with varying success. Then followed a cruel stroke to the poor deluded islanders, w@ho had fancied that France was for ever to be their protector and ally. The king of France, tired of war, and ungenerously forgetful of former promises, concluded a treaty with his con@tinental enemies, by which he again sur@rendered Corsica to her old tyrant Genoa. Decimated and discouraged, the Corsicans saw their six years of bloodshed and im@poverishment wasted by the political sel@fishness of their stronger neighbours, and the independence for which they had so willingly laid down life, and laid desolate @home, toyed with as a plaything, and bartered by the monarch in whose good faith they had trusted. But, if their power of resistance was not crushed, much less was Sampiero's. Throw@ing up his old employment, he now travelled from court to court, seeking assistance for his beloved country in this her last and most treacherous stroke of  engaged in this occupation, a terrible domestic calamity suddenly reached his ears-a calamity which, to his half-savage, wholly-noble mind, engrossed with love of country and a passion for that country's freedom, seemed the cruellest and basest disgrace that had ever befallen a man. His wife Vannina, who had not lived much, in these troublous times, with her stern and warlike husband, was now residing with her two boys at Marseilles, under French protection. The Genoese, hoping to injure Sampiero through her weakness, surrounded the lonely woman by friendly seeming spies, who at length persuaded her credulous nature that the cause of her husband was one useless to his country, prejudicial to his own interests, and that it was the duty of a true wife to dissuade, rather than to abet this madman in his lawless endeavours@@. Sampiero was in Algiers seeking the assistance of the celebrated Barbarossa, when news was brought him that Vannina was about to escape to Genoa.  able to credit the terrible idea that his own wife could desert the cause that to him was more sacred than life, he yet refused to leave the work on which he was engaged, and sent a friend instead to Marseilles to follow and intercept the fugitive. Vannina was overtaken at Antibes, and took refuge in the bishop's house. The prelate, however, afraid perhaps of Sampiero, soon ejected the miserable woman, who proceeded to Aix. The Parliament there offered her its protection. But Vannina, though weak, was of Cor@sican blood, and sprung from a race of heroes, and she refused to be protected from her husband. I have sinned, she said, sadly I am his wife let him do to me what he pleases. And she waited for his arrival in the castle of Zaizi, near Aix, where, after con@cluding his more pressing business, the stern patriot came to fetch her. Silently the two travelled back together to the deserted home at Marseilles the heart of one full of bitter pain and  anger, the other of a sad realization of her treachery. What was the tempest raging in the mind of Sampiero, we know not but it is im@possible to believe that one of his nature contemplated murder beforehand. As he crossed the threshold of the house, where he had left Vannina a beloved and trusted wife, now empty and tenantless owing to her desertion of her country's cause and her want of faith in him, the realization of the disgrace she had brought upon herself and him, and the disloyalty she might even have instilled into the hearts of their children, suddenly roused the demon of passion in his breast, and pos@sessed by madness, he turned upon her and plunged his dagger in her heart. It was fifteen years now since the rugged Corsican had married his beautiful bride, and his love for her had never cooled. The very fierceness of his affection, however, only added a sting to the frenzy of his out@raged feelings and if Sampiero ever re@pented him of his cruel deed, none knew of that remorse, further than believing  read its signs on the sterner, sadder features of the old man's face. In 1564 Sampiero landed in Corsica with a little band of about fifty men, French and Corsicans. He had been courteously treated by one and all of the courts he had visited, but he had failed to obtain any help for his country more substantial than promises. In accordance with his chivalric spirit, he burnt, on landing, the vessel in which he had arrived, that the means of return might be closed to his followers and himself. As he advanced into the country the people everywhere rose and joined him and, defeating the Genoese before Corte, he took possession of that important citadel. The victory of Vescovato soon followed and the Genoese, trembling for their cause, sent Stephen Doria with a superior force to oppose the skilful patriot. One of Doria's first actions was a puerile and ignoble one. Marching to Bastelica, the birthplace of the great Corsican, he burnt the village, and destroyed Sampiero's  Sampiero's house and his possessions were little to him, compared to the suffer@ings of his country and he was far more deeply touched by the cruelties inflicted on the harmless and the innocent by his un@feeling foe. For three years he carried on the warfare, more or less successfully, against the very superior forces of Genoa and during this time was not merely the military leader of his people, but also their statesman, convoking national assemblies, which he guided by his far-seeing wisdom to prudent measures, and in every way endeavouring to lay the seeds of a consti@tution that, when peace should come, might be a blessing to his country. But the patriot was doomed at length to fall by treachery. Since the fatal act of passion which resulted in his wife's death, the family of the Ornano had naturally become his bitterest foes and, to abet their terrible vendetta, they deserted their very country and offered to assist the Genoese by stratagem. The old warrior was decoyed by forged letters, with but a small party of  a narrow defile, where his enemies, rushing suddenly from their ambuscade, swarmed upon him, eager for his blood. The old lion fought hard for life, but was at length overcome, and his head cut off and carried to Doria. It was in the year 1567, when Sampiero was in his sixty-ninth year, that this greatest of Corsicans thus fell, by the sword of his fellow-countrymen. For two years his eldest son Alfonso con@tinued the war with considerable success and then a treaty was concluded with Genoa on favourable terms for the brave little island. For the next fifty years Corsica remained inactive depressed and miserable under renewed Genoese exactions and tyrannies, but too exhausted to resume hostilities. In 1729, however, fighting again broke out, suddenly roused by one of the many private wrongs then pressing upon the lower orders, and@ the rebellion soon spread over the whole island. It was well organized under two leaders of energy and ability, and was  in its measures than ever. Internal reforms had been effected, a general oath of resistance to the death against Genoa was adopted, and the very clergy, who had sometimes shown themselves but lukewarm friends to their country's cause, were at length roused by the dishonesty of the republic, to take part with their fellow-countrymen, and to declare the war a sacred one. Genoa had recourse to the emperor of Germany, from whom she bought several thousand mercenaries, who were sent across the sea to try their skill upon these uncon@querable islanders. Genoa paid high for her assistance thirty thousand gulden monthly for the force of eight thousand men and for every man killed or deserting, a compensation of one hundred gulden. The Corsicans, who knew of this arrange@ment, and who, half armed and half clothed, half starved and unaided, had nothing but their own natural skill in warfare, and their heritage of heroism upon which to depend, were in nowise intimidated by their new antagonists but, when they struck  German, were in the habit of shouting scornfully, A hundred gulden, Genoa ! Meanwhile, the courage and chivalry of his insular foes had won for them the regard of the opposing General Wachten@donk and, chiefly through his mediation, a treaty, supposed to be favourable to the islanders, was concluded between Genoa and the Corte legislative assembly in 1732. Wachtendonk remained in the island another year to see the treaty carried out, and in June, 1734, the German general returned to his own country, carrying with him the regard of his enemies, who would fain have had to deal with him instead of the republic that had hired him. But he had scarcely retired before the treaty was broken. Genoa began anew her system of illegal arrests and attempted assassinations and, once more, the people rose under Hyacinth Paoli, an obscure native of the little village of Morosaglia, but a man of spirit and talent, and a scholar. Under the direction of this man, and of Giafferi, his colleague, a democratic consti@tution, in the highest degree prudent  was framed for the Corsican people whilst the popular enthusiasm in the continued war found vent in standards representing the Holy Virgin and her Son, implying that, unassisted as they were, and unreached by human sympathy or com@passion, they placed themselves beneath the guardianship of Heaven. Early in the next year occurred a strange and romantic adventure in this adventure@ful country. A man, handsome and well-dressed, sur@rounded by obsequious courtiers, and at@tended by every luxury, landed in the island from a vessel well-furnished with gold, ammunition, and arms. This man was a German adventurer, Baron Theodore von Neuhoff, who, after a romantic youth, had suddenly conceived a desire to become king of Corsica. He was a man of great talent and personal fascination, of good judgment, and enthu@siastic disposition. He had fallen in love with the bravery and determination of the Corsicans, and longed to head such a  put himself into communication with the leading islanders and, having really some little influence at the conti@nental courts, persuaded them that he had much more. He offered to obtain such assistance from foreign potentates, by his persuasions, as should effectually oust the Genoese and, in return, requested the crown of Corsica. His genius and his enthusiasm were so great, and his promises so dazzling, that, after some hesitation, the poor Corsicans, in their despair, seized upon this last straw and in March, 1736, Theodore was crowned king. His exertions for the good of his country were untiring. He established manufactures and promoted with all his power art and commerce, at the same time that, with all the force of his genius, he endeavoured to persuade foreign powers to lend their assist@ance to his new subjects in the field. His style of living meanwhile was regal and sumptuous, and a contemporary Italian historian tells us that he was incessantly surrounded by a state guard, and that  were served to him from the richest silver dishes. But, alas ! the fleet which he had pro@mised his new subjects never arrived. The foreign princes declined to assist him and presently the Corsicans became dissatisfied, and began to demand some@thing more convincing than reiterated promises. Towards the conclusion of his first year of sovereignty, Theodore left Corsica on a continental tour, with the avowed object of hastening the promised succour. In two years he returned, bring@ing with him three large and several smaller war vessels, handsomely laden with ammu@nition, which had actually been raised by means of his talents and persuasive faculties, chiefly amongst the Dutch. But, meanwhile, the Corsicans had had other affairs to which to attend. France had interfered at the request of Genoa and negociations were actively going on, which the arrival of the pseudo-king could only interrupt. Theodore, although now so well attended, found himself unheeded and  after a few months was forced to leave his new kingdom to its fate, and to return to the continent. Five years later, in 1743, he again re@turned, again well equipped, this time with English vessels, but with the same ill success. Convinced now that his chance was over and his dream of royalty destroyed, Theodore returned to England with a sore heart, spending his remaining years in this asylum for dethroned kings and ruined adventurers. His tomb may be seen in Westminster Abbey. For the next five and twenty years the war continued between Corsica and Genoa, still fought out on the blood-deluged plains of the unhappy little island. But the republic of Genoa was now long past her prime, and her energies were fading into senility and, had it not been for the ever-increasing assistance of France, her intrepid foes would long ere this have got the better of her. In May, 1768, a treaty was signed be@tween Genoa and France, by which the republic ceded her now enfeebled  Corsica to her ally, and left @her long-oppressed victim to fight the contest out with the French troops. During this time, first Gaffori, then Pasquale Paoli, were the leaders of the people. Gaffori, a man of refinement, and a hero of skill and intrepidity, was murdered in a vendetta in 1753, and in 1755 Pasquale, youngest son of the old patriot Hyacinth Paoli, left his position as officer in the Neapolitan service, and landed, by the general desire of his own people, at Aleria, to undertake the command of the Corsican army. Pasquale was quite a young man at this time, but was well known to be a highly educated student of no mean abilities, and a soldier who had served with distinction in foreign active service. He did not confine his services to the military affairs of his country, but en@deavoured to put a stop to that terrible internal scourge, the vendetta, which was ruining a noble people. Notwithstanding that he was now and then harassed by opposition from one  of the inland nobles, he continued his good work, and effected many domestic reforms, at the same time that he fitted out a Corsican fleet, and successfully resisted the French attacks. From 1764 to 1768 a truce was concluded between the foes and this time Paoli spent in preparations for future emergencies, and in a wise consolidation of the independent constitution of his country. Militia were trained and handed, schools established, and crime punished and law and order, under the wise administration of this great man, began everywhere to prevail. In August, 1768, the truce was to expire but, before the appointed day had arrived,. an army of twenty thousand French sud@denly swooped down upon the luckless island, and endeavoured by sheer force of numbers to crush out resistance at once and for ever. It was a hopeless struggle for Corsica but the heroism of the undaunted people moved all Europe to sympathy. A company of Germans, and many other foreigners, joined their ranks and  by side with the patriots in the defence of their island. The French sent over their best generals to the small country and Marboeuf, Chauvelin, and De Vaux in turn worked at its subjugation. A short but desperate struggle ensued, which was distinguished by the wildest and most romantic deeds of valour and, against the greatest odds, the Corsicans at first got the better of their formidable foe, at the Bridge of Golo, in the taking of Borgo, and in other lesser actions. Boys, and even women, joined in the fight whilst quarter was refused and unasked. Marboeuf was wounded, and the garrison of Borgo, consisting of seven hundred men, forced to surrender, after the defeat of the entire French army. Ten new battalions were sent for from France, and these again repulsed in Nebbio. The Corsican troops were commanded by Pasquale Paoli and his brother Clemens. As Pasquale Paoli was undoubtedly one of the noblest and wisest men of his time,  @his brother one of the strangest and most romantic of characters. Pasquale, with the clear blue eye, the fine brow, and gentle dignity of carriage, was at once the statesman, the general, and the philanthropist. He was the most unselfish and the most upright of men benevolence, simplicity, and patriotism endeared him justly to his own country, whilst his talents and his breadth of mind made his friendship valued by the great men of all countries. Frederick the Great, @Alfieri, and Dr. Johnson may be named amongst their number. Clemens was of a different character. With perhaps less breadth of intellect, and less diplomatic power, he was gifted with a passionate depth of nature that could scarcely have existed in less troublous times. Having for many years served as a soldier -first at Naples, and then amongst his own people-he afterwards added the profession of a monk to his military occupations. Entering the convent of Morosaglia, he @emerged from it only to fight his country's battles, with a courage and a skill that seemed  with enthusiasm, at once for his religion and his country's cause, he spent the night in prayer, and the day in deeds of unheard-of prowess. His success was won@derful his spirit never failed, nor was his hope quenched and he constantly rescued his brother from difficulty and danger, gain@ing many a brilliant action over the foe. He was said to be a dead shot, and to have an eagle eye, and instant judgment in battle but in daily life to be gentle, grave, and melancholy. The French, not content with their over@whelming forces, essayed the corruption of some of the national leaders by gold and by fair promises, and managed to sow dis@trust amongst the Corsican generals. Meanwhile, the country was being de@stroyed, and the troops becoming exhausted and none but Clemens Paoli could now believe in the ultimate success of the Corsicans. The battle of Ponte Nuovo, on the 9t@h of May, 1769, at once and for ever annihilated the Corsican cause, and lost the brave islanders their  this victory, the French rapidly gained possession of the whole island, and shortly afterwards the struggle was abandoned. Paoli foresaw the uselessness of protracting a bloody and hopeless con@test and, preferring the possible sneers of a few to the ruin of his beloved country, left Corsica with most of his generals for the continent. In the same year, 1769, Napoleon Buona@parte was born in the house out of the Place du Marché at Ajaccio. I was born, he said himself in a letter to Paoli, the year my country died. For some years exiled Corsicans of note endeavoured to resume the struggle, land@ing from the continent here and there on the shores of their own country but none of these efforts were successful, and Mar@beouf, who succeeded Count de Vaux as governor of the island, did much, by his wise and benevolent rule, to reconcile the people to their new masters, and to promote the prosperity of Corsica. He died in 1786 and shortly afterwards the Revolution drew the two nations@ into relations which were at first friendly, and finally enthusiastic so that, in the year 1789, Corsica, by her own desire, was incorporated in the new consti@tution of the French republic. Clemens Paoli had remained in Italy but, for twenty years, Pasquale had now eaten the bread of exile in London, when he was invited by his own people and by the French National Assembly to return to Corsica. Made much of on his way through Paris by Robespierre and the leaders of the people, at Marseilles Paoli was welcomed by a Corsican deputation headed by young Na@poleon Buonaparte and his brother Joseph. Reaching his own island, he became President of the Assembly and General of the National Guard, but soon roused French suspicion in these capacities. Paoli was no bonnet-rouge or regicide, and sympathizing, as he did, with the French republican constitution, he hated the crimes and extravagances of the French communists. This was soon discovered, and a report being promulgated that  to alienate his country from France, he was summoned before a court of inquiry. The result was party strife in every direction. The main body of Corsicans refused to consider their countryman guilty of high treason, whilst a few sided with France, and fighting soon broke out. Paoli requested the assistance of the English, offering to place the island under their protection. Admirals Hood and Nelson proceeded to Corsica, where they succeeded in completely routing the republicans, and in making themselves masters of the island. After a good deal of misunderstanding, and some juggling on the part of the English, the Corsicans consented to be governed by a vice-royalty under Great Britain. The whole island expected Paoli would be viceroy instead of which, he was recalled in his old age from the country for which he had spent his whole life, and a stranger sent out in his place to govern his native land. Clemens, more happy, had  years of monastic life at Vallombrosa, in Tuscany-to die in @his own country, and had closed his weary eyes in his native village of Morosaglia but Pasquale came back, a saddened and humiliated man, to England, dying in hopeless exile, after the gleam of hope had once more illumined his path. The bones of the last great patriot of Corsica lie in St. Pancras churchyard. The British government was not success@ful. Sir Gilbert Elliot afterwards Lord Minto was ignorant of the country he had to deal with, and deficient in tact. On one occasion, noticing the dirty con@dition of the streets leading to the citadel of Bastia, he ordered out a party of Corsican soldiery, to sweep them clean. When the men found out for what purpose they had been assembled, they w@ere exceed@ingly indignant. Had the officer insisted, there would have been a mutiny. Throw@ing down the shovels and brushes, they dispersed angrily, remarking that they had enlisted for soldiers, and not for scavengers. On another occasion, when the viceroy was paying his first visit to Ajaccio, a  given in @his honour by the inhabitants. A bust of Paoli adorned the hall seeing @which, the viceroy's aide-de-camp flung it down, exclaiming, What business has this old charlatan here ! The bust was thrown into a closet and broken to pieces and when complaint was made to Sir Gilbert, he refused to interfere, or to inflict any punishment on his aide-de-camp. By 1796, Sir Gilbert had alienated all the Corsicans, and quarrelled with most of the English in Corsica. And in the month of November, Napoleon Buonaparte, just victorious in Italy, found the sympathies of his country all on his side when he des@patched a force to the island under two of his generals. The English, on their part, already half-tired of their bargain, relinquished the @country after the faintest resistance and once more Corsica found herself united to France, through the means of her own compatriot. From that time to this the country has remained a province of France and now by degrees the national peculiaritiesi away, and French words, French thought, and French manners are slowly superseding the strong national charac@teristics of the warlike and singular people living on this little island, which was for so long the hunting ground of richer and more powerful, but less noble nations. THE END. 
 still more, later flowers for the bees, Until they think warm days will never cease For Summer has o'erbrimmed their clammy cells. Who hath not seen thee oft amid thy store ? Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find Thee sitting careless on a granary floor, Thy hair soft-lifted by the winnowing wind Or on a half-reaped furrow sound asleep, Drowsed with the fume of poppies, while thy hook Spares the next swath and all its twined flowers And sometime like a gleaner thou dost keep Steady thy laden head across a brook Or by a cider-press, with patient look, Thou watchest the last oozings, hours by hours. Where are the songs of Spring ? Ay, where are they ? Think not of them,@-@thou hast thy music too, While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn Among the river-sallows, borne aloft Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn Hedge-crickets sing and now with treble soft The redbreast whistles from a garden-croft, And gathering swallows twitter in the skies. -@Keats. CCCLI. TO A SKYLARK. HAIL to thee, blithe spirit@! Bird thou never wert, That from heaven, or near it, Pourest thy full heart In profuse strains of unpremeditated ar
SECT. III. A PARAPHRASE FROM SENECA. 227  Shall be our pastime and our theme But then@-@should you not deign to come, You make all this a flattering dream. -@Cotton. CLXXXVII. A PARAPHRASE FROM SENECA. LET him that will, ascend the tottering seat Of courtly grandeur, and become as great As are his mounting wishes as for me, Let sweet repose and rest my portion be Give me some mean obscure recess, a sphere Out of the road of business, or the fear Of falling lower where I sweetly may Myself and dear retirement still enjoy Let not my life or name be known unto The grandees of the time, tost to and fro By censures or applause but let my age Slide gently by not overthwart the stage Of public action unheard, unseen, And unconcerned, as if I ne'er had been. And thus, while I shall pass my silent days In shady privacy, free from the noise And bustles of the mad world, then shall I A good old innocent plebeian die. Death is a mere surprise, a ver@y snare To him that makes it his life's greatest care To be a public pageant known to all, But unacquainted with himself doth fail. -Hale. From a chorus in the Thyestcs of Seneca the last lines are -' Illi mors gravis incubat, Qui notus nimis omnibus Ignotus moritur sibi@
 II. 1726-1744 . CCXVI. A SNOW SCENE. THE keener tempests come and fuming dun From all the livid east, or piercing north, Thick clouds ascend@-@in whose capacious womb A vapoury deluge lies, to snow congealed. Heavy the ' roll their fleecy world along And the sky saddens with the gathered storm. Through the hushed air the whitening shower descends, At first thin wavering till at last the flakes Fall broad, and wide, and fast, dimming the day With a continual flow. The cherished fields Put on their winter robe of purest white, 'Tis brightness all, save where the new snow melts Along the mazy current. Low the woods Bow their hoar head and, ere the languid sun Faint from the west emits his evening ray, Earth's universal face, deep-hid and chill, Is one wild dazzling waste, that buries wide The works of man. Drooping the labourer-ox Stands covered o'er with snow, and then demands The fruit of all his toil. The fowls of heaven, Tamed by the cruel season, crowd around The winnowing store, and claim the little boon Which Providence assigns them. One alone, The redbreast, sacred to the household gods, Wisely regardful of the embroiling sky, In joyless fields and thorn @-thickets leaves His shivering mates, and pays to trusted m
 happy, happy pair ! None but the brave, None but the brave, None but the brave deserves the fair. 2. Timotheus, placed on high Amid the tuneful choir, With flying fingers touched the lyre The trembling notes ascend the sky, And heavenly joys inspire. The song began from Jove, Who left his blissful seats above,@-Such is the power of mighty love ! A dragon's fiery form belied the god Sublime on radiant spires he rode, When he to fair Olympia prest, And while he sought her snowy breast Then round her slender waist he curle@@@@@@d@ And stamped an image of himself, a sovereign of the world The listening crowd admire the lofty sound A present deity, they shout around. A present deity, the vaulted roofs rebound. With ravished ears The monarch hears, Assumes the god, Affects to nod, And seems to shake the spheres. 3. The praise of Bacchus then the sweet musician sung Of Bacchus ever fair and ever young The jolly god in triumph comes Sound the trumpets beat the drums ! Flushed with a purple grace He shows his honest fac
 God sent an aungell to the heremyte to shewe hym the penaunce that he sholde gyue to Robert for his synnes. THE heremyte being thus a slepe, ther cam to hym an aungell, saynge to hym in this wyse Holy fader, here and take hede of the message that God com@maundeth the yf that Robert wyll be shryven of his synnes, he must kepe and counterfete the wayes of a fole, and be as he were dombe and he may ete no maner of mete, but that he can take it from the dogges and in this wyse, without spekynge, and counterfetynge the fole, and no thynge etynge but what he can take from the dogges, must he be tyll tyme that it please God to shewe hym that his synne be forgyuen and with this vycyon the heremyte awoke out of his slepe, and began to remembre hymselfe of this that sayd is, and thanked our Lorde of his message done to hym. And whan the day began to apere, the heremyte called Robert unto hym, with fare and comfortable wordes saynge to him, My frende, come hether to me and incontynent Robert came to hym with grete deuocyon, hym con-fessynge. And whan Robert had shryuen him, the heremyte sayd thus unto hym Sone, I thought and aduysed me of the penance that ye shall haue, to get remyssyon of your synnes, in whiche ye gretly offended ayenst God, that is to wete ye must counterfayte and playe the fole and ye may ete no mete but that ye can take it from the dogges whan men gyue them ough
 on vengeance for my ruin, And for England@-@shamed in me.' -@Glover. CCXXIV. RULE BRITANNIA. WHEN Britain first, at Heaven's command, Arose from out the azure main, This was the charter of her land, And guardian angels sung the strain -Rule Britannia ! Britannia rules the waves ! Britons never shall be slaves ! The nations not so blest as thee Must in their turn to tyrants fall Whilst thou shalt flourish, great and free, The dread and envy of them all. Still more majestic shalt thou rise, More dreadful from each foreign stroke As the loud blast that tears the skies Serves but to root thy native oak. Thee haughty tyrants ne'er shall tame All their attempts to bend thee down Will but arouse thy generous flame, And work their woe and thy renown. To thee belongs the rural reign Thy cities shall with commerce shine All thine shall be the subject main, And every shore it circles thine ! The Muses, still with Freedom found, Shall to thy happy coast repair Blest Isle, with matchless beauty crowned, And manly hearts to guard the fair -Rule Britannia ! Britannia rules the waves ! Britons never shall be slaves ! 1740. -@Tho@mson's Alfr
 TO THE NIGHT. O NIGHT, the ease of care, the pledge of pleasure, Desire's best mean, harvest of hearts affected, The seat of peace, the throne which is erected Of human life to be the quiet measure Be victor still of Phoebus' golden treasure, Who hath our sight with too much sight infected Whose light is cause we have our lives neglected, Turning all Nature's course to self displeasure. These stately stars in their now shining faces, With Sinless sleep, and Silence Wisdom's mother, Witness his wrong which by thy help is eased Thou art, therefore, of these our desert places The sure refuge by thee and by no other My soul is blest, sense joyed, and fortune raised. -@Sidney. XV. THE NIGHTINGALE. † THE nightingale, as soon as April bringeth Unto her rested sense a perfect waking, While late bare earth, proud of new clothing, springeth, Sings out her woes, a thorn her song-book making, And mournfully bewailing, Her throat in tunes expresseth What grief her breast oppresseth For Tereus' force on her chaste will prevailing. O Philomela fair, O take some gladness, That here is juster cause of plaintful sadness Thine earth now springs, mine fadeth Thy thorn without, my thorn my heart invadeth.  the Arcadia, first published 1590. † In the Arcadia, ed. 159
 down the islands, at New York as well as at Georgetown. In the winter months, between November and March, the captain may be said, meteorologically speaking, to have a lively time of it. The tempera-ture of Demerara remains at summer heat, it is true it is the eccen-tricity of the climate of New York that causes all his trouble and up-sets all his weatherwise theories. How is a man, even a far-seeing, judgematical mariner like our gallant captain, to keep run of the read-ings of a thermometer that varies 100° F. during a passage no longer than from Sandy Hook to Fastnet Rock ? How, indeed ? And yet that is precisely what the Barracouta's thermometer does, on many of her voyages, going or coming, between her dock on the East River and her wharf on the Demerara. It is no exaggeration to say that the captain's winter experience is fairly illustrated as follows His friends who bid him good-by in New York wish him bon voyage over a piping-hot toddy, warn him to button up pea-jacket, great-coat, and ulster he will need all three, at one and the same time, out at sea beyond the Hook , they advise him to keep out of the draught, go to bed early, and so get rid of the cold he caught when standing on the bridge, as he piloted the Barracouta into New York Harbor. In two weeks from that time his friends who welcome him at the George-town Club invite him to take an iced swizzle, give him a fan, place a chair for him by the window, tell him to unbutton his waistcoat, keep out of the sun, put witch-hazel on his sun-blisters, take a cold shower-bath, leave his windows and doors open at night, to the end that he may recover from the evil effects of standing in the sun on the bridge while piloting the Barracouta into Demerara River. So it goes, or rather so he goes, from New York to Demerara, from ten degrees below zero in the sun to ninety-five above in the shade, from chilblains to sunstroke, ulster to duster, from bare and leafless trees, frozen and lifeless meadows, to waving groves of palm and ripening cane-pieces-down to South America with fifteen thousand barrels of flour, up to North America with one thousand five hundred hogsheads of sugar. After a dainty breakfast the Doctor and I went each his own wa
 want that he now sustained, made him to grow desperate and regardlesse both of his soule and bodies estate which gave the devill occasion to worke upon his weaknesse in this maner following. On a time, hee being alone full of griefe and care, griefe for his folies past, and care how to get a poore living for the remainder of his dayes the Devill came to him and asked him what hee wanted hee came not in a shape terrible, but like an old penny-father. This gentleman was amazed at his sodaine presence, but hearing him demand of his wants, hee tooke to him cou-rage and said I want all things, I want money to buy my apparell, money to buy mee meat, money to redeeme my land and money to pay my debts can or will you helpe mee in this misery ? I will answered the Devill, on some conditions helpe you to money for to supply all these wants and that sodainly. On any condition, said the Gentleman, helpe mee, and I sweare for to per-forate them I take no oathes answered the Devill I must have bonds, if you will doe so, meet mee by the woods side to morrow morning, and there I will have the moneys ready I will said the gentleman for hee poore man was glad of it on any conditions, as he said before. The next day hee went to the wood where the Devill had promised to meet him long had he not been there, but he beheld the Devil comming, and after him two other like servingmen with bagges of money this reioyced the poore gentlemans heart to thinke that hee should once again live like a man. The Devill commi
 shall haue in your purse but to goe with you my selfe, you see my businesse will not permit me. Husband, said she, I accept your gentle offer, and it may be I shall intreat my gossip Sutton to goe along with me. I shall be glad qd. her husband, prepare your selfe when you will. When she had obtained this licence, she sent her man Welsell to Salisbury, to know of good-wife Sutton if shee would keepe her company to London. Suttons wife being as willing to goe, as she w@as to request, neuer rested till she had gotten leaue of her husband the which when she had obtained, casting in her mind their pleasure would bee small, being but they twaine thereupon the wily woman sent letters by collericke Crabbe her man, both to Grayes wife, and Fitzallens wife, that they would meet them at Reading, who liking well of the match, consented, and did so prouide, that they met according to promise at Reading, and from thence with Coles wife they went all together, with each of them a man to London, each one taking vp their lodging with a seuerall friend. When the Merchants of London vnderstood they were in towne, they inuited them euery day home to their owne houses, where they had delicate good cheere and when they went abroad to see the commodities of the City, the Merchants wiues euer bore them company, being attired most dainty and fine which when the Clothiers wiues did see, it grieued their hearts they had not the lik
 bear unequivocal marks of being the chil-dren of one mother, though habited in the costume of the various lands in which they chanced to have been born, an appearance of having been transmit-ted from one age and country to another, while in reality they have only a common origin, in the feelings with which the natural facts on which they are founded have been viewed, and the garb in which they have been clothed, being the result of some unchangeable tendency in the human intel-lect, whether at Indus or the Pole. A philosophical spirit of inquiry is however abroad, and much elucidation of this interesting topic may be expected from it the investigations of Mr. Douce in his Illustrations of Shakspeare, the learned and amusing articles of Mr. Palgrave in the Quarterly Review Mr. Dunlop's ingenious History of Fiction the preface to the new edi-tion of Warton's History of English Poetry Mr. Crofton Croker's Fairy Legends of Ireland, and the Fairy Mythology of Mr. Keightley are valu-able contributions towards the History of Ancient Romance much however remains to be accom-plished, and it is hoped that the shafts of ridicule which may occasionally be levelled at the pursui
 before he fell asleepe, or was warme in his bed, one came riding thorow the Towne and cryed piteously, that London was all on a fire, and that it had burned downe Thomas Beckets house in West-cheape, and a great number, more in the same street, and yet quoth he the fire is not quencht. Which tidings when Thomas of Reading heard, he was very sorrowfull, for of the same Becket that day he had receiued a great peece of money, and had left in his house many of his writings, and some that appertained to the King also therefore there was no nay but he would ride backe againe to London presently, to see how the matter stood thereupon making himselfe ready, departed. This crosse fortune caused his Oast to frowne, neuertheless the next time qd. he will pay for all. Notwithstanding God so wrought, that they were preuented the likewise, by reason of a great fray that hapned in the house betwixt a couple that fell out at dice, insomuch as the murderers themselues were in-forced to call him vp being a man in great authority, that he might set the house in quietnesse, out of the which by meanes of this quarrell, they doubted to lose many things. Another time when hee should haue beene laid in the same place, he fell so sicke, that he requested to haue some body to watch with him, whereby also they could not bring their vile purpose to passe. But hard it is to escape the ill fortunes whereunto a man is allotte
 3. ' Fill high the sparkling bowl, The rich repast prepare, Reft of a crown, he yet may share the feast Close by the regal chair Fell Thirst and Famine scowl A baleful smile upon their baffled guest. Heard ye the din of battle bra@y, Lance to lance, and horse to horse ? Long years of havoc urge their destined course, And thro' the kindred squadrons mow their way. Ye towers of Julius, London's lasting shame, With many a foul and midnight murder fed, Revere his consort's faith, his father's fame, And spare the meek usurper's holy head. Above, below, the rose of snow, Twined with her blushing foe, we spread The bristled boar in infant-gore Wallows beneath the thorny shade. Now, brothers, bending o'er the accursed loom, Stamp we our vengeance deep, and ratify his doom. III. 1. ' Edward, lo ! to sudden fate Weave we the woof. The thread is spun. Half of thy heart we consecrate. The web is wove. The work is done.  68. Edward the Black Prince, who died before his father. 71-76. Cf. the simile in the Merchant of Venice, from which this is borrowed ' How like a younker or a prodigal,' etc., ii. 6. 81. This refers to Richard II. having been starved to death. Lines 83 86 refer to the wars of the Roses. 87. Part of the Tower of London was said to have been built in the time of Julius Caesar. 89. Margaret of Anjou and Henry V. 93. Richard III., a silver boar being his badg
 the self-same song that found a path Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home, She stood in tears amid the alien corn The same that oft-times hath Charmed magic casements, opening on the foam Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn. Forlorn ! the very word is like a bell To toll me back from thee to my sole self! Adieu ! the Fancy cannot cheat so well As she is famed to do, deceiving elf! Adieu ! adieu ! thy plaintive anthem fades Past the near meadows, over the still stream. Up the hill-side and now 'tis buried deep In the next valley-glades Was it a vision, or a waking dream ? Fled is that music -@do I wake or sleep ? -@Keats. CCCLV. BRIGHT STAR. BRIGHT star ! would I were steadfast as thou art@-Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night, And watching, with eternal lids apart, Like Nature's patient, sleepless Eremite, The moving waters at their priest-like task Of pure ablution round earth's human shores. Or gazing on the new soft fallen mask Of snow upon the mountains and the moors@-No@-@yet still steadfast, still unchangeable, Pillowed upon my fair love's ripening breast, To feel for ever its soft fall and swell, Awake for ever in a sweet unrest, Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath, And so live ever, or else swoon to death. -@
 the Clothiers being aduertised, they made great preparation against his comming, because he had pro-mised to visit them all. And when his Grace came to Reading, he was enter-tained and receiued with great ioy and triumph Thomas Cole being the chiefe man of regard in all the Towne, the King honored his house with his Princely presence, where during the Kings abode, he, and his sonne, and Nobles were highly feasted. There the King beheld the great number of people, that was by that one man maintained in worke, whose hearty affection and loue toward his Maiestie did well appeare, as well by their outward countenances, as their gifts presented vnto him. But of Cole him-selfe the King was so well perswaded, that he committed such trust in him, and put him in great authority in the Towne. Furthermore the King said, That for the loue which those people bore him liuing, that hee would lay his bones among them when he was dead. For I know not, said he, where they may be better be-stowed, till the blessed day of resurrection, then among these my friends which are like to be happy partakers of the same. Whereupon his Maiestie caused there to be builded a most goodly and famous Abbey in which he might shew his deuotion to God, by increasing his seruice, and leaue example to other his successors to doe the like. Likewise within the towne he after builded a faire and goodly Castle, in the which he often kept his Cour
 in the batayll. The emperour understandynge the mynde and intent of his doughter, he was angry and sayd to her maystres Ye sholde teche and lerne my doughter wysdome, and no folye ne peuysnesse where-withall I am myscontent. The doughter seynge that her@fader was angry, pointed no more, notwithstandynge she wyst well that it was trewe that she poynted and mente, for in as moche as she had sene the aungell brynge hym the hors and harneys. This remayned in this wyse a certayne season, and after that the Sarasyns were put to flyght by the Romaynes, as sayd is, yet came the senesshall agayne with moche more company, and layde syege to Rome and the Romaynes sholde haue lost the felde ayen, had not the knyghte on the whyte horse bene, to whome God sent hors and harnays as he had done before. To make shorte tale, this knyght dyde so moche that the Sarasyns were put to flyght, and the Romaynes won the felde and vyctorye as they dyde before. There were some of the emperour's meyny layde wayte where this knyght became, but as soone as the batayle was done he was gone no man coude tell were he was become, saue only the emperour's doughter whiche se hym at the fountayne agayne un-armynge hym. How Robert gatte the thyrde batayle as he dyde before which she kepte secrete. IN a short tyme after this the senesshall tourned agayne with a moche greter power than he had before, a
 THE SLEEP. OF all the thoughts of God that are Borne inward into souls afar, Along the Psalmist's music deep, Now tell me if that any is, For gift or grace, surpassing this ' He giveth His belovèd, sleep ' ? What would we give to our beloved ? The hero's heart, to be unmoved The poet's star-tuned harp to sweep The patriot's voice, to teach and rouse The monarch's crown, to light the brows ? ' He giveth His belovèd, sleep '. What do we give to our beloved ? A little faith, all undisproved A little dust to overweep And bitter memories to make The whole earth blasted for our sake ' He giveth His belovèd, sleep '. ' Sleep soft, beloved ! ' we sometimes say, But have no tune to charm away Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep But never doleful dream again Shall break the happy slumber when ' He giveth His belovèd, sleep@'. O earth, so full of dreary noises ! O men, with wailing in your voices ! O delvèd gold, the wailers' heap ! O strife, O curse, that o'er it fall ! God strikes a silence through you all, And ' giveth His belovèd, sleep 
  239. London -@H. Such, Printer and Publisher, 177, late 123 , Union  DAMSEL possessed of great beauty, She stood by her own father's gate, The gallant hussars' were on duty, To view them this maiden did wait Their horses were capering and prancing, Their accoutrements shone like a star, From the plain they were nearest advancing, She espied her young gallant Hussar. Their pellices were slung on their shoulders, So careless they seemed for to ride, So warlike appeared these young soldiers, With glittering swords by their sides. To the barrracks next morning so early, This damsel she went in her car, Because she loved him sincerely@-Young Edward the gallant Hussar. It was there she conversed with her soldier, These words he was heard for to say, Said Jane, ' I've heard none more bolder, To follow my laddie awa'.' ' O fie @!' said young Edward, ' be steady, And think of the dangers of war, When the trumpet sounds I must be ready, So wed not your gallant Hussar.' For twelve months on bread and cold water, My parents confined me for you, O hard-hearted friends to their daughter, Whose heart it is loyal and true Unless they confine me for ever, Or banish me from you afar, I will follow my soldier so clever, To wed with my gallant Hussar. Said Edward, ' Your friends you must mind them, Or else you are for ever undone, They will leave you no portion behind them, So pray do @my company shun.' She said, ' If you will be true-hearted, I have gold of my uncle in store. From this time no more we'll be parted, I will wed with my gallant Hussar.@' As he gazed on this beautiful creature, The tears they did fall from each eye, I will wed with this beautiful creature, And forsake ornel war he did cry. So now they're united together, Friends think of them now they're afar, Crying, ' Heaven bless them now and for ever, Young Jane and her gallant Hussar.'a maidens' fair, attend unto my song, While I relate a story that does to love belong, It's of a blooming damsel walking thro' the fields so gay, And there she met her lover, who thus to her did say. Where are you going, young Nancy, this morning so gay ? Or why do you walk here alone ? come tell me I pray, I'm going to yon river's side that's just below the hill, To gather the sweet flowers and watch the fishes swim. Be not in haste dear Nancy, this young man he did say, And I will bear you company and guard you by the way For I live on yonder river's side, where fishes they do swim, There you may gather flowers that grow about the brim. Kind sir, you must excuse me, this maiden did reply, I ne'er will walk with any man until the day I die, I have a sweetheart of my own and he my heart has won, He lives in yonder cottage, a wealthy farmer's son. O then replies this young man come tell your lover's n@@@@@@ame, Though I'm in my tarry trowsers, perhaps I know the same, She says his name is William from that I ne'er will run, A ring he broke at parting, the wealthy farmer's son. The ring then from his pocket he instantly drew. Saying, Nancy, here's the parting gift, one half I left with you, It's I have been press'd to sea and many a battle won, Yet still your heart could ne'er depart from me, the farmer's son. O when she heard him say these words, it put her in  tears came trickling down her cheeks, from  your grief, the young man cries, the battle you have won, won, For Hymen's chains shall bind us, you and the farmer's son. To church then this couple went, and married were with sp@@@@@@@@eed, All the village bells did ring, and the girls did  blessed the happy hour she in the fields did run, To seek for her true lover, the wealthy farmer's so
CHAPTER V. ANTIGUA. A Tropical Sunrise.-@Antigua.-@The Harbor of St. John's.@-General Description of the Island.-@A Derelict Bark.-@Scenes on Landing.-@A View from an Old Church-yard. -Lizards Great and Small.-@West Indian Entertainers.@-A Morning Drive. A SUNRISE the morning after we left St. Christopher, Antigua was in sight eight or ten miles to the east-ward directly ahead of the Barra@-couta. At that distance the island appears barren and desolate, but as we approached the land we disco@v-ered many dwellings, and a wide expanse of cultivated land rising in gentle undulations backward from an almost unbroken rampart of cliffs that confront the sea. Here and there, at widely separated inter-vals, the waves have battered breaches in this sea-wall through them entrance is gained to quiet anchorages. In a few places on the coast the meadows gradually slope downward to a shelving beach from which sandspits extend great distances into the ocean, rendering navi-gation dangerous to sailors who have not studied their island-charts. In these latitudes day comes unheralded by dawn, as night is un-preceded by the gloaming. The transition from darkness to sunlight is almost instantaneous. Light clouds drifting high overhead catch the first rays of the coming sun they glow and change from gray and brown to dull red, then brightening, gleam brilliant crimson or da
 form a succession of views of exceeding beauty and mag-nificence. '@The coasts of the island, for the most part bold and rocky, are here and there indented by deep bays. On the windward side, high ranges of cliffs, broken at intervals by ravines and valleys, rise precipi-tously from the water's edge@@@.@@@@ '@The European visitor is struck with the luxuriance of vegetation that everywhere meets his eye. Not only are the precipices fringed with trees and shrubs, but along the face of the cliffs are seen growing many different kinds of plants, and even trees are observed shooting, as it were, from the bare rock, and sending out their roots in all directions in search of rents and crevices, into which they drive for the purpose of finding nourishment. Wherever, indeed, the smallest portion of soil can collect, there some form of vegetable life is met with. '@The highest range of mountains runs in the centre of the island in the direction of north to south. From this, smaller ranges of mountains pass down to the coast on each side, being intersected by valleys and deep ravines, narrow and winding at first, but opening out toward the coast.  formation of the island is volcanic. The cliffs near the sea are chiefly composed of vast masses of conglomerate. In many places along the coast beds of coral are found lying on the conglomerate rock at a height of more than two hundred feet above the sea-level. There are many volcanic openings in different parts of the island. Around all of those that I have visited are found large accumula-tions of sulphur. This substance is met with in the greatest quan-tities at the southern extremity of the island, in a deep and confined valley, where there are several volcanic fissures. Near most of these openings, springs of hot water issue from crevices, and in the Roseau Valley they boil up in the bed of the river.r. '@From the mountainous nature of the country abundance of ra
 special wonder. Certainly, everything and everybody I beheld were strange enough to warrant such a confusion of localities in my mind. The cooly men wear turbans, or a kind of nightcap@- an old wife's mutch, the Scotch would call it@-@jackets, short trousers of white cotton cloth, and, except for blackness, their faces are characteristically European. Their features are the features of thin and emaciated Italians, Frenchmen, Englishmen@-@in a word, Caucasians. Some have full beards, others mustaches and imperials not a few wear mutton-chop, Dundreary, or coachman whiskers. If one were to seize at ran-dom the cadaverous, under-sized, light-in-weight, but respectable-look-ing men to be seen on Broadway, Piccadilly, Hue de Rivoli, or Unter den Linden, clothe them in short, unstarched, white trousers, monkey-jackets, and turbans, blacken the faces, hands, and feet of them, there would be little trouble in passing these Europeans off as an average lot of cooly men such as I saw in the Hindu quarters of San Fer-nando. The houses of these people are small and slightly built, and furnish-ing the best of them involves an insignificant expenditure there is no glass in the windows, there are no chimneys all cooking being done in the open air , no beds, tables, or chairs, the inmates sleep on the floor, eat the few morsels of their scanty meals while seated on their heels, cuddling around a few jugs and dishes of the rudest earthen-ware set in the middle of the room. I was much entertained and interested in watching a cooly man at work, squatting on his heels in the open door-way of a wrecked and dis-jointed shanty. He was bending over an earthen-@ware furnace, in size and shape resembling a top-hat, beside which there was a block of wood twelve or fifteen inches square, overlaid with a fragment of iron boiler-plate half an inch in thickness which served as an anvil, and a few rude tools these, with the flower-pot furnace, completed the outfit of a Hindu silver-smith, for of that craft was the object of my curiosity. The implements of this artificer's profession were ancient and worn, cumbersome and unwieldy nevertheless, he plied his tra
 invitation. What wonder, then, that I eagerly confessed my will-ingness, not to say longing, to set out at once, not only to the archipel-ago in question, but to any other part of the navigable sea or habitable land to which he might be good enough to ask me to bear him company. Nevertheless, as I made my confession it did not enter my brain to conceive that there was any probability of my going with him on a trip for which he had nearly completed all his preparations and I had made no preparation at all. In a word, I had as soon thought of setting out with him then and there as he of leaving me in charge of his patients during his proposed absence. It is the unexpected that happens. So it fell out that I sat down to dinner at four@-@bells, that day, hav-ing the Doctor for my vis-à-vis at the Captain's table in the cabin of the steamship Barracouta, bound, not, indeed, to the Back of Beyond but, in very truth, to the Cannibal Islands@-@the original and, mark you ! the first so-called Cannibal Islands which, as everybody ought to know, were discovered in the year 1493 by no less famous a navigator than Christoval Colon himself. It may well be imagined, I did not make haste slowly in my efforts to catch the steamer, which was to sail that day promptly at 2 P.M. In-deed ! so great was my hurry and excitement that I was half-way to Sandy Hook before I began to realize how I had set out on a voyage which, as it turned out, was to last five weeks to a day. In hot haste, therefore, I took my departure from home and from among my people, not in the manner of a man who was minded to go a-pleasuring, but after the fashion of one who meditates a flight into foreign parts con-veniently beyond the ken of extradition treatie
 frende come to me and shewe me your thyghe I wyll nedes se whan Robert herde themperour say these wordes he wyst well ynoughe wherfore he was comen to hym, but he lete hym as thoughe he had not understonden hym, and Robert dyde many madde conceytes to make the pope and themperour to laughe and forgate that they spoke of, but the pope spake to Robert, and coniured hym in the name of God that on the crosse dyed for our redempcyon, that yf it be Goddes wyll that thou haste spoken that thou speke now unto us, and than Robert rose up lyke a fole and gaue the pope his blessynge, and here withall Robert loked behynde hym and sawe the heremyte that set hym his penaunce, and as soone as the heremyte se Robert whiche he had longe sought, he cryed to hym with a loude voyce that every man myght here hym that were there My frende herken unto me, I knowe well that ye be Robert that men calle the deuyll, but now ye be in grace and conceyte with Almyghty God, and for that foule and hydeous name ye shall haue a fayre name, and be called the Seruaunte of God, ye be he that hath saued this lande from the Sarasyns, wherfore I praye you that ye serue and worshyp God as ye haue done hyderto, for oure Lorde sendeth me now to you commaundynge you to speke, and no more to counter-feyte the fole, for it is Goddes wyll and commaundement, for he hath forgyuen you all your synnes, for by caus ye haue made satysfacyon and full done your penaunce whan Robert herde this he fell lyghtely on his knees and lyfte up his handes towarde Heuen saynge thu
 HYMN TO ADVERSITY. DAUGHTER of Jove, relentless Power, Thou tamer of the human breast, Whose iron scourge and torturing hour The bad affright, afflict the best ! Bound in thy adamantine chain The proud are taught to taste of pain, And purple tyrants vainly groan With pangs unfelt before, unpitied and alone. When first thy sire to send on earth Virtue, his darling child, designed, To thee he gave the heavenly birth, And bade to form her infant mind. Stern rugged Nurse ! thy rigid lore With patience many a year she bore What sorrow was thou bad'st her know, And, from her own, she learned to melt at others' woe. Scared at thy frown terrific, fly Self-pleasing Folly's idle brood, Wild Laughter, Noise, and thoughtless Joy, And leave us leisure to be good. Light they disperse, and with them go The summer friend, the flattering foe By vain Prosperity received, To her they vow their truth, and are again believed. Wisdom, in sable garb arrayed, Immersed in rapturous thought profound, And Melancholy, silent maid With leaden eye, that loves the ground, In 1753 Dodsley published Designs by Mr. R. Bentley for Six Poems by Mr. T. Gray. These were the Ode on the Spring and Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat second edition , Eton Ode third edition , A Long Story and Hymn to Adversity first edition , and the Eleg
 in whose mossy cells, Sweetly-musing Quiet dwells Grongar, in whose silent shade, For the modest Muses made So oft I have, the evening still, At the fountain of a rill, Sat upon a flowery bed. With my hand beneath my head While strayed my eyes o'er Towy's flood, Over mead, and over wood, From house to house, from hill to hill, Till Contemplation had her fill. About his checkered sides I wind, And leave his brooks and meads behind, And groves, and grottos where I lay, And vistas shooting beams of day Wide and wider spreads the vale, As circles on a smooth canal The mountains round, unhappy fate, Sooner or later, of all height, Withdraw their summits from the skies, And lessen as the others rise Still the prospect wider spreads, Adds a thousand woods and meads Still it widens, widens still, And sinks the newly risen hill. Now I gain the mountain's brow, What a landscape lies below! No clouds, no vapours intervene, But the gay, the open scene Does the face of nature show, In all the hues of heaven's bow And, swelling to embrace the light, Spreads around beneath the sigh
CHAPTER XIII. WALKS IN BRIDGETOWN. A Favored People.@-@Statistics of Population.@-@Sugar, Molasses, Rum.@-@Street Scenes in Bridgetown.-@The Ice Establishment.@-@War News.@-@New Old Friends.-@Bar-badian Sociability.@-@A Well-ordered Hostelry. IT was Abraham Lincoln who quaintly said to one who spoke slight-ingly of the mass of his fellow-citizens, deprecating the respect that great man paid to what the speaker called popular clamor, The Lord must love the common people, he made so many of them. By this same token the Barbadians are a highly favored nation, there is such a multitude of them in fact, when the limited area of their snug island is taken into consideration, their number is phe-nomenal. How so many human beings can find room to live and have their being, to say nothing of moving about, on so small a subdi-vision of this wide world, is a problem that cannot fail to awaken the astonishment of even the most confirmed and hardened statistician. It is as surprising as it is undoubtedly true, that Barbados is the most densely populated region on the earth. This island, with an area of 106,000 acres, contains a population of over 175,000 souls that is to say, an average of no less than one thousand and fifty-four persons to each of its one hundred and sixty-six square miles of terri-tory. The Chinese province of Kiang-su, which I at one time igno-rantly imagined to be the most uncomfortably crowded district under the sun, contains but eight hundred and fifty moon-eyed Celestials to the square mile, while East Flanders, in Belgium, the most thickly populated province in Europe, can boast of only seven hundred a
 T @HERE were three jovial tradesmen, And they all sat down to drinking, For they were a jovial crew They sat themselves down to be merry, And they called for a bottle of sherry, You're welcome as the hills, says Nelly, While Joan's ale is new, brave boys, While Joan's ale is new. The first that came in was a soldier, With his firelock over his shoulder, Sure no one could be bolder, And a long broadsword he drew He swore he would fight for England's ground, Before the nation should be run down, He boldly drank their healths all round, While Joan's ale was new. The next that came in was a hatter, Sure no one could be blacker@@@@@, And he began to chatter  the jovial crew@@@@ He threw his hat upon the  swore every man should spend his crown, And boldly drank their healths all round, While Joan's ale was new. The next that came in was a dyer, And he sat himself down by the fire, For it was his heart's desire, To drink with the jovial crew He told the landlord to his face, The chimney corner should be his place, And there he'd sit and dye his face, While Joan's ale was new. The next that came in was a tinker, And he was no small beer drinker, And he was no small beer drinker, Among the jovial crew For his brass nails were made of metal, And he swore he'd go and mend a kettle, Good heart, how his hammer and nails did rattle, While Joan's ale was new. The next that came in was a tailor, With his bodkin, shears, and thimble, @@He swore he would be nimble, Among the jovial crew They sat and they called for ale and stout, Till the poor tailor was almost broke, And was forced to go and pawn his coat, While Joan's ale was new. The next that came in was a ragman, With his rag bag over his shoulder, S@ure no one could be bolder, A@@@@mong the jovial crewrew They sat and called for pots and glasses,@@ Until they were all as drunk as asses, @@@They burnt the old ragman's bag to show@@@@ That Joan's ale was new. T@@@@HE @ Timothy White was a Cheesemonger's boy, Not quite t@urned twenty@-@a Hobity Hoy In love with Maria he F. E. L fell, And what happened these lovers I'll T. E. L. tell. Chorus.@-@Richoo ral, he was a good looking young swell. Now no pride had Maria, tho' handsome was she, But his master's proud daughter was as proud as could be With jealous rage, both their loves she was bent To C. I. R. C. U. M. V. E. N. T. vent. Chor@us.@-@Ri choo ral, on mischief that girl was bent. So to fair Maria a letter she writ, Who, when she had read it, went off in a fit 'Twas to say that another on the S. L. Y. sly, Was courted by T. I. M. O. T. H. Y. Chorus.@-@Ri choo ral ly c@hoo, with a cast in her eye. Then Maria went mad, in a book Muslin Gown, With her Black Raven tresses a falling all down, While Timothy cried, I. S. H. A. L. shall, Bc revenged on that Cheesemonger's G. A. L. gal. Chorus.@-@Ri choo ral ly choo, which her name it was Sal. Then he seized the big cheese-knife and rushed up stairs, And the cheesemonger's daughter he took unawares I've come for your life, so it's no use to pray, For crazy you've driven poor M. A. R. I. A. Chorus.@-@Ri choo ral ly choo, she could not run away. Then the Cheesemonger's Daughter dropp'd down on the floor, And a '@drop@' brought Maria to her senses once more So at last R. E. C. O. N. C. I. L. E. D., At the Church they were M. A. R. R. I. E. D. Chorus.-@Ri choo ral by Cupid U. N. I. T. E. D. MORAL. All young Gals now T. A. K. E. C. A. R. E., With other Gals' Beaus don't make F. R. Double E. free, Or you'll be in Hot Double U. A. T. E. R., Like the Cheesemonger's D. A. U. G. H. T. E. R. Chorus.@-@Ri choo ral, my song is O. V. E. 
 in power than use and keep thy friend Under thy own life's key be checked for silence, But never taxed for speech. What heaven more will, That thee may furnish, and my prayers pluck down, Fall on thy head ! Farewell ! 1602. -@All's Well That Ends Well, i. 1. LXXVI. A FATHER'S ADVICE. YET here, Laertes ! Aboard, aboard, for shame ! The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail, And you are stayed for. There, my blessing with you. And these few precepts in thy memory See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue, Nor any unproportioned thought his act. Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar. The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of each new-hatched, unfledged comrade. Beware Of entrance to a quarrel but, being in, Bear it that the opposed may beware of thee. Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, But not expressed in fancy rich, not gaudy For the apparel oft proclaims the man. Neither a borrower nor a lender be For loan oft loses both itself and friend, And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry. This above all -@To thine own self be true And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man. Farewell ! my blessing season this in thee ! 1602. -Hamlet, i.
 what is due to hatred ? I am in my heart per-swaded, that had my poore Margaret thought it would haue bred your Highnes displeasure, she would neuer haue bought his loue so deare. Had your Grrace made it known to your Commons, that it was vnlawful for any to marry the Duke your brother, who would haue at-tempted such an action if she had wilfully disobeyed your Graces commandement, she might haue been thought worthy of death but seeing ignorantly she offended, I beseech your Grace to recall the sentence, and let me still enioy my seruant, for neuer will I rise, till your Maiestie haue granted my petition. His Highnes, who was of nature mercifull, beholding the womans abundant teares, tooke pitie on her, and granted her suite which being obtained, shee went home in all haste possible. And from thence, shee with her husband taking their iourney to Cardiffe castle, they came at that very instant when the Maiden was led to-ward her death, who went in most ioyfull sort to the same, saying, that they were not worthy to be accounted true louers, that were not willing to die for loue and so with a smiling countenance she passed on, as if she had eaten Apium Risus, which causeth a man to die laughing but her Dame Gray seeing her, fell about her necke, and with many kisses imbraced her, saying, Thou shalt not die my wench, but goe home with me and for thy deliuery, behold here the Kings letters and with that she deliuered them vp to the governour of the Castle who reading them found these words writte
 which here, for the wives love of Bathe, Whos lif and al hire secte God maintene In high maistrie, and elles were it scathe, I wol with lusty herte fresshe and grene, Say you a song to gladen you, I wene And let us stint of ernestful matere. Herkneth my song, that saith in this manere. Grisilde is ded, and eke hire patience, And both at ones buried in Itaille For which I crie in open audience, No wedded man so hardly be to assaille His wives patience, in trust to find Grisildes, for in certain he shal faille. O noble wives, ful of high prudence, Let non humilitee your tonges naile Ne let no clerk have cause or diligence To write of you a storie of swiche mervaille, As of Grisildis patient and kinde, Lest Chichevache you swalwe in hire entraille. Folweth ecco, that holdeth no silence, But ever answereth at the countretaille Beth not bedaffed for your innocence, But sharply taketh on you the governaille Emprenteth wel this lesson in your minde, For comun profit, sith it may availle. Ye archewives, stondeth ay at defence, Sin ye be strong, as is a gret camaille, Ne suffreth not, that men do you offence. And sclendre wives, feble as in bataille, Beth egre as is a tigre yond in Inde Ay clappeth as a mill, I you counsaill
 year to year the battles, sieges, fortunes, That I have passed. I ran it through, even from my boyish days, To the very moment that he bade me tell it. Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances, Of moving accidents by flood and field Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach Of being taken by the insolent foe, And sold to slavery of my redemption thence, And portance in my travel's history Wherein of antres vast, and desert idle, Rough quarries, rocks, and hills, whose heads touch heaven, It was my hint to speak -@such was the process -And of the cannibals that each other eat, The Anthropophagi, and men whose heads Do grow beneath their shoulders. These things to hear Would Desdemona seriouslv incline But still the house affairs would draw her thence W@hich ever as she could with haste despatch, She'd come again, and with a greedy ear Devour up my discourse which I observing, Took once a pliant hour, and found good means To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart, That I would all my pilgrimage dilate, Whereof by parcels she had something heard, But not intentively. I did consent And often did beguile her of her tears, When I did speak of some distressful stroke That my youth suffered. My story being done She gave me for my pains a world of sighs She swore,@-@In faith 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange 'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful She wished she had not heard it yet she wish
 IMITATION OF HORACE, SATIRES, ii. 6. I'VE often wished that I had clear For life six hundred pounds a year, A handsome house to lodge a friend, A river at my garden's end, A terrace-walk, and half a rood Of land, set out to plant a wood. Well, now I have all this and more, I ask not to increase my store But here a grievance seems to lie, All this is mine but till I die I can't but think 'twould sound more clever, To me and to my heirs for ever. If I ne'er got or lost a groat By any trick or any fault And if I pray by reason's rules, And not like forty other fools, As thus, Vouchsafe, oh gracious Maker, To grant me this and t' other acre Or, if it be thy will and pleasure, Direct my plough to find a treasure ! But only what my station fits, And to be kept at my right wits Preserve, Almighty Providence ! Just what you gave me, competence, And let me in these shades compose Something in verse as true as prose. Removed from all ambitious scene, Nor puffed by pride, nor sunk by spleen. -Swi
 for all the idea they got of its scenery or proportions, and so, without further delay, sought their sleeping-@places on the deck. Yes ! we Barracoutans slept on deck. Not because it was hot, un-comfortable, or stuffy down below, nor because we were deck-passen-gers each one of us had a state-room apiece at his or her disposal, a roomy, clean, well-ventilated state-room for in respect of her cabin accommodations the Barracouta is a model ship, being also an easy, although somewhat persistent roller, she is a good ship to pass the night in. We slept on deck because we were out for a good time, as an English passenger put it, and did as we jolly well liked. We found sleeping on deck had very much of the flavor, and all the attractions, of camping out, with none of the disadvantages of damp beds or busy insects there was a feeling of freedom about it, a delicious sense of abundant ventilation and elbow-room it was also gratifying to our personal pride, for we flattered ourselves that we were granted this, among other special privileges, because we happened, luckily, to be friends of the captain@-@having by the same token, also, a right to sit at his table, to smoke in the purser's cabin, or to be on terms of personal intimacy with the man at the wheel, if we saw fit to cultivate his acquaintance all rules and regulations of the company to the contrary notwithstanding. In the case of the lady passengers who occupied their reservation upstairs nightly , they looked upon sleeping in the Social Hall as a guarantee and confirmation of their right to have luncheons served on deck between meals and to ask the cap-tain difficult questions in navigation. They availed themselves of this their privilege, not to say undoubted right, with an unswerving deter-mination@-@were not to be persuaded that their state-rooms were habita-ble nor would they permit themselves to be drawn into unnecessary argument about the matter, but maintained a perfectly unanswerable silence that in the end gained them the victory. At four bells, even-ing, elles y étaient, and until morning elles y restaient. If, as some-times happened, a heedless male passenger, on deck after ten o'clock, discovered that he had forgotten some indispensable article of person
 only merit constant pay receives, Is blest in what it takes, and what it gives The joy unequalled if its end it gain, And if it lose, attended with no pain Without satiety, though e'er so blessed, And but more relished as the more distressed The broadest mirth unfeeling Folly wears, Less pleasing far than Virtue's very tears Good, from each object, from each place acquired, For ever exercised, yet never tired Never elated, while one man's oppressed Never dejected, while another's blessed And where no wants, no wishes can remain, Since but to wish more virtue, is to gain. -@Ep. iv. 1732. -@Pope. CCXX. FROM VERSES ON THE DEATH OF DR. SWIFT. † PERHAPS I may allow the Dean Had too much satire in his vein And seemed determined not to starve it, Because no age could more deserve it. Yet malice never was his aim He lashed the vice, but spared the name No individual could resent, Where thousands equally were meant His satire points at no defect, But what all mortals may correct For he abhorred that senseless tribe Who call it humour when they gibe He spared a hump, or crooked nose, ' The most complete, concise, and lofty expression of moral temper existing in English words.'@-@Ruskin. † Written by Swift in 1731 published surreptitiously and imper-fectly 202 lines in 1733, published in 1739 375 lines , and published by Swift in Dublin, 1739 545 lines
 justyce, as well ouer the ryche as ouer the poore, kepynge his lande in reste and in pease, and begote a chylde with her, and whiche he called Rycharde, whiche dyde afterwarde many noble actes and dedes of armes with grete Charlemayne kynge of Fraunce, for he dyde helpe hym for to gere and fortefye the Crysten fayth, and he made alwayes grete warre upon the Sarasyns. And he lyued in his lande in rest and pease, and was beloued of poore and ryche, and all his comente loued hym in lykewyse as Robert his fader was loued, for they lyued bothe deuoutly and in vertue, wherfore I praye God that we may so lyue in this lyfe we may optayne and come to euerlastynge lyfe. To the whiche brynge us he that bought us and al mankynde with his preecyous blode and bytter passyon. Amen. Thus endeth the lyfe of Robert the Deuyll, That was the seruaunt of our Lorde, And of his condycyons that was full euyll, Emprynted in London by Wynkyn de Worde. Here endeth the lyfe of the most feerfullest and unmercyful-lest and myscheuous Robert the Deuyll, whiche was afterwarde called the Seruaunt of our Lorde Jhesu Cryste. Emprynted in Flete-strete in the sygne of the sonne, by 
 -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and Publisher, 177, Union-street,  world is this, upon my life M@@@@en are a set of foolish elves, They all sing out they want a wife, When they can hardly help themselves Now I was once that way inclined, But women I've found out, oh, la ! Now tell me if you'll @be so kind, What men and women get married for. Fol de rol, c. A friend of mine the other day, Took unto himself a wif@e, But, oh dear me, I am sorry to say, They lead a very wretched life They had a row and sold their sticks, To get divorced they've gone to law, But she swears she'll stick to him like bricks, Well, what did they get married for ? @@Now suppose a good wife you have got,@@ But there is very few of those,@@ Yor money goes just like a shot, They're everlasting wanting clothes@@ And when they have got all they can,@@ And find they can't get any more, T@@@hey will say, ' Do you call yourself a man ? Well, what did you get married for ? @@The ladies also do complain, They cannot ever gad about,@@ They cannot even take a drain, Or their husband's sure to find them out. It's not at all that they're afraid@@ To take a drop of something raw, But if you wish to die an old maid, What the devil did you get married for@@@ ? It is not only clothes they want, @@But you of course must take them out@@ To see the cap and bonnet shops, 'Tis there they like to walk about Oh come, my dear, it's very cold, Come buy for me this nice new boa, And if you're cross and begin to scold, She'll say, What did you get married for ? So young men and women take my advice, A single life is far the best, For whether up, or whether in bed, They cannot let one-another rest. Come move a little, Jack, I can't, my dear, for I'm against the wall@@ And if to your wife you turn your back, @@She will say, What did you get married for ? I COMES from Bankside you must know, And coalheaving I f@ollers, The chaps all call me Nobby Joe, I'm a cove as never hollers@@ But I hates a chap as makes a row, And a girl I can't a-bear, But vot I'm going to speak of now Is, Have you seen my Sarah ? Bankside is the spot, Never out of coller, There you'll find a nobby lot Of coves that never holler. One night we met@-@'twas in a crowd, I thought that she would shun me, But No, she said, I am not proud, @@And cast sheep's eyes upon me. Don't talk of dancing more, I beg, No opera can come near her, And as for standing on one leg@-They're pickles aside o' Sarah. There's not a singer in the town, With such a charming voice, sirs, You can hear her well from Horsleydow@n, Bang up to Charing Cross, sirs Her hunting songs are all the go, You should hear her ' Tantarara,@@ @@' Whoop, whoop, and Tallyho, Where's the voice like Sarah's ? And when we're dull I must infer, To mirth she'll soon restore us She chants the Jolly Waggoner, And can't she sing out Chorus ! The pipes and baccy then go round, The gatter then they bear her, She drinks till she sprawl@s on the ground, She likes her beer@-@does Sarah. She stands six feet within an inch, And if I attempts to thrash her, She can go in, sirs, at a pinch, A regular Tipton Slasher. She floors the Peelers too, in shoals, The Bobbies can't a@@bear her, And as for carrying sacks of coals, There's none comes up to Sarah. She squints with both eyes in her head Her nose is like a parrots, And all her hair it is as red As any bunch of carrots. We have no children, straight or halt, Some have a host like Pharaoh's I knows quite well it's not my fault, So in course it must be Sarah's. She takes an ounce of snuff a day, And I warrant fore the night's out, She puts a dozen quarts of beer away, And smokes a dozen pipes out. For bacca I just now did roam, To the shop of Dan O' Hara, So good night, chaps, I'm going home, To smoke a pipe with Sarah. NO. 17
 necke, and straw trussed vnder his belly, as the Ostlers had dressed him ore eue, he was gone out at the back-side, which led into a great field ioyning to the house, and so leaping diuers hedges, being a lustie stout horse, had got into a ground where a mare was grasing, with whom he kept such a coile, that they got into the high-way, where one of the Towne meeting them, knew the mare, and brought her and the horse to the man that owd her. In the meane space, the Musicians had beene at the Inne, and in requitall of their euenings gift, they in-tended to giue Cole some musicke in the morning. The good-man told them he tooke horse before day likewise there was a guest in the house that would haue bore him company to Reading, vnto whom the Oast also answered, that he himselfe set him vpon horsebacke, and that he went long agoe. Anon came the man that owed the mare, inquiring vp and downe, to know and if none of them missed a horse, who said no. At the last hee came to the signe of the Crane where Cole lay and calling the Oastlers, he demanded of them if they lackt none, they said no Why then said the man, I perceiue my mare is good for something, for if I send her to field single, she will come home double thus it passed on all that day and the night following. But the next day after, Coles wife musing that her hus-band came not home, sent one of her men on horse-backe, to see if he could meete him and if quoth she you meet him not betwixt this and Colebrooke, aske for him at the Crane, but if you find him not there, th
 of mien and kingly qualities, and the enthusiastic historian who chronicles the events of this royal visit becomes recklessly extrava-gant in the use of what may well be called truly loyal adjectives, as witness the following selection, culled at random from page after page of glowing narrative, in which the prince is described as affable, bluff, civil, condescending, conspicuous, dignified, frank, gallant with the accent first on one and then on t'other syllable , gracious, humble, liberal, pleasing, polite, princely, serene, striking, urbane, victorious, with all of which the other parts of speech patriotically, enthusiastically, and unanimously agree. A greater man than prince or king, who hap-pened to follow humbly in the suite of his royal master, receives but a passing notice, to wit Captain Nelson, of the Boreas, accompanied His Royal High-ness. Antigua, at one time, was compensated for the short plague of Parks by the presence of the Right Honorable Ralph Lord Laving-ton, Baron of Lavington, a very hospitable man and fond of splendor. His balls and routs were given upon a scale of the grand-est and most impressive magnificence. His hospitality was tempered by the regard due to a personage of his importance, and he firmly be-lieved in the inferiority in blood, breeding, and mental capacity of the black man. He would not, upon any occasion, receive a letter or parcel from the fingers of a black or colored man, and, in order to guard against such horrible defilement, he had a golden instrument wrought, something like a pair of sugar-tongs, in which to hold the presented article. He would not allow his blacks to wear shoes or stockings his footmen used to stand behind his carriage with their naked less shin-ing from the butter with which, by His Excellency's orders, they were daily compelled to anoint them. The whistle of the steam-launch interrupted my researches into the chronicles of Antigua. Bidding good-by to the librarian I hurried 
 thirst, that from the soul doth rise, Doth ask a drink divine But might I of Jove's nectar sup, I would not change for thine. I sent thee late a rosy wreath, Not so much honouring thee, As giving it a hope, that there It could not withered be But thou thereon didst only breathe, And sent'st it back to me, Since when it grows, and smells, I swear, Not of itself, but thee. -@Ben Jonson. LXXII. BRUTUS AND CASSIUS. Cas. That you have wronged me, doth appear in this You have condemned and noted Lucius Pella, For taking bribes here of the Sardians Wherein my letters, praying on his side, Because I knew the man, were slighted off. Bru. You wronged yourself, to write in such a case. Cas. In such a time as this it is not meet That every nice offence should bear his comment. Bru. Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself Are much condemned to have an itching palm To sell and mart your offices for gold To undeservers. Cas. I an itching palm ? You know that you are Brutus that speak this, Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last. Bru. The name of Cassius honours this corruption, And chastisement doth therefore hide his head. Cas. Chastisement
 -@H. SUCH, Machine Printer, Pub-lisher, 177, Union-street, Boro'.,-@ did belong, Unto the pleasures of those days At seven years old I was a child, And subject then was to be beguiled. At two times seven I must go learn, What good discipline was taught at school@, That good from evil I might learn, I thought myself no more a fool My parents were contriving then, How I should live when I was a man. At three times seven, I waxed wild, My manhood led me to be bold, I thought myself no more a child, My own conceit it so me told Then I did venture both far and near, To buy delight at a price too dear. At four times seven, I must take a wife, And leave off all my former ways, And thinking then perhaps I should thrive, And save myself from all disgrace So fare-you-well my companions all, For another business doth on me call. At five times seven, I must go and prove What I can gain by art and skill, But still against the stream I strove, I roll'd up stones against the hill The more I strove with might and main,@ The more I strove against the stream. At six times seven, all worldly care Began to harbour in my brain, My mind it still contriving was, How I should gain this worldly wealth, To purchase land and live on then, And make my children mighty men. At seven times seven, all worldly care Again did harbour in my brain, Then I did drink a heavy draught Of waters of experience, plain For there was none then so ready as I, To purchase burthens, sell, or buy. At eight times seven I waxed old, I must take myself unto my rest My neighbours all my counsel craved, And I was held in great request But to rise up early and sit up late, I was no longer able, my strength did bate I'D BE @@A GIPSY. I @'D be a gipsy merry and free, Roving abroad like the bird or the bee, Naught to control me, sportive and wild, All through the summer day free as a child, All through the summer day free as a child. What are the bright halls of splendour and pleasure ? What are the saloons of the brilliant and gay ? They cannot render the life given treasure, That freedom and health to the rovers convey. I'd be a Gipsy, c. I'd be a Gipsy, when the blue sky, Tinged with the stars that shine brightly on high, The turf for my pillow, and all the night long, Lull'd to repose by the nightingale's song, Lull'd to repose by the nightingale's song. Roving all day while the merry band wander'd, Telling the fate of the brave and the fair, Shunning the world and the wealth that is squandered, With coin just enough to be free as the air. I'd be a Gipsy, c. SEVEN AGES OF MAN, Continued. At nine times seven, I must take my leave, Of all my former vain delights, And then full sore it did me grieve, I fetched many a bitter sigh But my age it did so abate my strength, That I was forced to yield at length. At ten times seven my race is run, And I poor silly man must die, I looked up and saw the sun Had overcome the dark blue sky And now I must this world forsake, And another man my place must take. Now you may see as in a glass, The whole state of mortal man, How he from seven to seven doth pass, Until he is three-score and ten And then you see his race is run, He must leave off where he first begun.gun. n
 desire, he gaue her diuers gifts, insomuch that she began something to lissen vnto him and albeit she liked well of his speeches, yet would she blame him, and take him vp very short sometimes for the same, till in the end, Cutbert shewed himselfe to be desperate, saying hee would drowne himselfe rather than liue in her disdaine. O my sweet heart not so, quoth shee, God forbid I should be the death of any man Comfort thy selfe, kind Cutbert, and take this kisse in token of further kindnesse, and if thou wilt haue my fauour, thou must be wise and circumspect, and in my husbands sight I would alwayes haue thee to find fault with my doings, blame my bad huswifries, dispraise my person, and take exceptions at euery thing, whereby he will be as well pleased, as Simon of South-hampton with a messe of pottage. Deare Mistresse, quoth he, I will fulfill your charge to the vttermost, so that you will not take my iest in earnest. Shee answered, Thy foulest speeches I will esteeme the fairest, and take euery dispraise to be a praise from thee, turning each word to the contrary and so for this time adieu, good Cutb. for supper time drawes neere, and it is meet for me to looke for my meat. With that down comes old Bosome, calling his wife, saying, Ho Winifred, is supper ready ? they haue done playing aboue therefore let the Chamberlaine couer the Table. By and by, qd. she, it shall be done straight-way. How now my Masters who wins, qd. Cutbert ? Our money walkes to the West, qd. Marti
 oft he rises 'midst the twilight path, Against the pilgrim borne in heedless hum Now teach me, Maid composed, To breathe some softened strain, Whose numbers, stealing through thy darkening vale, May not unseemly with its stillness suit As, musing slow, I hail Thy genial loved return ! For, when thy folding-star arising shows His paly circlet, at his warning lamp The fragrant Hours, and Elves Who slept in buds the day, And many a Nymph who wreathes her brows with sedge, And sheds the freshening dew, and, lovelier still, The pensive Pleasures sweet, Prepare thy shadowy car. Then let me rove some wild and heathy scene Or find some ruin, 'midst its dreary dells, Whose walls more awful nod By thy religious gleams. Or, if chill blustering winds, or driving rain, Prevent my willing feet, † be mine the hut, That, from the mountain's side, Views wilds, and swelling floods, And hamlets brown, and dim-discovered spires And hears their simple bell, and marks o'er  version of lines 28-32 is -' Then lead, calm Votaress, where some sheety lake Cheers the lone heath, or some time-hallowed pile, Or upland fallows gray Reflect its last cool gleam '. † See Il Penseroso, 15
 of Albertus Magnus. And here let me extract what Sir Thomas Browne says upon this sub-ject in his Vulgar Errors. Book 7. Cap. 17. Every ear is filled with the story of Friar Bacon, that made a Brazen Head to speak these words Time is, which though they want not the like relation, is surely too literally received, and was but a mystical fable concerning the philosopher's great work, where-in he eminently laboured implying no more by the copper head than the vessel where it was wrought and by the words it spake, than the opportunity to be watched about the tempus ortus, or birth of the mystical child, or philosophical king of Lullius, the rising of the terra foliata of Arnoldus when the earth, sufficiently impregnated with the water, as-cendeth white and splendent which not observed the work is irrecoverably lost, according to that of Petrus Bonus '@Ibi est operis perfectio, aut annihila-tio, quoniam ipse die oriantur elementa simplicia, depurata, quae egent statim compositione, antequam volent ab igne.' Now letting slip this critical oppor-tunity, he missed the intended treasure which  mentions a head of earth made at Oxford by the art of necromancy, in the reign of Edward the Second, that at a time appointed spake these words, Caput decidetur, the head shall be cut off Caput elevabitur, the head shall be lift up@. Pedes elevabun-tur supra caput, the feet shall be lifted above the hea
 the islands composing what would fitly, and might well, in honor of their discoverer be named the Columbian Archipelago, that he imagined he had reached the Ante-Illas@-@the Forward@-@that is to say, the outlying islands, the advance-sentinels guarding the coast of the mysterious country where there were great cities and untold stores of precious stones. Peter Martyr, who was personally acquainted with the great Genovese or was he a Corsican, as has been lately claimed , writing during the same year that Christopher Columbus returned from his first expedition in search of the new world, states The great ad-miral gives it out that he has discovered the island Ophir, but after considering the world as laid down by cosmographers, those must be the islands called Antillae. Early Spanish navigators, accepting this theory, called the islands, now known to English-speaking people as the West Indies, Antillia. When wider explorations had added in-numerable islands to their charts, they divided the Columbian Ar-chipelago into two groups, naming them, respectively, Islas de Lu-cayas and Islas de los Caribes, or de los Cannibales. Of the first-named islands, which we now call the Bahamas, I need but to recall the fact that on the morning of October 13, 1492, Colum-bus on his first voyage of discovery sighted the island called by the natives Guanihane -@and gave to it the name San Salvador. This was his first sight of the new world. On his second voyage, in the year 1493, Columbus discovered the Caribbean Archipelago in such manner as I shall hereafter relate. The islands of the Caribs and of the Cannibals were known to the Spaniards at a later date, and are set down on their charts, even until this very day, as Islas de Barlovento and Islas de Sotavento -that is to say, the Windward and Leeward Islands. Strictly speaking the Leeward Islands were and are, Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola or Hayti, and Porto Rico they are also called the Greater Antilles while the smaller islands which extend for eight hundred and fifty miles, in a remarkably regular curve, from the southeastern point of
 sure of it, in token of which receive this jewell, and withall gave him a costly jewell from his necke. The fryer did with great reverence thanke his maiestie, and said as your maiesties vassall you shall ever finde me ready to do you service, your time of neede shall finde it both beneficiall and delightfull. But amongst all these gentlemen, I see not the man that your grace did send for me by, sure he hath lost his way, or else met with some sport that detaines him so long. I promised to be here before him, and all this noble assembly can wit-nesse I am as good as my word I heare him comming with that entered the gentleman all bedurted for he had rid through ditches, quagmires, plashes, and waters, that hee was in a most pittifull case he seeing the fryer there looked full angerly, and bid a poxe on all his devils, for they had led him out of his way, and almost drowned him. Be not angry sir said Fryer Bacon here is an old friend of yours that hath more cause for she hath tarried these three houres for you with that hee pulled up the hangings, and behinde them stood a kitchen-mayde with a basting-ladle in her hand now am I as good as my word with you for I promised to helpe you to your sweetheart, how do you like this ? So ill, answered the gentleman, that I will be revenged of you. Threaten not said Fryer Bacon least I do you more shame, and doe you take heed how you give schol-lers the lye againe but because I know not how well you are stored with money at this time, I will bear your wenches charges home with that she vanished awa
THE  There was a man tho' it's not very common, And as people say @he was born of a woman@, And if i be true as I have been told, He never war a mere infant but age made him old. His face war the oddest that ever was seen,@@ His mouth stood across, 'twixt his nose and his chin, Whenever he spoke it was then with his voice,@@ And in talking he always made some sort of noise. He'd arm on each side to work when he pleas'd, b@ut @he newer work'd hard whe n he lived at his ease, Two legs he had got to make him complte, And what war more odd at each end were his feet. Hi@@s legs as folks say he could move at his will, And when he was walking he never stood still, If o war to see him you would laugh till you burst, For one leg or t'other would always be first. And as some people say, if you gae him some meat, Why if he was hungry he surely would eat. nd when he is dry, if you give him the pot, The liquor most commonly put down his thro@at. If the whi@mym fellow had a river to cross, If he could not get or he stay@ed were  seldom or never got off the dry ground, So great was his luck, that he never got drowned. Another misfortune befel this poor yeoman, For @@when he was married his wife was a woman, And if you believe me, why he was releved, You may surely ever think he never was with child. And if it be true, as I have heard tell. When he were sick, he was not very well, He gave a last gasp, opened his mouth so w@ide, By some means this poor fellow died. But the reason he died, and the cause of his death, Was poor soul, for the want of more breath, And now he is left in the ground for to moulder, Had he lived a day longer, he'd been a day  It's you bonnie banks and you bonnie braes, Where the men shines bright and bonnie, W@here land my ue love went out to gaze, On the bonnie banks of Benlomo@nd. Tis you'll take the high road and I'll take the low road, And I'll be in Scotland before you For I and my true love shall never meet again, On the bonnie banks of Benlo@mond. Tis not for hardships that I must endure, Nor leaving of Bonlomond But 'tis for t@he leaving of my comrades al, And the bonnie lad that I love so dearly. With his bonnie lace shoes his buckles so clear, And his plaid o'er his shoulder hung so rarely One glance of his eyes would banish dull care, So handsome the looks of my Charlie. But as long as I live, and as long as i breathe, I will sing to his memory fairly, My true is tken by@ the arrows of death, And now Flora laments for Charlie. J. W@ELLS, PRINT@E
 writing about. Likewise of the pepper-pot, of which I partook with my Barbadian friends, at short intervals, as I lingered almost too long in their delightful company, with one eye on the Ice House clock, fearing to overstay my time, in my heart regretting the approach of the moment when I must continue on my tour of sight-seeing. The Ice House at Bridgetown !@-@there one can read, talk, eat, drink, buy a needle or an anchor, see the workings of the ingenious machine which turns out enough ice daily to furnish a long, thick slide for the jeunesse dorée of Barbados, if by chance any of the youthful Bims should yearn to practise the art of wearing out their Sunday-go-to-meeting shoes in the enjoyment of the pastime which Mr. Samuel Weller called keep the pot a-boiling. In addition to the restaurant and cafe of the Ice establishment, there are twenty or more sleeping-rooms, all most comfortably fur-nished, delightfully clean, and, what is particularly noteworthy, are rented at half the price one would be compelled to pay@ for worse accommodation in the best hotels in either Long Branch or Saratoga. I have spoken of the Barbados Railway. It runs across the island to the Atlantic coast to two little towns, known respectively by@ the names of Bathsheba and Bath to these watering-places the qual-ity of the island resort during certain seasons of the year to enjoy the fine surf-bathing. About half-way from Bridgetown to these fashionable resorts the railway passes close to Bagged Point Light-house, standing on a bold promontory that juts far out into the At-lantic, thence onward the scenery reminds one of the coast of York-shire in the neighborhood of Flamborough Head and Scarborough. I have not space to describe this wild and wave-worn shore it is well worth the journey to view it from the railway, and the trip from the city to the terminus of the road and return may be made in less than four hours. Barbados is really the only place in the Caribbees, unless we also except Port of Spain in Trinidad, where there is comfortable hotel accommodation, and where a traveller may abide in ease and comfo
 328eave the warp, and weave the woof, The winding-sheet of Edward's race. Give ample room, and verge enough The characters of hell to trace. Mark the year, and mark the night, When Severn shall re-echo with affright The shrieks of death, thro' Berkley's roofs that ring, Shrieks of an agonizing King ! She-wolf of France, with unrelenting fangs, That tear'st the bowels of thy mangled mate, From thee be born, who o'er thy country hangs The scourge of Heaven. What terrors round him wait ! Amazement in his van, with Flight combined. And Sorrow's faded form, and Solitude behind. II. 2. ' Might@y Victor, mighty Lord ! Low on his funeral couch he lies ! No pitying heart, no eye, afford A tear to grace his obsequies. Is the sable Warrior fled ? Thy son is gone. He rests among the dead. The swarm, that in thy noontide beam were born ? Gone to salute the rising Morn. Fair laughs the Morn, and soft the Zephyr blows, While proudly riding o'er the azure realm In gallant trim the gilded vessel goes Youth on the prow, and Pleasure at the helm Regardless of the sweeping Whirlwind's sway, That, hushed in grim repose, expects his evening-prey. 51. ' I have a soul that like an ample shield Can take in all, and verge enough for more '. -@Dryden, Don Sebastian. 55. Edward II. was murdered in Berkley Castle. 57. She-wolf of France. Isabel of France, wife of Edward II.@and mother of Edward II
 medical attendance, for their laborers. The coolies are compelled to labor six working days, of seven and a half hours each, in every week, receiving about thirteen cents for every day they faithfully perform their task. At first an equal number of cooly men and women were imported to the colonies, but in 1840 the proportion of women was re-duced to one-third of the whole number of men. In 1844 the indent-ured term of service, which until then had been three years, was extended to five years, and it was provided that in all subsequent in-dentures there should be inserted a clause guaranteeing, to all Hindus who desired to return home at the end of their term, a free passage to India. In 1853 the law was further amended to permit the coolies to reindenture themselves for a second period of five years or, if so dis-posed, to commute any part of their unfulfilled contract by the re-payment of a proportionate part of their indenture-fee. The colonial government reserves the right to remove the laborers from any planta-tion where they are being badly treated, and reindenture them to more humane employers. Any cooly who refuses to work is fined a day's pay for each and every day he neglects to perform his bounden duty, and all of these laborers are indentured to the plantation, and not tot he planter, so that changes in the ownership of plantations are not necessarily@ attended, nor often followed, by the removal of the coolies, who go with the land, as did the Russian serfs before the day of their emancipation. I give the following official figures as evidence of the growth of this colony, not as convincing testimony to the soundness of the theory ventilated on all sides, that contract labor has been the salvation of the planters of Trinidad and yet the figures do in some sort justify the claism made that the introduction of cooly labor has increased the prosperity of the island. In 1838 the population numbered 39,328, and increased in forty-three years to 153,123, as is shown by the cen-sus of 1881. During the same period commerce has taken wonderful strides the export of sugar has increased fivefold, and that of cocoa threefol
 coude get in his lande of Normandye, and forth withall rode with them towarde Rome, to helpe and socoure the emperour but before he coude come thyder the false traytour the senesshall had slayne the empe-rour, which was grete pyte but Robert wente streyght into Rome, and lyghtly with all his power and myght went ayenst the senesshall. And whan Robert aspyed the false traytoure, he descry@ed hym, saynge thus Abyde, thou false traytour, now thou shalte neuer escape my handes yf thou abyde me in the felde, for thou art now nygh thy lyve's ende thou dydest putte ones a spere-heed in thy thygh for to haue deceyued the Romayns, defende now thy lyue ayenst me, for thou shalte neuer escape myn handes, and thou hast also slayne my lorde themperoure, wherfore thou shalt be well rewarded after that thou hast deserued. And with these wordes Robert, with a grete desyre and myghty courage, rode unto the senesshall and gaue hym suche stroke on the helmette, that he clove helmet and heed unto the teeth, and in contynente the traytour fell downe deed unto the erth, and Robert made hym to be brought in to Rome, to the entente that he sholde there be slayne to reuenge the Romayns, the whiche was done in the presence of all the people that were in Rome and in this wyse fenysshed that traytour the senesshall his lyfe, and had a shameful death, wherby men may make and take hede that it is grete folye to coveyte or desyre thynges passynge theyr degre for and the senesshall had not desyred t
THE LAMENTATION OF MICHAEL BARRETT.@@ I will unfold to young and old if you but lend an ear Good christians all both great and small, that live both far and near, To hear my lamentation will make you shed a tear, May the Lord have mercy on my soul, my hour in drawing near. My name is Michael Barrett, and the same I'll never disown, It's true I struggled night nd day to free the Sham-rock shore, I love the land that gave me birth, and the same will never deny, So it is for being an Irishman I am condemned to die My parents rear'd me tender@ly and very well it's know They gave me education for the @holy church of Rome Never thinking at that time that hanged I'd ever be, Tho' thousands through oppression flew unto America. The Lord will well reward them upon a future day, Who swore away the innocent livesby cdperjury There is Allen, Larkin, and O'Brien, says Barrett I'll be four, And I'd freely die a thousand deaths to free the Sham-rock shore. My curse attend you, Mullany, of men you are the worst, Lon@g live my noble counsel, for me he done his best, In vain he laboured hard to free me from the gallow tree, Against that perjured traitor, may the Lord look down on me. Farewell unto old Ireland, and this world I bid adieu My gallant countrymen let your hearts be firm and true And free old Ireland from her chains, the land which we adore, May the Almighty lend a helping hand and free the Shamrock shore. My lamentation to conclude and end my mournful song May every true-bred Irishman unite before it's long And free old Ireland from her chains, and away with tyranny, The Lord have mercy on my soul, I have no more to say. PRINTED  lines concerning the times, Come listen you Catholics every one, @@A@@@@lthough I am feeble I'll do my endeavours, To answer the boys of the Protestant drum. @@@T@@@@hose lines they are heinous, and never blasphemous, Against our blessed Mother and her beloved Son. She is honoured by Christians, despised by Philistines And insulted by those of the Protestant drum. When Satan invented the new Reformation, He whispered Kig Harry and thus @he did say, Young Nancy is charming, take her to your a@rms, And banish your doating Queen Catherine away. King Harry, Anne's father, w@ho wed his own daughter But as from his cursed lust the Orange first sp@rug That may we well wonder when churches he plann'd He then march'@d to hell with his Prote@stant drum. Those upstarts of preachers the curse of the reformation' Each one that could read took a bible in hand, The scrawls of the nation they all became preachers, Like devils from hell they infested the land. The Protestant church it has reason to mourn, Since Catholic heroes are carrying the sway, There is Luther and Calvin in hell they're all burning, They are calling for help but they can't find no aid. Like devils in flames tormented in chains, Callin@g for water for to cool their tongues, And that is the portion of each Orange beagle, They're marching through hell with their Protestant drum. When King Harry departed, from the world started He called on St. Peter for to let him in, He says I am champion of the Reformation, Besides, don't you know I'm a great Englishking. O King, says St Peter, you're the curse of the nation, @@You denied Pope and Popery, and that you've done,@@ So fly from those gates and down to -@straight, And rattle away with the Protestant drum. So now to conclude and finish these lines I think I have answered the Protestant, drum@, If God in his mercy would open their eyes, They'd all become Catholics every one, We may thank our Creator, he's our blessed Saviour, He supported our church against these vile clans, For 300 yea@rs, and amidst terrors and fears, Buy was never put down by a Protestant Dru
 for, said he, as sir William hath taken this conceit of himselfe, so is he like neuer to heare other opinion, till his owne conceit doth remoue it, the which must be wisely wrought to bring it to passe. Whereupon the Lady hauing conferred with a Physi-cian that beare a great name in the countrey, hee vnder-tooke to remoue this fond conceit by his skill. The day being appointed when the Phisician should come, and the Knight beeing told thereof, for very ioy he would goe forth to meete him, when a woman of the Towne saw the Knight, hauing heard what rumor went because of his nose, shee looked very stedfastly vpon him the Knight casting his eye vpon her, seeing her to gaze so wistly in his face, with an angry countenance said thus to her, Why, how now good huswife, cannot you get you about your business ? The woman being a shrewish queane, answered him cuttedly, No mary can I not, qd. she. No, you drab, What is the cause, said the Knight ? Because, quoth she, your nose stands in my way wherewith the Knight being very angry, and abashed, went backe againe to his house. The Physician being come, he had filled a certaine bladder with sheepes blood, and conueyed it into his sleeue, where at the issue of the bladder he had put in a piece of a swans quill, through the which the blood should runne out of the bladder so close by his hand, that hee holding the Knight by the nose, it might not be perceiued, but that it issued thence. All things being prepared, he told the Knight, that by a foule corru
 and two more with him whereupon according to the priuilege of the Towne, they put Halters about the theeues neckes presently to hang them vp. When they were come to the place appointed, Wallis and the rest being out of hope to escape death, prepared themselues patiently to suffer the rigor of the Law. And therewith the rest laying open the lewd-nesse of his life, grieuously lamenting for his sinnes, at length commending their soules to God, they yeelded their bodies to the graue, with which sight the people were greatly mooued with pity, because they had neuer seene men come to hanging before but when they should haue beene tyed vp, Hodgekins willed one of his neighbours to play the Hang-mans part, who would not by any @meanes doe it, although he was a very poore man, who for his paines should haue beene possest of all their apparell. When he would not yeeld to the office, one of those which had his cloth stolen, was commanded to doe the deed but he in like manner would not, saying When I haue the skill to make a man, I will hang a man, if it chance my workmanship doe not like me. And thus from one to another, the office of the Hang-man was posted off. At last a Rogue came by, whom they would haue compelled to haue done that deed. Nay, my masters, qd. he, not so but as you haue got a priuiledge for the Towne, so you were best to procure a Commission to make a hang-man, or else you are like to be without one for me. Neighb
 almost inaccessible mountain-encampments, leaving the shore in horrid solitude to the sea-birds that are, for the most part, says Da-vies, taken by hand, not fearing man, in regard they seldom see any. The Caribs had good reason to keep away from the sea-shore, for Oldmixon tells us that At this time 1676 there was a wicked practice in the West Indies of which the English are accused, and that was their stealing and enslaving Indians, which they took on the con-tinent or the islands, and one, Colonel Warner, being charged with the unlawful traffic@-@if it deserves that name@-@was made a prisoner in England@, and sent . . . to Barbadoes to take a trial there, but he found so many friends that he came off. He also states that although Dominica was claimed by the English sovereigns as a jewel in the British crown, they could not for many years base their right of ownership on any proof of peaceful possession or even successful re-sistance to the native attempts to dispossess them of it for their sub-jects, who desired to settle upon the island, maintained with diffi-culty a mere foothold on the coast, all their efforts to penetrate into the interior resulting in certain loss of life and disastrous defeat. So that, although the English pretended to be lords of this island, they never successfully attempted to make any settlement upon it, the Caribbeans are so numerous. . . . 'Tis likely the Caribbeans will never part with the possession of this island, and so it may as well be left out of the Governor of Barbadoes' commission, as the Kingdom of Jerusalem out of the King of Spain's titles. From time to time runaway negro slaves joined themselves to the Caribs, and by intermarriage bred a race of black Caribs, as the half-bloods are called, to distinguish them from the yellow or true Caribs. Gradually the aborigines were driven from their ancient do-mains, until in our days they are crowded into a small reservation on the windward side of the island, extending three or four miles along the Atlantic coast and reaching inland to the summits of the moun-tains. There they live pensioners upon the charity of a government that, as we have seen, once despaired of ever being able to conqu
 SONG. If I had thought thou could'st have died, I might not weep for thee But I forgot, when by thy side, That thou could'st mortal be. It never through my mind had past That time would e'er be o'er, And I on thee should look my last, And thou should'st smile no more ! And still upon that face I look, And think 'twill smile again And still the thought I will not brook That I must look in vain. But when I speak thou dost not say, What thou ne'er left'st unsaid And now I feel, as well I may, Sweet Mary, thou art dead ! If thou would'st stay, e'en as thou art, All cold, and all serene@-I still might press thy silent heart, And where thy smiles have been I While e'en thy chill, bleak corse I have, Thou seemest still mine own But there@-@I lay thee in thy grave, And I am now alone ! I do not think, where'er thou art, Thou hast forgotten me And I, perhaps, may soothe this heart, In thinking still of thee Yet there was round thee such a dawn Of light ne'er seen before, As fancy never could have drawn, And never can restore
CHAPTER I. A VOYAGE TO THE CARIBBEES. A Sudden Start on a Sea Journey@-@Incidents of the Voyage@-@From January to June, Overcoats to Seersuckers, in Three Days-@The Rising of the Southern Cross@-@The Course to the Caribbees@-@Historical Notes@-@A Landfall. A NIPPING southeaster hurtled over the East River, as the Barracouta swung out of her dock at the foot of Market Street, and gradually headed oceanward. The gale driving counter to the ebbing tide caught the crests of the waves, curled them backward, whipping them into foam and icy spray it whistled through the rigging of the ships, swept across the cables of the great bridge, until they droned like the chords of a titanic AEolian harp. The clouds fled away headlong be-fore the pitiless storm, that whisked the steam from the vent of the Barracouta's whistle, which gave a prolonged shriek as the steamer gathered headway. A parting salute was fired, and the squall snatched the smoke from the cannon's mouth, tearing it into tatters and whirling it out of sight before the report of the discharge had startled the echoes of Washington Heights. The air became colder and colder as the steamer kept steadfastly on her way down the harbor, the storm increased in violence until it was impossible to escape from its onset in the shelter of any nook or corner on deck. The captain and pilot paced to and fro on the bridge, stamping their feet, beating their hands, blinking and wink-ing ahead into the eye of the wind, from time to time turning their backs to the gale to catch breath as they rubbed their noses, already as red as the port side-light of the steamer. The man at the steeri
 THE NIGHTINGALE. AS it fell upon a day In the merry month of May, Sitting in a pleasant shade Which a grove of myrtles made, Beasts did leap and birds did sing, Trees did grow and plants did spring, Everything did banish moan Save the nightingale alone She, poor bird, as all forlorn, Leaned her breast uptill a thorn, And there sung the dolefullest ditty That to hear it was great pity. ' Fie, fie, fie,' now would she cry ' Tereu, tereu,' by and by That to hear her so complain Scarce I could from tears refrain For her griefs so lively shown Made me think upon mine own. -@Ah, thought I, thou mournst in vain, None takes pity on thy pain Senseless trees, the@y cannot hear thee, Ruthless beasts, they will not cheer thee King Pandion,† he is dead, All thy friends are lapped in lead All th@y fellow birds do sing Careless of thy sorrowing Even so, poor bird, like thee None alive will pity me. -@Barnfield. This and the next piece often printed as one appeared in ' The Passionate Pilgrim by W. Shakspere ' 1599 , in which were some sonnets and songs by him, and a few short pieces by other poets. † Pandion in the fable was the father of Philomel
 the same note so that when they came home, their husbands had little to doe Especially Simon, whose wife daily lay at him for London apparell, to whome he said, Good woman, be content, let us goe according to our place aud ability what will the Bailiffes thinke, if I should prancke thee up like a peacocke, and thou in thy attire surpasse their wiues ? they would either thinke I were mad, or else that I had more money then I could well vse, consider, I pray thee good wife, that such as are in their youth masters, doe proue in their age starke beggars. Besides that, it is enough to raise me vp in the kings booke, for many times, mens coffers are iudged by their garments why, we are Country folks, and must keepe our selues in good compasse gray russet, and good hempe-spun cloth doth best become vs I tell thee wife, it were as vndecent for vs to goe like Londoners as it is for Londoners to goe like courtiers. What a coyle keepe you, quoth she ? are we not Gods creatures as well as Londoners ? and the kings subiects, as well as they ? then finding our wealth to be as good as theirs, why should we not goe as gay as Londoners ? No, husband, no, here is the fault, wee are kept without it, onely because our husband be not so kind as Lon-doners why man, a cobler there keepes his wife better then the best Clothier in this Countrey nay, I will affirme it, that the London Oyster-wiues, and the very kitchin-stuffe cryers, doe exceed vs in their Sundaies attire nay, more then that, I did see the Water-beare
 -@Printed Published by H. SUCH, 177, Union street, Boro',@-@ Wi' a nosegay so fine, and my holiday clothes, My han@ds i' my pockets, a courting I goes. The weather was cold, and my bosom was hot, My heart in a gallop, t' old mare in a trot Now I wur so bashful and loving withal, My tongue stuck in my mouth -@I said-Heigho ! Dang it says feyther, what for dos'nt thou talk ? one might as weel hae naebo@dy wi' them as thee. Why, says I, I's sure I talk'd plenty as we com ower t'lang meadow. -@Aye, says he, what about ? -@About, says I, why -about@-@about@-@about@-Nothing at all !@-@Ri fol de rol, c. When we came to the door, I look'd lumpish and glum@@ The rapper I held 'twixt my finger and thumb Tap went the knocker, and Kate show'd her chin She chuckled and duckled@-@I bow'd and walk'd in. Now I wur as bashful as bashful could be, And Kitty, poor lass ! wur as bashful as me So I bow'd, and she grinn'd and I let my hat fall, @@@@@@@@Then I smiled@-@scratched my head@-@and said -I@-@I@-@I's co@med,@-@Yes sir, says she, I see ye's com'd, what's your business ? Why, says I, I hean't much business, I's com'd to-@to-@to To what ? says she@-@Why, says I, to-@to@-@to Dang it, says feyther, and he hits me a great drive ower t'chops, tell her thou's came to make love to her at yence.@-@Ees says I, feyther says as how I's com'd to make-@to make. To make what ? says she. Why, says I to make@-@to make-Nothing at all ! Ri fol de rol, c. If bashful wur I, no less bashful the maid, She simper'd and blush'd@-@wi' her apron strings played, Till the old folks impatient to have the thing done, Agreed little Kitty and I should be one. In silence us young folks just nodded consent, Hand in hand to the church to be married we went Where we answered the parson in voices so small, Love@-@honour@-@obey@-@and a@-Ecod I shall never forget it it wur so comical. Parson turns to me wi' a face as grave as a church-yard, and he says to me, Wully, he says, will tou hae this young woman to be thy wedded wife ? Ees, sir, says I, I brought her here o' purpose. So he turns to Kitty, and he says, Kitty, says he, will tou hae this young man to be thy wedded husband ? Dang me if Kitty warn't quite shock'd she blush'd and she stammer'd, and she twitter'd, and wur quite in a state of conflammery gustuation, as a body may say and so she says to the parson, Sir, says she, Sir,-@I-I -I-Nothing at all ! -@Ri fol de rol, c. But mark what a change in the course of a week, Now Kate left off blushing, I boldly could speak, Could play wi' my deary, laugh loud at a jest@ She would coax too and fondle as well as the best, Now we laugh at past follies, and since we've declared, To encourage young folks who at wedlock are scared, That if once to your aid, some assurance you call, You may kiss and get married, and@-Ecod it wur nought when it wur ower just like hanging. But I shall never forget that day, there were sic fiddling, sic feasting, and sic dancing. But when it began to get rather late, I gi'es our Kate a nudge, and says I, brush ! and then I made a bit of a speech to the company says I, Neybers@-bridesmaid and bride-groom,-@I'll thank you all to make a clean sweep and I hope you'll all come again this day nine months, and I'll show you-Show us what ? Why, says I, I'll show you, a-a@@-Nothing at all ! -Ri fol de rol, c. THE HOLE IN HER STOCK@I@NG. I N London once, as I've heard say, A maiden dwelt, named Carrier, Whose heart was beating night and day@ For some-one who would marry her. Tho' sweethearts she'd had two or three, They each had got offended Because she would not decent be, And keep her stockings mended. CHORUS. Oh, such a fuss they made, Oh dear, you'll say 'tis shocking, There's none would have this charming maid, Because a hole was in her stocking. A barber first a wooing came, To her his love to thrust in Who said his heart was in a flame, So full that it was bursting. He said, while kneeling at her feet, Indeed I'm not a mocking, But as he viewed her face so sweet, He did not twig her stocking. Next day on him she gave a call, Her hair for to have platted, He could not comb it straight at all, Because it was so matted The barber at it cried, oh, fie ! And called her names most shocking, And as she put her foot so high, He saw a large hole in her stocking. A grocer next, quite full of puff, That came one day to court her, And said that he had gold enough Through life for to support her. She to his house so sly did creep, And at the door was knocking, The grocer up the airy peep'd, And then he spied her@-@stocking. A cobler next, said quite polite, @@@@@@In spite of wind and weather,@@@@@ He'd always stick to her as tigh@@@t@@ As sole and upper leather She ordered shoes, which soon were done, For her sweet feet to rock in, But as she stoop'd to try them on, His eye fixed on her-@stocking. So maidens all pray list to me, Before my song is ended, That if you'd wish to married be, Pray keep your stockings mended. This short advice-@indeed 'tis true, You'll say perhaps I'm a bold one If you can't get cash to buy them new, Sit down and mend your old one
 them, asking what they would ? know, said Fryer Bacon that wee have made an artificiall head of brasse, which we would have to speake, to the furtherance of which wee have raised thee, and being raised, we will here keepe thee, unlesse thou tell to us the way and manner how to make this head to speake. The Devill told him that he had not that power of himselfe be-ginner of lyes said Fryer Bacon I know that thou dost dissemble, and therefore tell it us quickly, or else wee will here bind the to remaine during our pleasures. At these threatnings the Devill consented to doe it, and told them, that with a continuel fume of the six hotest simples it should have motion, and in one month space speak, the Time of the moneth or day hee knew not also hee told them, that if they heard it not before it had done speaking, all their labour should be lost they being satisfied, licensed the spirit for to depart. Then went these two learned fryers home againe, and prepared the simples ready, and made the fume, and with coutinuallwatchingattended when this Brasen head would speake thus watched they for three weekes @without any rest, so that they were so weary and sleepy, that they could not any longer refraine from rest then called Fryer Bacon his man Miles, and told him, that it was not unknown to him what paines Fryer Bungy and himselfe had taken for three weekes space, onely to make, and to heare the Brasen-head speake, which if they did not, then had they lost all their labour, and all England had a great losse thereby therefore hee i
 there any one here that's got a desire, To wed with a grumbling wife, He'd better by far put his head in the fire, And at once put an end to his life For I married one and I thought her a dove, But I very soon wished myself dead, For in a week's time she got tired of love, And pulled all the hair off my head. Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! My heart is so full that I'm ready to cry, Oh ! what a poor unlucky fellow am I. The first sad mishap filled my eyes full of tears, She brought me home children two. And said you must father these two children dears, Said I, I'll be hanged if I do. She said with a sneer, how dare I presume, To think of my case being hard Then she knocked me down three pair of stairs wi' the broom, And bolted me out in the yard. But much worse than that is the next if you'll mark, I thought it would make me go wild@@@@@@, When I trod upon our cat's tail in the dark, He mollrowed and awoke the young child. She up with her fist, which put him in a fright, Then swore she would make him to rue it, So she made me go to sleep in the cupboard all night, Though I said I didn't go to do it. @@@@@@@On the very next morning indeed it is true, I met with a most shocking loss, She said you must go buy some meat for a stew, I will, love, but don't you be cross. But oh ! what ill luck in this world we oft find, Before I could get home to her, A large Newfoundland dog came smelling behind And stole it all off the skewer. So when I got home, full of trouble and fear, O how I did shiver and shake, Said I, I have met with an accident, dear, A large dog run away with the steak. If you'd been there you'd have pitied my sorrow, My head she so pummell'd with blows,@@@ And said, Mr. Cox, I shall leave you to-morrow, Then pulled me about by the nose. My wife on a Saturday night comes, oh dear ! To the place where my wages I take, She won't e'en allow me a pint of small beer, And with hunger and cold I oft quake. Then the young uns she makes me take out for a walk, Or drag 'em about in a shay, @A@@@@@nd often I bring 'em home squalling, oh, lawk ! And then there's the devil to  @-H. SUCH, Printer Publisher, @@@@177, Union-street, Borough.-@ a church and on it put a steeple His father was a Gallacher, his mother was a Brady, His aunt was an O'Shaughnessay, first cousin to O'Grady. CHO@RUS. Oh ! success attend St. Patrick's fist, he was a saint so clever, Oh ! he gave the frogs and toads a twist@-@and banished them for ever. The Wi@cklow hills are very high, and so's the hill of Howth, sir, But there's a hill much higher still, much higher than them both, sir 'Twas on the top of this big hill St. Patrick preached the sarmont That drove the frogs into the bogs, and bothered all the varmont. There's not a mile in Ireland's Isle where the durty varmont musters, But there he set his dear fore foot and murdered them in clusters The toads went pop, the frogs went plop, slap dashing into the water, And the snakes committed suicide to save themselves from slaughter. No wonder that the Irish boys should be so free and frisky, For sure Saint Pat he taught them that, as well as drinking whiskey No wonder that the Saint himself to drink it should be willing,@@ Since his mother kept a shebeen shop in the town of Enniskillen. Prince Hohenloe he would go mad to hear of Paddy's gammon, When he clapp'd his head into his mouth and swam the Shannon, And as for making dumb folks speak, to be sure he had the carny, For St. Patrick was the very man that first invented blarney. Oh, dear ! I'm blow'd up each day,'so my brains out I'll blow, That certainly will put an end to my woe. 547. 
 sole object of the avarice which tempted them in search of the fabled wealth of unknown worlds. For one hundred and twenty-five years the Caribs remained in possession of Liamuiga, until the year 1618, when a certain Mr. Thomas Warner, an adventurous and enterprising trader, accompanied shipmaster Roger North on a voyage to Surinam, where he fell in with Captain Thomas Painton, who proposed to Warner that instead of endeavoring to establish themselves in a part of the world where the Dutch had already secured a foothold, they should attempt the settlement of one of the smaller Caribbean Islands. Painton gave so glowing a report of the beauty, fertility, and natural advantages of St. Christopher that Warner decided to repair thither with him, to the end that they two should found a colony. Painton died in Surinam, but Warner, returning to England in 1620, for the purpose of enlisting the co-operation of his patrons in this new enterprise, immediately busied himself to carry out the project, of which he now became the sole promoter. With great difficulty he induced fourteen adventurers as needy as himself to embark with him in a vessel bound for Vir-ginia, where they arrived in safety after a stormy voy@age across the Atlantic, and, sailing thence soon after their arrival, reached St. Chris-topher in January, 1623. It has been claimed for Barbados that it is the most ancient of all the British colonies in the West Indies, and it is indeed true, as I shall hereafter show, that the Olive Blossom, a British ship, having touched there in 1605, remained at anchor long enough to allow its commander to take possession of that island in the name of James I., but it is also true that no permanent settlement was established in Barbados until twenty years later for the Olive Blossom continued on her voyage to countries farther to the west and south, leaving the Island Barbados desolate and uninhabited. The colonists sent out by Sir William Courteen, under the patronage of the Earl of Marlborough, did not arrive at Barbados till the latter part of 1624, more than a year after Mr. Thomas Warner had taken possession of St. Christopher. It is maintained by some historians that a numb
 the better to strengthen himselfe against his brother. It chanced on a time, as he, with one of his sonnes, and diuers of his Nobilitie, rode from London towards Wales, to appease the fury of the Welshmen, which then began to raise themselves in armes against his authority, that he met with a great number of Waines loaden with cloth, comming to London, and seeing them still driue one after another so many together@, de-manded whose they were the Waine-men answered in this sort Coles of Reading quoth they. Then by and by the King asked another saying Whose cloth is all this ? Old Coles, quoth hee and againe anon after he asked the same questions to others, and still they an-swered, Old Coles. And it is to be remembred, that the king met them in such a place so narrow and streight, that hee with the rest of his traine, were faine to stand as close to the hedge, whilest the carts passed by, the which at that time being in number aboue two hundred, w@as neere hand an hour ere the King could get roome to be gone so that by his long stay, he began to be displeased, although the admiration of that sight did much qualifie his furie but breaking out in discon-tent, by reason of his stay, he said, I thought Old Cole had got a Commission for all the carts in the Country to cary his cloth. And how if he haue quoth one of the Wainmen doth that grieue you good sir ? Yes, good sir, said our King, what say you to that ? The fellow seeing the King in asking the question to bend h
 TO AUTUMN. O AUTUMN, laden with fruit, and stained With the blood of the grape, pass not, but sit Beneath my shady roof there thou mayst rest, And tune thy jolly voice to my fresh pipe, And all the daughters of the year shall dance !@@ Sing now the lusty song of fruits and flowers. ' The narrow bud opens her beauties to The sun, and love runs in her thrilling veins Blossoms hang round the brows of Morning, and Flourish down the bright cheek of modest Eve, Till clustering Summer breaks forth into singing, And feathered clouds strew flowers round her head. The Spirits of the Air live on the smells Of fruit and Joy, with pinions light, roves round The gardens, or sits singing in the trees.' Thus sang the jolly Autumn as he sat Then rose, girded himself, and o'er the bleak Hills fled from our sight but left his golden load. -Blake. CCLXII. TO THE EVENING STAR. THOU fair-haired Angel of the Evening, Now, whilst the sun rests on the mountains, light Thy bright torch of love, thy radiant crown Put on, and smile upon our evening bed ! Smile on our loves and, while thou drawest the Blue curtains of the sky, scatter thy silver dew On every flower that shuts its sweet eyes In timely sleep. Let thy West Wind sleep on The lake speak silence with thy glimmering eyes, And wash the dusk with silver.@-@Soon, full soo
 SONNET. SINCE there's no help, come let us kiss and part,@-Nay I have done, you get no more of me And I am glad, yea glad with all my heart, That thus so cleanly I myself can free Shake hands for ever, cancel all our vows, And when we meet at any time again, Be it not seen in either of our brows That we one jot of former love retain. Now at the last gasp of Love's latest breath, When his pulse failing, Passion speechless lies, When Faith is kneeling by his bed of death, And Innocence is closing up his eyes, Now if thou would'st, when all have given him over, From death to life thou might'st him yet recover ! 1593. @s Idea. XLII. BEAUTY, THE SYREN. AH, Beauty ! syren, fair enchanting good, Sweet silent rhetoric of persuading eyes Dumb eloquence, whose power doth move the blood, More than the words or wisdom of the wise Still harmony, whose diapason lies Within a brow the key which passions move To ravish sense, and play a world in love. What might I then not do, whose power is such ? What cannot women do that know their power ? What women know it not I fear too much How bliss or bale lies in their laugh or lour ? Whilst they enjoy their happy blooming flower, Whilst Nature decks them in their best attires Of youth and beauty, which the world admires. From Daniel's Complaint of Rosamond 1594 , out of 129 stanza
 sometyme in Normandye there was Full uertuous and deuoute in all hys lyuynge And in almose dedes, he yede in the way of grace, Of Knightlye maners, and manfull in iustynge, A Lordlye parsone, also courtes in euery thynge His dwellynge was at Nauerne vpon sayne At Chrystmas to honoure that holy tyme, Open householde he kept, and to please God was fayne. A feaste he helde vpon a certayne daye Lordes come thyther of greate renowne And as they sate at dyner a knyght gan saye Vnto the Duke, and on hys knees kneled downe My Lorde he sayd, ye be owner of many a towne Yet haye ye no lady, nor none heyre After your dayes to reioyce your grounde Therefore gett youe a princes that ys yonge and fayre. The prose version was printed by Wynkyn de Worde, and bears evident marks of being a direct translation from the French, and not, as was frequently the case, a reduction of the Metrical Romance. Of this prose version there is a copy in the Garrick collection in the British Museum, which was presented to Garrick by Mr. Astell, of Yoxall, in Staffordshire. It consists, as does the copy described by Ames, which is also by Wynkyn de Worde, and extant among Bishop More's books in the public library at Cambridge, D. 5. 2. of twenty-nine leaves, but differs from it inasmuch as a wood print of the Sun at the top of the page, Wynkyn de Worde at the bottom, and his usual devi
 I should know you, and know this man Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant What place this is and all the skill I have Remembers not these garments, nor I know not Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me For, as I am a man, I think this lady To be my child Cordelia. Cor. And so I am, I am. am. Lear. Be your tears wet ? Yes, faith, I pray, weep not If you have poison for me, I will drink it. I know you do not love me for your sisters Have, as I do remember, done me wrong You have some cause, they have not. Cor. No cause, no cause. Lear. Am I in France ? Kent. In your own kingdom, sir. Lear. Do not abuse me. Phys. Be comforted, good madam the great rage, You see, is cured in him and yet it is danger To make him even o'er the time he has lost. Desire him to go in trouble him no more, Till further settling. Cor. Will't please your highness walk ? Lear. You must bear with me Pray now forget and forgive I am old and foolish. 1605. -@King Lear, iv. 7. LXXXIV. DOVER CLIFF. HOW fearful And dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes so low. The crows, and choughs, that wing the midway air, Show scarce so gross as beetles half way down Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade Methinks he seems no bigger than his hea
 chastity, my brother, chastity She that has that is clad in complete steel, And like a quivered nymph with arrows keen May trace huge forests and unharboured heaths, Infamous hills and sandy perilous wilds Where, through the sacred rays of chastity. No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer Will dare to soil her virgin purity. Yea, there where very desolation dwells, By grots and caverns shagged with horrid shades, She may pass on with unblenched majesty, Be it not done in pride, or in presumption. Some say, no evil thing that walks by night, In fog or fire, by lake or moorish fen, Blue meagre hag, or stubborn unlaid ghost That breaks his magic chains at curfew time, No goblin, or swart faëry of the mine, Hath hurtful power o'er true virginity. Do ye believe me yet, or shall I call Antiquity from the old schools of Greece To testify the arms of chastity ? Hence had the huntress Dian her dread bow, Fair silver-shafted queen for ever chaste, Wherewith she tamed the brinded lioness And spotted mountain pard, but set at nought The frivolous bolt of Cupid gods and men Feared her stern frown, and she was queen o' the woods. What was that snaky-headed Gordon shield That wise Minerva wore, unconquered virgin, Wherewith she freezed her foes to congealed  ' And the imperial votaress passed on, In maiden meditation, fancy free, Yet marked I where the bolt of Cupid fell '. -@Midsummer Night's Drea
 the hand, saying, My Oast, Ile goe talke with your wife for my part I thought we had bin friends but seeing her stomacke is so big, and her heart so great, I will see what she will say to me and with that he stept into the kitchin, saying, God speed you Oastis. It must be when you are away then, said she. What is your reason, said the other ? Because God neuer comes where knaues are present. Gip goodly draggletaile, qd. he, had I such a wife, I would present her tallow-face to the deuill for a candle. With that she bent her browes, and like a Fury of hell began to flie at him, saying, Why you gag-tooth Jacke, you blinking companion, get thee out of my kitchin quickly, or with my powdred beefe-broth, I will make your pate as bald as a Fryers. Get me gone, quoth he ? thou shalt not bid me twice out you durty heeles, you will make your husbands haire growe thorow his hood I doubt and with that he got him into the Hall, and sat him downe on the bench by his Oast, to whom he said 'Tis pittie, my Oast, that your aged yeeres that loues quietnesse, should be trou-bled with such a scolding queane. I, God helpe me, God helpe me, quoth the old man, and so went towards the stable which his wife watching, suddenly stept out and gaue Cutbert a @kisse. Within an houre after, the old man craftily called for his Nag to ride to field but as soone as he was gone, Cutbert and his Oastesse were such good friends, that they got into one of Ware-houses, and lockt the doore to them but her husband hauing set a spie for the purpos
 -@H. SUCH, Machine Printer and Pub-lisher, 177, Union Street, Boro'.,-@S.  a Dialogue that has taken place,@@@@@ Between two well known clergymen the other day. This left off branch it belonged to Luther He asked the other how his creed was wrong, He says I'm scoffed at by its vile intruders, So between them both the argument went on. So now, dear friend, I could wish you to tell me, How there is salvation there to be found, In no other church but the Roman Temple, Was I to search the wide world round. Did not our Lord say to his disciples, My peace to all of you I'll leave, Go preach the gospel and teach all nations, That men of all sects they may be saved. Kind sir, to answer that simple question, For your conversion I will make bold Our blessed Lord his disciples ordered, To bring all stray sheep into his fold. The eares of his church he also gave to Peter, To reign triumphant as the scripture tells, And said at all times he would be with her, To defend and guard her from the powers of hell. So my dear friend the scriptures tell us, That Anamagus shall not be adored, Which you in worship do daily practice,@@ @@@@@@If you contract me I'll say no more @@@@Besides, each Sunday at divine service@-It's from the parson these words were told@-That our religion it was the same As the Apostles told us in the days of old. Kind sir, to say that we worship images, It is a falsehood believe me true We only have them within our chapels, To remind us what we for the Lord should do. That we may also take pattern by them, For they were pure, and without spot or stain The imps of Satan, we do defy them, For by this maxim we shall salvation gain. Kind sir, moreover we did discover, That your parsons daily do so explore, That your religion it was the same As the Apostles in the days of yore. But where was your church before Martin Luther Or the Reformation had first began ? It was Bess, and Neddy, and old Harry Tudor, For lust invented that wicked plan. Now friend there is still another objection I have to make to the Roman creed, That is the doctrine you call it Confession, By which the Catholic from sin is freed. I don't believe that the Almighty Ever gave the power to any man, Of forgiving sins by confessing truly, As faith alone is our only plan. Kind sir, that question is easily answered, If you will peruse the 6th chapter of James, Where our blessed Lord his disciples ordered To confess their sins, the truth is very plain. When the keys to Peter and his priest were given, To lock and unlock the gates of heaven, Those sins you shall release, they are set free, And those sins you shall retain, retained shall be. So my dear friend, how can you say it's a libel, Saying we have not got no rule of faith, Wherein you know@ we have got the bible, By which we are guided both early and late. Will it not lead a man unto salvation, As it's surely God's written word, For to confute me in this dictation, I'm sure you cannot be so absurd. Kind sir, how can you say you have a bible, To be your regular rule of faith, When you know well it is so corrupted, From the reformation to the present date. First by King Harry it was invented, And by Martin Luther, and old Cranmer too So by this you are well confuted, As a correct copy you have none it s true. Now friend, I find that all your objections, Unto my questions are very true, Besides, your holy faith it is a perfect one, So while I live I'll it pursue. I see it plainly and very clearly, There is but one Lord, one faith, and one I own, So wh heartfelt joy to embrace it clearly, T will live and die in the Church of 
 HIS BLINDNESS. WHEN I consider how my life is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He, returning, chide ' Doth God exact day-labour, light denied ? ' I fondly ask. But Patience, to prevent That murmur, soon replies ' God doth not need Either man's work, or his own gifts. Who best Bear His mild yoke, they serve Him best. His state Is kingly thousands at His bidding speed, And post o'er land and ocean without rest They also serve who only stand and wait.' -@Milton, Sonnet 19. CLVII. TO MR. LAWRENCE. LAWRENCE, of virtuous father virtuous son, Now that the fields are dank, and ways are mire, Where shall we sometimes meet, and by the fire Help waste a sullen day, what may be won From the hard season gaining ? Time will run On smoother, till Favonius re-inspire The frozen earth, and clothe in fresh attire The lily and rose, that neither sowed nor spun. What neat repast shall feast us, light and choice, Of Attic taste, with wine, whence we may rise To hear the lute well touched, or artful voice Warble immortal notes and Tuscan air ? He who of those delights can judge, and spare To interpose them oft, is not unwise. -@Ib. 20. Son of Henry Lawrence, President of Cromwell's Council the family resided near Horton, where Milton lived after leaving Cam-bridg
 Fryer, that I seeing this prodigall like to starve for want of food, lent him money, not onely to buy him victuals, but also to redeeme his lands and pay his debts, conditionarily that so soone as his debts were paid, that hee should give himselfe freely to mee, to this, here is his hand shewing him the bond now my time is expired, for all his debts are paid, which hee cannot denie. This case is plaine, if it be so that his debts are paid his silence confirmes it said the Divell, therefore give him a iust sentence. I will said Fryer Bacon but first tell me speaking to the gentleman didst thouneveryetgive theDevillany of hismony backe, nor requite him any wayes never had hee any thing of me as yet answered the gentleman then never let him have any thing of thee and thou art free deceiver of mankind, said he speaking to the Devill it was thy bargaine, never to meddle with him so long as hee was indebted to any, now how canst thou demand of him any thing, when he is indebted for all that hee hath to thee, when hee payeth thee thy money, then take him as thy due till then thou hast nothing to doe with him and so I charge thee to be gone. At this, the Devill vanished with great horror, but Fryer Bacon comforted the gen-tleman, and sent him home with a quiet conscience bidding him never to pay the Devils money backe as he tendred his owne safety which he promised for to observ
 spotless muse, like Mary, did contain The boundless Godhead she did well disdain That her eternal verse employed should be On a less subject than eternity And for a sacred mistress scorned to take But her whom God Himself scorned not His spouse to make. It in a kind her miracles did do @A@@@ @@fruitful mother was, and virgin too. How well, blest swan, did fate contrive thy death, And make thee render up thy tuneful breath In thy great mistress' arms ! thou most divine And richest offering of Loretto's shrine ! Where like some holy sacrifice t' expire A fever burns thee, and love lights the fire. Angels, they say, brought the famed chapel there, And bore the sacred load in triumph through the air. 'Tis surer much they brought thee there, and they And thou, their charge, went singing all the way. Pardon, my mother church, if I consent That angels led him when from thee he went, For even in error sure no danger is When joined with so much piety as his. Ah, mighty God, with shame I speak't, and grief, Ah that our greatest faults were in belief! And our weak reason were even weaker yet, Rather than thus our wills too strong for it. His faith perhaps in some nice tenets might Be wrong his life, I'm sure, was in the right. And I myself a Catholic will be, So far at least, great saint, to pray to  became a Roman Catholic, and died ' of a fever at Loretto, being newly chosen canon of that Church,' 1650. † ' The tact and sweetness of the plea for saintship, the sudden passion of invocation, the modest yet fervent prayer at the close, all these are felicities of the first order of rhetorical poetry.'@ Gosse.
 tyme after that, this lady was demaunded of her fader, the duke of Bourgone, which gaue hym her wyl-lyngly. And then theyr bry@dale was kepte honourably, which were to longe to write. Howe the duke of Normandye with grete royalte broughte his wyfe, the doughter of the duke of Burgone, in to Roan in Normandye, after he had maryed her. AFTER that the forsayd duke had maryed the sayd ladye, he brought her with a grete company of barons, knyghtes, and ladyes, with grete tryumphe and glorye, into the lande of Normandye, and in the cyte of Roan, in the whiche cyte she was honourably receyued, and with grete melodye and there was grete amyte betwene the Bourgonyons and the Normans, which I lete passe for to come the soner to my mater. The forsayd duke and duchesse lyued togyder the space of xviii yere with-out any childe. Whether it were Godde's wyl it sholde be so, or it were thrughe theyr own defaulte, I can not juge, for it were better other whyle that some people had no chylderne,@ and also it were better for the fader and the moder to gete no chyldren, thenne to lacke of chastysynge, the chyldren and fader and moder sholde al go to the deuyll yet was this duke and duchesse deuout people, which loved and drede God, and gave grete almesse and what tyme this duke wolde meddle with his lady, he euer prayed to God to sende hym a chylde, to honoure and serue God, and to multyply a
 wearing Virtue's livery-smile, Prone the distressèd to relieve, And little trespasses forgive, With income not in Fortune's power, And skill to make a bus@y hour, With trips to town life to amuse, To purchase books, and hear the news, To see old friends, brush off the clown, And quicken taste at coming down, Unhurt by sickness' blasting rage, And slowly mellowing in age, When Fate extends its gathering gripe, Fall off like fruit grown fully ripe, Quit a worn being without pain, Perhaps to blossom soon again. . . . Thus, thus I steer my bark, and sail On even keel with gentle gale At helm I make my reason sit, My crew of passions all submit. If dark and blustering prove some nights, Philosophy puts forth her lights Experience holds the cautious glass, To shun the breakers, as I pass, And frequent throws the wary lea@@@d, To see what dangers may be hid And once in seven years I'm seen At Bath or Tunbridge, to careen. Though pleased to see the dolphins play, I mind my compass and my way With store sufficient for relief, And wisely still prepared to reef, Nor wanting the dispersive bowl Of cloudy weather in the soul, I make may heaven propitious se
 laude and thankes to God creature of Heuen and erthe, that it hath pleased the to forgyue me myne abhomynable and grete synnes thrughe so lytell and lyght penaunce that I haue done therefore, whan the pope, the emperour and the doughter, and all that were there present herde Robert speke thus swetely, they were all heer of gretely enioyed and had grete meruayll of themperoure seynge his noble valyaunce vertue and curtesye that in hym was and wolde haue gyuen hym his doughter to wyfe, but the heremyte wolde not it sholde be so wherfore euery man departed and wente home. How Robert tourned agayne to Rome for to marye the Emperour's doughter by the commaundement and wyll of God. Now the storye telleth as after that Robert had re-myssyon of his synnes and was gone towarde his countre, than out of Rome God commaunded hym that he sholde tourne agayne to Rome and marye the emperour's doughter, whiche loued hym passyngly well, and he sholde haue by her a sone wherby the Crysten beleue sholde be encreased and fortefyed and defended. Robert at the commaundement of God turned agayne a Rome and maryed themperour's doughter with grete tryumphe and solace, for themperour and all the Romayns were therof very glad, this brydale was royally kepte and euery man that se Robert loued hym aboue all other and the people sayd one to anothe
 etc. , Spanish America. This testimony is all in support of the theory of the natural law I have referred to. In the case of Anglo-Saxon America, this fact is confirmed in no less striking a manner Canadians migrate to Manitoba, and, under certain restric-tions imposed by political considerations, to Minnesota and Michigan New Englanders, New Yorkers, and Pennsylvanians colonize Ohio, Indiana, and so westward, beyond the Mississippi. Virginians and North Carolinians overflow into Kentucky and Tennessee and those States, in turn, into Missouri and Arkansas. Few, a very few, Ver-monters are to be found in Georgia Louisianians do not remove up the Mississippi River, and yet it would seem natural for them to have done so, especially in the days before railroads Californians@- the forty-niners -@are Anglo-Saxons, Irish, people from the New Eng-land and Middle States@-@in fine, from regions due east of the Golden State. There are exceptions to this, as to all other rules, but they are trifling, and prove, rather than disprove, the truth of the general state-ment. The fact that we find English, French, Dutch, and Spanish creoles in the West Indies is just such an exception, and the additional fact that the English and Dutch thrive least, the French but a little better, and that the Spaniards are only to a slight extent more firmly placed in latitudes that, by the provisions of natural law, belong to the African and the native of India, abundantly proves, to my way of thinking, how inevitably, in the course of time, the white invaders will gradually disappear@-@not entirely, perhaps, but to such a degree that their exceptional presence will emphasize the significance of the few-ness of their number. This process of elimination is going on now. The English are with-drawing from the islands the annual number of deaths among Eng-lish creoles exceeds the births. This decrease in the total number of white creoles is more marked in the British Islands than in the French, and more noticeable still if the comparison be made between the first-named colonies and the Spanish possessions. On the other hand, Africans and Hindus are rapidly multiplying@-@the negroes with sta
 when they were brought into Cheap-side, there with great wonder they beheld the shops of the Gold-smiths and on the other side, the wealthy Mercers whose shops shined with all sorts of coloured silkes in Watling-street they viewed the great number of Drapers in Saint Martins, Shoomakers at Saint Nicholas Church, the flesh shambles at the end of the old Change, the Fish-mongers in Candleweek-street, the Weauers then came into the Iewes-street, where all the Iewes did inhabite then came they to Blackwel-hall, where the Country Clothiers did vse to meete. Afterwards they proceeded, and came to S. Pauls Church, whose steeple was so hie, that it seemed to pierce the clowdes, on the top whereof, was a great and mighty Weather-cocke, of cleane siluer, the which not-withstanding seemed as small as a sparrowtomens eyes, it stood so exceeding high, the which goodly Weather-cocke was afterwards stolne away, by a cunning Cripple, who found meanes one night to clime vp to the top of the steeple, and tooke it downe with the which, and a great summe of money which he had got together by begging in his life time, he builded a gate on the North side of the City, which to this day is called Cripple-gate. From thence they went to the Tower of London, which was builded by Iulius Caesar, who was Emperour of Rome. And there they beheld salt and wine, which had lyen thereeuersince the Romanes inuaded this Land, which was many yeeres before our Sauiour Christ w
 STREAM OF  THE STREAM OF LIFE. IS it, that life hath sown her joys so thick We can't thrust in a single care between ? Is it, that life has such a swarm of cares The thought of death can't enter for the throng ? Is it, that time steals on with downy feet, Nor wakes indulgence from her golden dream ? To-day is so like yesterday, it cheats We take the lying sister for the same. Life glides away, Lorenzo, like a brook For ever changing, unperceived the change. In the same brook none ever bathed him twice, To the same life none ever twice awoke. We call the brook the same the same we think Our life, though still more rapid in its flow Nor mark the much, irrevocably lapsed And mingled with the sea. Or shall we say Retaining still the brook to bear us on That life is like a vessel on the stream ? In life embarked we smoothly down the tide Of time descend, but not on time intent, Amused, unconscious of the gliding wave Till on a sudden we perceive a shock We start, awake, look out what see we there ? Our brittle bark is burst on Charon's shore. -@Young's Night Though
MY HELEN  Helen is the fairest flower, That ever graced the sun or shade, Or deck'd with charms the lover's bo@wer, The desert wild, or sunny shade, Her bosoms fairer than the snow, Or April showers or May morns breath, Then moonlight rays or ruby's glow, Than weeping lily closed in death. First I loved William and then I loved John, But now I love Thomas he is a clever young man, With his white cotton stockings, and his high anckled shoes, He wears his velvet jacket, like a flash Lad he goes. For fiddling and dancing is all my delight, And keeping flash company has ruined me quite, Boys and a great many more, If I had not kept bad company, I never had heen so poor. So take this yellow handkerchief in remembrance of me, And when it's round your neck love, and your flash company Dry up those briney tears and don't look so sad, For there are many more flash Lads always to be had. Here is adieu to your judges and juries you are too severe, You have banished my true love from me I declare, May the rocks run water, and the rivers run dry, If ever I prove false to the girl that loves I. If the wars should come again love, what would old England say, They would wish for the transports, they have sent far away, They would wish for transports, to return back again, To fight for old England their right to  and Son, late Russell, Printers   Moor street,  My Helen is, Her azure eyes when cast above, Is brighter than the starry sky, Her mellow voice in notes of love, First raised my soul to bliss on high, Her cheeks they mock the rose's bloom, Her dear, dear lips, the coral's hue, Her breath, rich India's choice perfume, Her breast is tender, kind and true. My Helen is, c. No other charms can rival these, No other lips such sweets disclose, No other heart hath power to please, Poor Helen is a thornless rose, Sportive fancy paints her near me, My memery ever will retain, Thoughts of her I'd wish to cheer me, Through this pilgrimage of pain. My Helen is, 
 rode him faire beside, Upon a lowly Asse more white then snow, Yet she much whiter but the same did hide Under a vele, that wimpled was full low And over all a blacke stole shee did throw As one that inly mourned, so was she sad, And heavie sate upon her palfrey slow Seemed in heart some hidden care she had, And by her, in a line, a milkewhite lambe she lad. So pure and innocent, as that same lambe, She was in life and every vertuous lore And by descent from Royall lynage came Of ancient Kinges and Queenes, that had of yore Their scepters stretcht from East to Westerne shore, And all the world in their subjection held Till that infernall feend with foul uprore Forwasted all their land, and them expeld Whom to avenge she had this Knight from far compeld. Behind her farre away a Dwarfe did lag, That lasie seemd, in being ever last, Or wearied with bearing of her bag Of needments at his backe. Thus as they past, The day with cloudes was suddeine overcast, And angry Jove an hideous storme of raine Did poure into his Leman's lap so fast, That everie wight to shrowd it did constrain And this faire couple eke to shroud themselves were fain. Enforst to seeke some covert nigh at hand, A shadie grove not farr away they spide, That promist ayde the tempest to withstand Whose loftie trees, yclad with sommers pride, Did spred so broad, that heavens light did hide, Not perceable with power of any star
 case, are not sufficient to keepe men in awe, it is indeed high time to haue sharper punishment for them. With that Hodgekins vnmannerly interrupted the King, saying in broad Northerne speech, Yea gude faith, mai Liedg, the faule eule of mai saule, gift any thing will keepe them whiat, till the karles be hanged by the cragge. W@hat the dule care they for boaring their eyne, sea lang as they may gae groping vp and downe the Country like fause lizar lownes, begging and craking ? The King smiling to heare this rough-hewne fellow make this reply Content thee Hodgekins, for we will have redresse for all and albeit that hanging of men was never seene in England, yet seeing the corrupt world is growne more bold in all wickednesse, I thinke it not amisse to ordain this death for such malefactors and peculiarly to the towne of Halifax I giue this pri-uilege, That whosoever they finde stealing their Cloth, being taken with the goods, that without further iudge-ment, they shall be hanged vp. Thus said our King I haue granted what you re-quest, and if hereafter you find any other thing that may be good for you, it shall be granted for no longer would I desire to liue among you, then I have care for the good of the Common-wealth at which words ended, the king rose from his Royall Throne, while the Clothiers on their knees prayed for both his health, and happy successe, and shewed themselves most thankefull for his Highnesses fauour. His Maiestie bending his body 
 Tradesmen, whose hands were to them in stead of lands, notwithstanding God raised againe the fame of this man, both by his great wealth, and also in his pos-terity, whose eldest son Henry, the Kings god-son, be-came afterward the Maior of London, who was the first Maior that euer was in that City, who gouerned the same 23 yeeres and then his son Roger Fitz-allen was the second Maior. The princely pleasures that in Worcester were shewn the King, were many and maruelous, and in no place had his Maiesty receiued more delight then here for the which at his departure he did shew himselfe very thankefull. Now when his Grace had thus taken view of all his good townes Westward, and in that progresse had visited these Clothiers, he returned to London, with great ioy of his Commons. How Hodgekins of Hallifax came to the Court, and complained to the King, that his priuiledge was nothing worth, because when they found any of-fender, they could not get a hangman to execute him and how by a Fryer a gin was deuised to chop off mens heads of it selfe. Chap. 8. AFTER that Hodgkins had got the priuiledge for the towne of Halifax, to hang vp such theeues as stole their cloth in the night, presently without any further iudge-ment, all the Clothiers of the towne were exceeding glad, and perswaded themselues, that now their goods would be safe all night, without watching them at al
 the snakes that they rear, How they hiss in their hair, And the sparkles that flash from their eyes ! Behold a ghastly band, Each a torch in his hand ! Those are Grecian ghosts that in battle were slain, And unburied remain Inglorious on the plain. Give the vengeance due To the valiant crew Behold how they toss their torches on high, How they point to the Persian abodes And glittering temples of their hostile gods ! ' The princes applaud with a furious joy And the king seized a flambeau with zeal to destroy Thais led the way, To light him to his prey, And, like another Helen, fired another Troy ! 7. Thus, long ago, Ere heaving bellows learned to blow, While organs yet were mute, Timotheus, to his breathing flute And sounding lyre, Could swell the soul to rage or kindle soft desire. At last divine Cecilia came, Inventress of the vocal frame The sweet enthusiast, from her sacred store, Enlarged the former narrow bounds, And added length to solemn sounds, With Nature's mother-wit, and arts unknown before. Let old Timotheus yield the prize, Or both divide the crown He raised a mortal to the skies, She drew an angel down ! -@Dryd
 war, or battle's sound, Was heard the world around The idle spear and shield were high up hung The hookèd chariot stood Unstained with hostile blood The trumpet spake not to the armèd throng And kings sat still with awful eye, As if they surely knew their sovran Lord was by. But peaceful was the night Wherein the Prince of Light His reign of peace upon the earth began The winds, with wonder whist, Smoothly the waters kissed, Whispering new joys to the mild ocean, Who now hath quite forgot to rave, While birds of calm sit brooding on the charmèd wave. The stars, with deep amaze, Stand fixed in steadfast gaze. Bending one way their precious influence, And will not take their flight For all the morning light, Or Lucifer that often warned them thence But in their glimmering orbs did glow, Until their Lord Himself bespake, and bid them go. And, though the shady gloom Had given day her room, The sun himself withheld his wonted speed, And hid his head for shame, As his inferior flame The new enlightened world no more should need He saw a greater Sun appear Than his bright throne or burning axletree could bea
 LL in the Downs the fleet was moor'd, The streamers waving in the wind, When Black-eyed Susan came on board, O where shall I my true love find Tell me ye jovial sailors tell me true, If my sweet William sails among your crew. William, who high upon the yard, Rock'd by the billows to and fro, Soon as her well known voice he heard, He sighed and cast his eyes below The cords glide swiftly thro' his glowing hands, And quick as lightning on the deck he stands.@@ the sweet lark, high poised in air, Shuts close his pinions to his breast, chance his mate's shrill call he hear, And drops at once into his nest noblest captain of the British fleet, ght envy William's lips those kisses sweet. Susan, Susan, lovely dear, My vows shall ever true remain,@@@@@@@@ Let me kiss off that falling tear, We only part to meet again. Change as ye like, ye winds, my mind shall be, The faithful compass that still points to thee, Believe not what the landsmen say Who tempts with doubts thy constant mind, They tell thea sailors when away, In every port a mistress find, Yes, yes, believe them when they tell thee so For thou art present whereso'er I go. If to fair India's coast we sail, Thy eyes are seen in diamonds bright, Thy breath is Afric's spicy gale, Thy skin is ivory so white Thus every beauteous object that I view, Wakes in my soul some charms of pretty Sue. OH ! IF I HAD SOME One to love Me. O H ! if I had some one to love me, @@My troubles, my trials, who'd share, One to love and little reprove me, And lesson my heart of its care. Oh ! if I had some one who'd love me, To cherish, and comfort me too, The bright shining stars then above me, Would prove me great happiness too. For 'tis love that's the bliss of creation, Only love that's in nature sublime, To the highest or lowly of stâtion, Love to all is a feeling divine Oh ! if@ I had, @c. Oh ! if I had some one to love me, Then nature more lovely would beam, The flow'rets sweet perfume then round@ me Would hallow and gladden the scene.@@ Oh ! if I had some one to love me, Whose heart and whose soul coul@d be mine Then I'd praise the blest powers above me@ For my life made truly divine. For 'tis love that's the bliss of creation, Only love that's in nature sublime, To the highest or lowly of station, To be loved is a feeling divine. Oh ! if I had, @c@@@@. THE CANADIAN BOAT SONG. F AINTLY as tolls the evening chime, Our voices keep tune and our oars keep time, Soon as the woods on shore look dim, We'll sing at St. Ann's our parting hymn. Row, brothers row, the stream runs fast, The rapids are near, and the day-light's past. Why should we yet our sails unfurl ? There is not a breath the blue waves to curl, But when the wind blows off the shore, Oh sweetly we'll rest our weary oar. Blow breezes, blow, the stream runs fast, The rapids are near and the daylight's past. Uttawa tide ! this trembling moon, Shall see us float o'er thy surges soon, Saint of this green isle hear our prayer. Grant us cool heavens and favouring air Blow, breezes, blow, c. .290 Sue. Tho' battle force me from thy arms, Let not my charming Susan mourn, Tho' cannons roar, yet free from harm, William shall to his dear return Love turns aside the balls that round me fly, Lest precious tears should drop from Susan's eye. The boatswain gave the dreadful word, The sails their swelling bosoms spread, No longer must she stay on board, They kissed, she sigh'd, he hung his head, Her less'ning boat unwilling rows to land, Adieu, she cries, and waves her lily han
 was born in@ Birkin, Yorkshire, April 7, 1836. His early education was acquired first at home under his father, the rector of Birkin, then at Rugby, where he was sent at the age of fourteen. In 1855 he entered Balliol College, Oxford, and came under the in@fluence of Jowett, afterwards famous as Master of Balliol and translator of Plato. Though he matured early, Green was not a brilliant student. On the contrary, he appeared to be indolent and sluggish. No man, wrote one of his fellow-students in 1862, is driven with greater diffi@culty to@ work not to his taste.... He wrote some of the best college essays he never sent them in on the right day, and might generally be seen on the Monday pondering over essays which every one else had sent in on the Friday night. These traits, however, as it proved later, were the index not of a vagrant mind, but of in@dependence of thought and of preoccupation with weightier matters. To quote again from the tribute of a f@ellow-student On everything he said or wrote there was stamped the impress of a forcible individuality, a mind that thought for itself, and whose thoughts had the rugged strength of an original character wherein grim@ness was mingled with humor, and practical shrewdness with a love for abstract speculation. In the end, his solid qualities of mind and char@acter made so strong an impression upon the University authorities that in 1860 he was elected fellow of Balliol. At the same time he became lecturer on ancient and modern history. Though from the beginning of his student life he had been drawn to an academic career and especially to the study of philosophy, he was now for a period undecided what to make his life-work. At one time he thought of going into journalism in India. In 1864, having accepted a place with the Royal Commission on Middle Class Schools, he prepared a valuable report upon the organiza@tion of high schools and their relation to the univer@sity. Finally, however, in 1866, his indecision was brought to an end. Obtaining an appoint@ment in that year to a position on the teaching staff of Balliol College, he settled down to the work of a tutor in philosophy. When Jowett was made Master of Balliol, Green became, un@der him, the responsible manager of the college, performing the manifold small duties of the po@sition with patience, thoroughness, and tact. In 1871 he was married to Miss Charlotte Sy@monds, sister of John Addington Sy@monds. Twice Green was candidate for a professor@ship once in 1864 when he applied for the chair of moral philosophy at St. Andrews, and again in 1867 when the Waynflate professorship of moral and metaphysical philosophy fell vacant at Ox@ford. In both cases he was unsuccessful. It was not until 1878, by his election to the Whyte's pro@fessorship of moral philosophy, that he obtained the position and the independence he had long deserved. His enjoyment of the honor was brief. He died of blood-poisoning, after an ill@ness of only ten days, March 26, 1882. Green's character was compounded of a variety of elements. The shyness and reserve character@istic of many cultivated Englishmen, was accent@uated in his case by a natural austerity and an absorption in serious thought. But though his temper was puritanic and inclined to moroseness, there was no sourness or cynicism in it. If, he wrote to Miss Symonds, I am rather a mel@ancholy bird, given to physical fatigue and de@pression, yet I have never known f@or a moment what it was to be weary of life, as the youth of this age are fond of saying that they are. The world has always seemed very good to me. Grim though he might be outwardly, he had a keen sense of humor and a warmth of interest in his fellows that made him, for those who broke through his reserve, a charming companion. His most characteristic quality was elevation of mind. In the essay that is here reprinted he speaks of that aspiring pride which arises from the sense of walking in intellect on the necks of a subject crowd. Something of this elevation, this aloof@ness from the vulgar, characterized all of his ut@terances and gave to them at times a solemn fer@vency akin to that of the Hebrew prophets. This trait is finely portrayed in the following descrip@tion of the tutor Grey a@ thin disguise for Green in Mrs. Ward's 'Robert Elsmere ' In after years memory could always recall to him at will the face and figure of the speaker, the massive head, the deep eyes sunk under the brows, the midland accent, the make of li@mb and features which see@med to have some suggestion in them of the rude strength and simplicity of a peasant ancestry and then the nobility, the fire, the spiritual beauty flashing through it all! Here, indeed, was a man on whom his fellows might lean, a man in whom the generation of spiritual force was so strong and continuous that it over@flow@ed of necessity into the poorer, barrener lives aro@und him, kindling and enriching. Green's contributions to philosophy were part@ly constructive, partly and perhaps mainly crit@ical and destructive. On the critical side, his greatest effort was his attack upon the philosophy of Hume in two masterly Introductions to an edition @of Hume's 'Works,' published in 1874-5. English philosophical thinking, so Green held, had stuck fast in the scepticism of Hume. Such forward movement in thought as there had been since the 18th Century, had come mainly through the writings of men like Wordsworth and Shelley--men who having seen deeply into life, had expressed themselves in imaginative, not in philosophical ways. To set the stagnant tide of speculative thinking in motion, involved a two-fold task on one side the breaking down of the barriers erected by the sensationalist and materialist schools of the 17th and 18th centuries, and on the other side the letting in of a current of fresh ideas from some source outside of England. The first, or destructive, task Green performed with remarkable success in the two Introduc@tions. For the new and truer ideas which were to displace the old, he naturally looked to Ger@many, whose methods of research were just com@ing into vogue at Oxford through the influence of Pattison and Jowett. And since to specula@tive thinkers of that time German philosophy meant the philosophy of Hegel, Green's funda@mental conceptions were derived by Hegelian modes of thinking. In other words, he was a @neo-Hegelian. But, as his biographer notes, he never committed himself unreservedly to the He@gelian credo. While he regarded Hegel's sys@tem as the 'last word of philosophy,' he did not occupy himself with the exposition of it, but with the reconsideration of the elements in Kant of which it was the development. That is, he was a neo-Kantian as well as a neo-Hegelian. Of his constructive thinking in these channels the most complete embodiment is his 'Prolegomena to Ethics.' Though naturally his contributions to philos@ophy are first in bulk and importance, Green's writings cover a considerable range of subjects. Listed in the order of publication, they are as follows 'The Force of Circumstances,' pub@lished @pers_, 1858 'An Esti@mate of the Value and Influence of Prose Fic@tion,' published as a prize essay, 1862 'The Phil@osophy of Aristotle' and 'Popular Philosophy in its relation to Life,' _North British Review_, Sept., 1866, and March, 1868 Introductions to 'Hume's Treatise of Human Nature' 1874-5 'The Grad@ing of Secondary Schools,' _Journal of Education_, May, 1877 Review of E. Caird's 'Philosophy of Kant,' _Academy_, Sept. 22, 1877 'Mr. Spencer on the Relations of Subject and Object,' _Contem@porary Review_, Dec., 1877 'Mr. Spencer on the Independence of Matter,' _ibid._, March, 1878 'Mr. Lewes' Account of Experience,' _ibid._, July, 1878 review of J. Caird's 'Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion,' _Academy_, July 10, 1880 'Answer to Mr. Hodgson,' _Contemporary Review_, January, 1881 review of J. Watson's 'Kant and his English Critics,' _Academy_, Sep@tember 17, 24, 1881 'Liberal Legislation and Freedom of Control,' 1881 'The Work to be done by the New Oxford High School,' 1882 'Prolegomena to Ethics,' 1883 'The Witness of God' and 'Faith' delivered in 1870 and 1877, and at the time printed for private circulation , 1884. All of the foregoing, with the exception of the 'Prolegomena to Ethics,' are included in the 'Works' edited by R. L. Nettleship 3 Vols., 1885, 2d Ed. 1889, Longmans . The 'Works' contain, in addition, the following writings not previously published An essay on 'The Influ@ence of Civilization on Genius' an essay on 'Christian Dogma' an article on 'Mr. Lewes' Ac@count of the Social Medium,' written for the _Contemporary Review_, but not used four lec@tures or addresses on the New Testament four lectures on 'The English Commonwealth' a ser@ies of lectures on 'The Philosophy of Kant,' on 'Logic' and on 'The principles of Political Obli@gations' a lecture on 'The Different Senses of Freedom as Applied to Will and to the Moral Progress of Man' and a fragment on 'Immortal@ity.' @@Aside from occasional references to poetry and art in his philosophical writings, as, for example, in the opening paragraphs of the 'Prolegomena,' the essay on fiction here reprinted is Green's only venture in the field of aesthetic criticism. When we remember that it was one of his earliest pro@ductions, having been submitted for the Chancel@lor's prize in 1862, when Green was but 26 years of age, the maturity of both style and contents seems remarkable. It is in fact a monumental piece of literary criticism, sufficient to establish the reputation of many a lesser writer. At the same time, however, there is about it an air of constraint which shows that the author was not at ease in this kind of speculation. He was fencing, so to speak, with his left hand. His mind was so absorbed in the metaphysical, ethical, and re@ligious aspects of experience that upon the aes@thetic as such he had little attention to bestow. When he approached aesthetic problems at all it was for the purpose of obtaining data which he could employ in other fields of thought. He was obviously not in sympathy with the aims of Eng@lish novelists. He had no expert knowledge of the history of fiction in England, and no knowl@edge at all, so far as appears, of its history in other countries. Probably he misunderstood the relation, in certain particulars, of the novel to the epic. Nevertheless, his appreciation of concrete works of art was so genuine and profound, his insight so clear, his expressed judgments so can@did, that any contact of his mind with art, liter@ary or other, could not fail to be illuminating. Whatever its limitations, the essay has at least one distinguishing merit in it a fundamental principle of criticism is applied with @merciless rigor to the solution of a literary problem. The products of such a method are certain to be interesting and valuable. Whether we agree with the author's conclusions or not, we can at least see whence he derives them and feel the stimulus which always co@mes from the spectacle of a pow@erful mind grappling in deadly earnest with mo@mentous questions of art @@@@@@. AN ESTIMA@TE of the Value and Influence of Works of Fiction in Modern Times I. PRINCIPLES OF ART  writings which  to the emotions from those of which the im@mediate object is the conveyance of knowledge, by applying to the former a term of conveniently loose meaning, works of imagination. Of the kinds included in the wide denotation of this term there are three, between which it seems difficult at first sight to draw a definite line which appeal to similar feelings, and excite a similar interest, in the different ages to which each is appropriate. These are the epic poem, the drama, and the novel. Each purports to be, in some sort, a reflex of human life and action, as obeying certain laws and tending to a certain end. In each men are represented, not as at rest, or in contemplative isolation, but in co-op@eration or collision. In each there is a combina@tion of two elements, an outer element of inci@dent, an inner of passion and character. In view of these common features, we might be tempted at first sight to suppose the difference between the three kinds to be merely one of form, merely the difference between the vehicle of prose and the vehicle of metre. We shall find, however, on deeper inquiry, that to the true artist, who does not find his materials in the world, but cre@ates them according to the inner laws by which the world and himself are governed, the vehicle is not more a part of his creation than the im@passioned truth which it conveys. Here, as else@where, form and substance are inseparable and the difference of form that distinguishes the nov@el from the other kinds of composition which it seems for the present to have superseded, sym@bolises, or rather is identical with, a different potency in the art by which the substance is  in its most general sense the substance and matter of all fine art is @the same, issuing from the common source of the human desire for  rises@@@@@@@@ above the stage of imitation, the higher is his art, the more elevating its influence on those who can enter into its spirit. If the landscape-painter does nothing more than represent nature as seen by the outward eye, the vulgar objection against looking at pictures-- I can see as fine a view as this any day --is unquestionably valid. But if the painter is anything better than a photog@rapher, he does far more than this. He brings nature before us, as we have seen it, perhaps, only once or twice in our lives, under the influ@ence of some strong emotion. He does that for  to each medium of utterance is molded by intercourse with that medium, and acquires an individuality which is not directly reducible to terms of any other region of aesthetic fancy. Feeling, in short, is modified in be@coming communicable and the feeling which has be@come communicable in music is not capable of re-trans@lation into the feeling which has become communicable in painting. Thus the arts have no doubt in common a human and even rational content--rational in so far as the feelings which are embodied in expression, for expression's sake, arise in connection with ideas and purposes but each of them has separately its own pe@culiar physical medium of expression and also a whole region of modified feeling or fancy which constitutes the material proper to be expressed in the medium and according to the laws of each particular art. --B. Bosanquet, 'The Relation of the Fine Arts to One Another' _Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society_  of spiritual exaltation in which we feel that we are greater than we know --moments which we can remember, and of which the mere memory may be the light of our lives, but which no act of our own will can bring back. It is not till the distinction has been appreciated between nature as it is and nature as we make it to be, between that which we see and that which having not seen we love, that any branch of art can be reckoned in its proper value.  it would no doubt  to say that nature is simply and altogether that which we make it to be. Modern philosophy has discarded the language which represented our knowledge of things as the result of impressions and the transmission of images. 2 If we still not only speak but think of ourselves as primarily passive and in contact with an alien world, this arises simply from the difficulty of conceiving a pure spontaneous activity. Driven from the crude imagination which found the primary con@dition of knowledge in the reception of ideas from without, common sense took refuge in the more refined hypothesis of unknown  which cause our sensations, and through sensa@tions our knowledge. 3 But this standing-ground has been swept away by the consideration that such a cause may be found within as well as without, in the laws of the subject's activity as well as in objects confessedly beyond the reach of cognition. Our ultimate analysis can find no element in knowledge which is not supplied by ourselves in conformity to a ruling law, or which exists independently of the action of human thought.h of man's own crea@tion, it is so in a different way from the world of art and of philosophy. Thought is indeed its parent, but thought in its primary stage fails to recognize it as its own, fails to transfer to it its own attributes of univer@sality, and identity in difference. It sees outward objects merely in their diversity and isolation. It seeks to penetrate nature by endless dichot@omy, glorying in that dissection of unity which is the abdication of its own  Life, says Professor Dewey 'Studies in Logical Theory,' p. 81 , proposes to maintain at all hazards the unity of its own process. And in a foot-note he adds Professor James's satisfaction in the contemplation of bare pluralism, of disconnection, of radical having-noth@ing-to-do-with-one-another, is a case in point. The  sources of personal and particular pleasures and pains and thus induces the sense of bondage, of collision with a world in which it has not yet learnt to find itself. It places the end of human life not in harmony with the law which is the highest form of itself, but in happi@ness, _i.@e._, in the extraction of the greatest pos@sible amount of enjoyment from a world to which it seems to be accidentally related. The view of things corresponding to this stage of thought is what we commonly call their outward aspect. It is the aspect of matter-of-fact, of logic, of mere morality, as opposed to that of art, of philosophy, and religion. 5. The perfection of  latter and higher view  the absolute fusion of thought and things. Its full attainment is a new creation of the world. Yet it is but the discovery of a relationship which was from the beginning, the adoption by thought of a child which was never other than its own. satisfaction points to an aesthetic attitude in which the brute diversity becomes itself one interesting object and thus unity asserts itself in its own denial. When discords are hard and stubborn, and intellectual and practical unification are far to seek, nothing is com@moner than the device of securing the needed unity by recourse to an emotion which feeds on the very brute variety. Religion and art and romantic affection are full of  by the analogy of human design, to which every hour's conversation testifies, is the evidence that to the ordinary man nature presents itself not as something external, but, like a friend, as an@other himself. The true conquest of nature is but the completion of the reconciliation thus an@ticipated in the everyday language and conscious@ness of mankind. When the mind has co@me to see in the endless flux of outward things, not a succession of isolated phenomena, but the reflex of its own development into an infinite variety of laws on a basis of identity--when the laws of nature are raised to the character of laws which regulate admiration and love--when the exper@iences of life are held together in a medium of pure emotion, and the animal element so fused with the spiritual as to form one organization through which the same impulse runs with unim@peded energy--then man has made nature his own, by becoming a conscious partaker of the reason which animates him and it.@ 5 The  form, in Wordsworth's lines And I have felt A presence that disturbs me with the joy Of elevated thoughts a sense sublime Of something far more deeply interfused, Whose dwelling is the light of setting suns, And the round ocean and the living air, And the blue sky, and in the mind of man A motion and a spirit, that impelsnment of this consummation is the end of life but it is an end that can never be fully realised, while dualism remains a necessary condition of humanity. To most men it is as a land very far off, of which occasional glimpses are caught from some specula@r mount of philosophic or poetic thought. It can only approach realisation through the operation of a power which can pen@etrate the whole man, and act on every moment of his life. But that power, which in the form of religion can make every meal a sacrament, and transform human passion into the likeness of di@vine love, is represented at a lower stage, not only by the unifying action of speculative philos@ophy, but by the combining force of art.  level, is more than @t@o@r of imitations. 6 Abridgment, selection, com@bination, are the necessary instruments of his craft and by their aid he introduces harmony and order into the confused multiplicity of  through all things. Therefore am I still A lover of the meadows and the woods, And mountains.  is made by God, as I think that we may say--for no one else can be the maker?--No.--There is another which is the work of the carpenter?--Yes.--And the work of the painter is a third?--Yes?--Beds, then, are of three kinds, and there a@re three artists who superintend them  of things a new view, in which thought already finds a resting place. Just as strong emotion tends to make all known exist@ence the setting of a single form just as intense meditation sees in all experience the manifesta@tion of a single idea so the artist, even if he be merely telling a story, or painting a common landscape, puts some of his materials in a relief, and combines all in a harmony, which the un@taught eye does not find in the world as it is. He presents to us the facts in the one case, the outward objects in the other, as already acted upon by @thought and emotion. In this sense ev@ery artist, instead of copying nature, idealises it. In degree and mode, however, the idealisation varies infinitely in the various kinds of art. It is by considering the height to which it is car@ried in the epic poem and the drama that we shall best appreciate its limitations in the  Historically it seems to have originated in the records of ancestral heroism, which passed from mouth to mouth in metre, as the natural form of oral communication in an unlettered age.  of them.--God, whether from choice or from necessity, made one bed in nature and one only two  out@ward form penetrated by a new spirit, which converts the narrative into the poem. There is no need to do violence to historical probability by supposing that Homer was a conscious artist, or that he imagined himself to be doing anything else than representing events as they happened. We have simply to notice that in him facts have become poetry, and to ask ourselves what con@stitutes the change. How is it that the epic poet, while holding up the mirror to nature, yet shows us in the glass a glory which belongs not to nature as we see it, in its material limitations@? The answer is, that though he follows the essen@tial laws of the human spirit, his scene is not the earth we live in. He fills it with actors other than the men who hoard and sleep and feed  be made by God.... Shall we, then, speak of Him as the natural author or maker of the bed?--Yes, he replied inasmuch as by the natural process of crea@tion He is the author of this and of all other things.--And what shall we say of the carpenter--is he not also the maker of the bed?--Yes.--But would you call the painter a creator and maker?--Certainly not.--Yet if he is not the maker, what is he in relation to the bed?--I think, he said, that we may fairly designate him as the imitator of that which the others make.--Good, I said then you call him who is third in the descent from nature an imitator?--Certainly, he said.--And the tragic poet is an imitator, and therefore, like all other imita@tors, he is thrice removed from the king and from the truth.--That appears to be so.--Plato, 'Republic,' X. 597.  which was never present, when gods were more human and men more di@vine--or in heavenly places, and among the pow@ers of the air. The action is simple in proportion to its remoteness from the reality of life, and rapid in proportion to its simplicity. It arises from the operation of the most elementary pas@sions, the wrath of Achilles or the pride of Satan, in collision with an overruling power. For the animal wants and tricks of fortune, which en@tangle the web of man's affairs, it has no place. The animal element, if not banished from view altogether, becomes merely the organ of the rul@ing motions of the spirit and fortune is lost in destiny or providence. Thus the incidents of the narrative cease to be mere incidents. They are held together by passion they are them@selves, so to speak, manifestations of passion working with more and more intensity to the final consummation. Not the laws which regu@late curiosity, but those which regulate hope and awe, are the laws which they have to satisfy.f these characteristics ap@pear more strongly than in the primitive epic. The Homeric poems are still legendary narratives, though narratives uncon@sciously transmuted by the highest art. Tragedy, on the contrary, has no extraneous elements. It implies a conscious effort of the spirit, made for its own sake, to re-create human life according to spiritual laws to transport itself from a world, where chance and appetite seem hourly to give the lie to its self-assertion, into one where it may work unimpeded by anything but the antag@onism inherent in itself and the presence of an overruling law. This result is attained simply by the action of the proper instruments of thought, abstraction and synthesis. The trage@dian presents to us scenes of life, not its contin@uous flow of incident. In Macbeth, for in@stance, there is an hiatus of some years between the earlier and later acts 7 but we are not sensi@ble of the void for the passions which lead to the catastrophe are but the development of those which appear at the beginning, and to the law against which they struggle a thousand years are but as yesterday. Time, however, is but one among many circumstances which the tragedian ignores. The common facts of life as it is, and always must have been, the influence of custom, the transition of passion into mechanical habit, the impossibility of continuous effort, the  ulated to be nine days, with intervals of a week or two between Acts II and III, scenes ii and iii of Act IV, and scenes i and ii of Act V. See _New Shakes@peare Society Publications_, 1877-79. 8  nature and all that results from them, these are excluded from view, and so much only of the material of humanity is retained as can take its form from the action of the spirit, and become a vehicle of pure passion. But the synthesis keeps pace with the abstraction, for the tragedian creates not passions but men. The outer garment, the flesh itself, is stript off from man, that the spirit may be left to re-clothe itself, according to its proper impulses and its proper laws. The false distinctions of dress, of man@ner, of physiognomy, are obliterated, that the true individuality which results from the internal modifications of passion may be seen in clearer outline. These modifications are as infinite and as complex as the spirit of man itself and if the characters of the ancient dramatists, in their broad simplicity, fail to exhibit the finer linea@ments of real life, yet in Shakespeare the varia@tions of pure passion are as numerous and as subtle as those of the fleshly or customary mask by which man thinks that he knows his neighbour. The essential difference lies in the fact that they are variations of the spiritual, not the animal, man that they arise from the qualifications of the spirit by itself, not from its intermixture with matter. It is this which gives tragedy its power over life. The problem of the diabolic nature, of the possibility of a fallen spirit, is not for man to solve. He may be satisfied with the diag@nosis of his own disease, with the knowledge that it is his littleness, not his greatness, that separates him from the divine that not intel@lectual pride, not spiritual self-assertion, but the meanness of his ordinary desires, the degradation of his higher nature to the pursuit of animal ends, keep him under the curse. From this curse tragedy, in its measure, helps to relieve him. It purifies his passions 8 by extricating them from their earthly immersion. For an hour, it may be, or a day, it raises him into a world of absolute ideality, where he may for@get his wants and his vanity, and lose himself in a struggle in which the combatants are the forces of the spirit, and of which the end is that anni@hilation in collision with destiny which is but the blank side of reconciliation with it. And though his sojourn in this region be short, yet, when he falls again, the smell of the divine fire has passed upon him, and he bears about him, for a time at least, among the rank vapours of the earth, some@thing of the freshness and fragrance of the higher  Chap. vi, and, for comment, Butcher's 'Aristotle's Theory of Poetry and Fine Art,' Chapter vi.  as the flight or  of life. The two in@dispensable supports which render this elevation possible, are metrical expression and great situ@ations. In the regeneration the language of the market-place and the morning call may an@swer to the realised harmony of life there may, indeed, be the fifth act of a tragedy in every death-bed there may be no distinction of great or little, high or low. But it is an affectation to confound what shall be with what is. We cannot dissociate ordinary incidents from the petty wants out of which they ordinarily spring, nor common language from the common-place thoughts which it usually expresses. The action in tragedy must be relative to the situation and if the situation be one which we are unable to separate from matter-of-fact associations, neith@er can the action be so separated except by an effort which of itself depresses the soaring spirit. Nor, again, if the action be high-wrought, above the measure of man's ordinary activity, can it find expression in the unrhythmical language@  nor is it always commonplace, as witness, for ex@ample, the more moving and imaginative passages of the English Bible. On this point consult Gummere's 'Beginnings of Poetry,' Chapter ii Rhythm as the Essential Fact of Poetry, especially pp. 56-60 Watts's article 'Poetry' in the Encyclopaedia Britannica and the _Publications of the Modern Language Association_, xx.  wine must not be put in old bottles nor must the motions of disenthralled passion be con@fined in vessels worn by the uses of daily life.  of a great tragedy is almost an impos@sibility in our own time. The age most favour@able to it would seem to be one in which men stand on the edge of an old and but half-known world--as Aeschylus and Sophocles stood on the edge of the mythologic, Shakespeare on that of the feudal world--an age of sufficient culture and reflection for men to be conscious of the glory they have left behind, while yet civilisa@tion has not reached the stage of acquiescence in things as they are, and scepticism as to all be@yond them. Those great situations furnished by the mysterious past, in which passion quits the earth, soon lose their charm, and with the reign of wonder that of tragedy ceases. At Athens it gives place to the new comedy, whose highest boast was to copy present life ô  modern Europe it has yielded to the  saying of Aristophanes, the Grammarian, quoted by Syrianus@ on Hermogenes, IV. 101. It may be trans@lated O Menander and Life! Which of you copies the other? II. THE NOVEL AN INFERIOR FORM OF  did not  in England till the time of Fielding and Rich@ardson, but it had long been in process of for@mation. The seventeenth century at its close had lost the tragic impulse of its youth. The ecstatic hope of a new world, combined with the sad and wondering recollection of the old, which had raised the human spirit to the height of the Shakesperian tragedy, had died out, and the age had become eminently satisfied with itself. Wits, philosophers, and poets, alike were full of the present time. While the wits complimented each other on their superiority to the weaknesses of mankind, they made no scruple of indulging those weaknesses in their own persons. It was part of their business to do so, for it was part of life. The only difference between them and other men was that they were weak and laughed over it, while others were weak and serious. Philosophers congratulated themselves on their new enlightenment but it was an enlightenment which gave them insight into things as they are, not as they are to be. The proper study of man@kind, they held was man man, however, not in his boundless promise, but in the mean per@formance with which they proclaimed themselves satisfied. The poetry of the time was, at best, merely common-sense with ornamentation. It was neither lyrical nor tragic, though it may have tried to be both. It represented man neither as withdrawn into himself, nor as transported into an ideal world of action, but as observing and reasoning on his present affairs. The satire and moral essay were its characteristic forms.  first and best representative of that special style of literature--the only really popular literature of our time--which consists in talking to the public about it@self. Humanity is taken as reflected in the or@dinary life of men and, as thus reflected, it is copied with the most minute fidelity. No at@tempt is made either to @suppress the baser el@ements of man's nature, or to transfigure them by a stronger light than that of the common under@standing. No deeper l@aws are recognised than those which vindicate themselves to the eye of daily observation, no motives purer than the mixed ones which the practical philosopher delights to analyse, no life higher than that which is qualified by animal wants. The reader never finds himself carried into a region where it re@quires an effort to travel, or which is above the existing level of opinion and morality. It is from this levelness with life that the  derives its interest--an interest so nearly the same, barring the absence of plot, with that of the novel, as to lead Macaulay to pronounce Ad@dison the forerunner of the great English novel@ists. 11 The elements of the novel, indeed, already existed in Addison's time, and only required com@bination. Fictitious biography, which may be regarded as its raw material, had been written by Defoe with a life-like reality which has never since been equalled and the popular drama fur@nished plots, in the shape of love stories drawn from present life. Let the adventures of the fic@titious biography, instead of being merely ex@ternal to the man, as in Defoe, be made subserv@ient to that display of character in which Addison had shown himself a master, and let them become steps in the development of a love-plot, and the novel--the novel of the last century, at any  written a novel, on an extensive plan, it would have been superior to any that we possess. As it is, he is entitled to be considered, not only as the greatest of the English essayists, but as the forerunner of the great English novelists. --Macaulay, 'L@ife and writ@ings of Addison.'  and therefore uncreative and prosaic, thought of the age, which produced the novel, such the novel itself continued to be. Man, comfortable and acquiescent, wished to amuse himself by a reflex of the life which he no longer aspired to trans@cend. He wanted to enjoy himself twice over--in act and in fancy or, if the former were denied him, at least to explore in fancy the world of pleasure and excitement, of which circumstances abridged or disturbed his enjoyment in fact. In the smooth tale, generally of love, 12 the nove@list supplied the want.  accidental, and as@@@@@@@ inconsistent with the ro@mantic character which the novel assumed in the hands of Sir Walter Scott. It expresses, however, adequately enough the view which the popular novelists prior to Scott took of their own productions. Cervantes, though in his own great work attaining that rhapsody of grotesqueness which lies on the edge of poetry, had yet es@tablished the idea of the novel as the antithesis of romance. These novelists, accordingly, if they are not always telling the reader like Fielding , seem yet to be always thinking to  themselves, how perfectly natura@l their stories are. It is on this naturalness t@hey pride them@selves and naturalness, in their sense, meant conformity to nature as it is commonly seen. This is the characteristic feature of the class. Whether, like Richardson, they analyse character from within, or, like Miss Austen, develop it in the outward particularities of an unruffled life--whether they describe, like Fielding, the buoy@ancy of a generous animalism, or, like Miss Edge@worth and Miss Burney, the precise decencies of conventional morality--they deal simply with eighteenth-century life as seen by eighteenth-century eyesight. All romantic virtue, all ideal@ised passion, they rigorously eschew. Prudence they make the guide, happiness the end, of life. And they do well. They undertake to copy pres@ent life, and they do so. They have to reflect man's habitual consciousness it is not for them to anticipate a consciousness which has not yet been attained, or to represent man's lower na@ture as absorbed in a spiritual movement which, because we cannot arrest it, we habitually ignore. It is just their deficiency in this respect which gives them their peculiar fascination. Man is not really mere man, though he may think himself so. He is always something potentially, which he is not actually always inadequate to himself and as such, disturbed and miserable. The novel, on the contrary, represents him as being what he vainly tries to be--adequate to himself. It offers to his imagination the full enjoyment of earthly life, unchallenged by obstinate surmises, un@troubled by yearnings after the divine. Ordinary men are satisfied with this en@joyment the high@est are allured by its temptation. The reading public is charmed with the contemplation of its own likeness, twice as natural as life. Its own wisdom, its own wishes, its own vanity, are set before it in little with a completeness and finish which the deeper laws of the universe, vindicat@ing themselves by apparent disorder and misfor@tune, happily prevent from being attained in real life. 13 It is thus pleasantly flattered into con@tentment with itself--a contentment not@ dis@turbed by the occasional censure of practices which good taste condemns as ungraceful, or prudence as prejudicial to happiness. But the man of keener insight, who, instead of wrestlings man would like to live such a rounded and symmetrical life as is portrayed in the novel. He would like to see his wisdom justifying it@self, his vanity triumphant, his selfishness achieving its end and he thinks that his cravings are being satisfied. But the deeper laws of the universe will not be balked, they are lying in wait. And presently when he thinks, good easy man, his little bourgeois world is rounding into the perfect sphere, they spring up in his path, shatter his sugar-candy paradise, and ruthlessly vindi@cate themselves that is, prove that they cannot be dis@regarded, that they must be reckoned with by bring@ing into his life disorder and misfortune.  to forget it, and to place in its stead the rounded repr@esentation of activity which the novelist supplies, cannot but find the vanity of hiding his face from the presence which he dreads. Out of heart with the world about him--conscious of its actual meanness, and without vigor to re-cast it in the mould of his own thought--he fancies that after a sojourn in the world of fiction he may co@me back braced for his struggle with life. In his study, with a novel, he hopes to overlook the walls of his prison-house, to see the beginning and the end of human strife. But he soon finds himself in the embrace of the very power which he sought to escape. Here is the world itself brought back to him. Here is a perfect copy of that which in actual experience he sees but par@tially. The mirror is but too truly held up to nature. The getting and spending, the marrying and giving in marriage, the dominion of fortune which makes life a riddle, the prudential motives and worship of happiness which hide its divinity, these meet him here as they meet him in life, un@transmuted, unidealised. Yet the charm of art overcomes him. The perfectness of the repre@sentation, the skill with which the incidents are combined to result in a crowning happiness be@hind which no sorrow seems to lie, make him find a pleasure in the copy which he cannot find in actual life, when in personal and painful collision with it. But meanwhile he gains no @real strength, he readies no new height of contem@plation. He co@mes back to the world, as a man with a diseased digestion, after living for a time on spiced meats, co@mes back to ordinary food. He has not braced the assimilative power of his thought by a flight into the ideal world, or learnt even for a time to turn matter to spirit by sub@limation strange. He has remained on the earth, and though his fancy has for the hour given the earth a charm, he is no better able than he was before to raise his eyes from its dead level, or remove the limits of its horizon. 14. Thus, then, the old quarrel of the philos@opher with the imitative arts seems to be revived in respect of the novel. But though novel-writ@ers might be banished from a new republic, 14 it would not be as artists, but for the inferiority of their art. An artist indeed the novelist is he As poets were from the republic of Plato. When any one of these pantomi@mic gentlemen, who are so clever that they can imitate anything, co@mes to us, and makes a proposal to exhibit himself and his poetry, we will fall dow@n and worship him as a sweet and holy and wonderful being but we must also inform him that in our state such as he are not per@mitted to exist the law will not allow them. And so when we have anoint@ed him with myrrh, and set a garland of wool upon his head, we shall send hi@m away to another city. For we mean to employ for our souls' health the rougher and severer poet or story-teller, who will imitate the style of the virtuous only, and will follow those models which we prescribed at first when we began the edu@cation of our soldiers. --Plato, 'Republic,' III.  reference to ends he concentrates into a dialogue of a few sentences an amount of feeling and character which it would take real men some hours to ex@press he imparts a rapidity to the stream of i@ncident quite unlike the sluggishness of our daily experience. In this sense he does not copy what we see, but shows us what we can not see for ourselves. Our complaint against him is that the aspect of things which he shows us is merely the outward and natural, as opposed to the inner or ideal. His answer would probably be either that the ideal, in any sense in which it can be opposed to the natural, must be f@alse and delusive or that it is merely an accident of novel-writing, as hitherto practised, and not anything essential to this species of composition, which has prevented it from exhibiting the highest aspect of things or, finally, that admitting the view which the novel presents to be necessarily lower than the poetic, it yet is a more useful view for man to  between  idealism in art might have been saved by a con@sideration of the true character of the antithesis. It becomes unmeaning as soon as nature is ex@panded to the fulness of the idea. And so ex@panded it may be, for, according to the old for@mula, it is always in flux. It is never in being, always in becoming. As has been already pointed out, it is what we see and we see according to higher and lower laws of vision. We may look at man and the world either from without or from within. We may observe man's actions like other phenomena, and from observation learn to ascribe them to certain general but dis@tinct motives and faculties, which we do not refer to any higher unity or, on the other hand, by the light of our own consciousness we may recog@nise that in man of which no observation of his actions could tell us--something which is in him, but yet is not his own which combines with all his faculties, but is none of them which gives them a unity, to which their diversity is merely relative. So again with regard to the phenom@ena of the world we may look on these either simply as phenomena, or as manifestations of destiny or divine will. The former view of man and the world we may conveniently  the only view that mere observation can give us the latter _ideal_, because making obser@vation posterior to something given in thought.g because he  within. He reaches, as it were, the central fire, in the heat of which every separate faculty, every animal want, every fortuitous incident is melted down and lost. We never could observe in actual experience passion such as Lear's, or meditation such as Hamlet's, fusing everything else into it@self. Facts at every step would interfere to pre@vent such a possibility. But let us place our@selves, by the poet's help, within the soul of Lear or Hamlet, and we shall be able to follow the process by which the spiritual power, taking the form of p@assion in the one, and of thought in the other, and working outwards, draws every@thing into its own unity, according to the same activity of which, however impeded by the im@perfections of matter, we are conscious in our@selves. The incidents of the tragedy are wholly subordinate, issuing either from this spiritual en@ergy of the actors on the one hand, or, on the other, from destiny, to whose throne the poet penetrates. They thus present an aspect entirely different from that of events which we approach from without. The novel, on the contrary, starts from the outside. Its main texture is a web of incidents through which the motions of the spirit must be discerned, if discerned at all. These in@cidents must be probable, must be such as are consistent with the observed sequences of the world. The view of man, therefore, which we attain through them, can only be that which is attainable by observation of outward actions and events or, in other words, according to the dis@tinction which we have attempted to establish, it is the natural view, not the ideal. Its character corresponds to its origin. Observation shows us man not as self-determined, but as the creature of circumstances, as a phenomenon among other phenomena. As such, too, he is presented to us in the novel. We do not see him, as in tragedy, standing in the strength of his own spirit, re@making the world by its power, determined by it for good or evil, dependent on it for all that may be attractive or repellent about him. The hero of a novel attracts in part by his physiognomy, his manner, or even his dress his character is qualified by circumstances and society his im@pulses vary according to the impressions of out@ward things he is the sport of fortune, depend@ent for weal or woe on the acquisition of some ex@ternal blessing which the development of the plot may or may not bestow on him. As cir@cumstances make his life what it is, so the par@ticular combination of circumstances, called hap@piness, constitutes its end. Instead of losing his merely personal and particular self, as in the cat@astrophe of a tragedy, he satisfies it with its ap@propriate pleasure. He that loveth wife or chil@dren more than me, is not worthy of me, are the words of the Author of the Christian life. Marry, enjoy domestic bliss, and thou hast at@tained the end of virtue --such is the ordinary moral of the ordinary novel nay, the only con@sistent moral of the consistent novel. As the novelist sows, so must he reap as his plot is, such must its consummation be. In the body of the work he must, from the nature of the case, represent men as they appear in fact, and he can@not fitly round it off by representing them as they are only in idea. He cannot step at pleasure from one sphere of art to another by attempting to do so he destroys the harmony without which there is no art at all, and leaves us with a sense of dissatisfaction and unreality. The reader, who through the whole three volumes till close upon the end has been travelling in an atmosphere of ordinary morality and every-day aspiration, knows not how in the last chapter to breathe the air of a higher  It may be objected  limitation of the  of the novel, that it must stand on the same foot@ing with the epic poem, which is no less made up of a texture of incident, and which, therefore, according to the present argument, can only reach the springs of man's actions from without. Such an objection has some truth with reference to the Homeric poems. These, as we have seen, have the legendary narrative for their primitive element, and in so far as they are merely a re@flex of Greek life in the Homeric age, their in@terest is that of a novel, not properly of the epic. The true epic of which the Paradise Lost would seem to be a less mixed form than the Iliad or Odyssey , no less than tragedy, seizes the idea of a self-determined spirit on the one hand, and of destiny or divine law on the other. These are the primary springs from which it makes action and incident issue, with a perfect subordination which the laws of our lower na@ture and of social life must prevent from being realised in the world of experience, and which the novelist therefore, tied down to the world of experience, only offends us by attempting to ex@hibit. The essential character of the novel is not changed by its assumption of the form of a ro@mance. In the ro@mantic world of the middle ages, the great Italian poets did indeed find their materials. To their eyes it was a world in which hope and wonder might roam at large it fur@nished actions which, glorified by them, became manifestations of the divine and heroic in man. But it is another world as seen by the novelist, even by such a one as Walter Scott. The ro@mantic life which he depicts is simply the life which we see our own neighbors live, with more picturesque situations, with more to excite curi@osity in the reader, and activity in the imaginary hero. We gain more from him, it is true, than from those copies of the too familiar faces around us which are the staple commodity in novels of the day. He at least carries us into scenes of adventure, where we may forget the smooth tale of our nineteenth-century life. But further he cannot go, for he approaches men from without. He does not reach, by other methods than observation, to any _a priori_ affec@tion of the spirit, and to this subordinate incident. Had he done so, he could not have uttered him@self in the language of common life. In the world of heroes or angels, _i.e._, of men idealised, to which the epic poet raises us, he sustains us by the power of verse. The exalted action and the poetic expression are as essentially correla@tive in the epic, as are the natural incident and the prosaic expression in the  The hostility of  to the poetic  of his time rested on principles of which he scarcely seems himself to have been conscious. 15 The poets of the last century had lost the genu@ine sense of their high calling. Their  be@cause in that condition the essential passions of the heart find a better soil in which they can attain their maturity, are less under restraint, and speak a plainer and more emphatic language because in that condition of life our elementary feelings co-exist in a state of greater simplicity, and, consequently, may be more ac@curately contemplated, and more forcibly communi@cated.... The language, too, of these men has been adopted purified indeed from what appear to be its real defects, from all lasting and rational causes of dislike or disgust , because such men hourly  observed the outer aspect of things, and to make their observations poetry they clothed them in poetic diction, which thus became offensive, because artificial--because a superadded orna@ment, and not the natural expression of exalted passion or the emo@tion which accompanies our passage behind the veil. Repugnance to this artificiality misled Wordsworth into the celebrated assertion that between the language of prose and that of metri@cal composition, there neither is, nor can be, any essential difference an assertion which, as prompted by a feeling of the incompatibility of poetic language with prosaic thought, is really a witness to the essential antithesis between poetry and prose. Verse is simple, harmonious, and tbest part of language is originally derived and because, from their rank in society and the sameness and narrow circle of their intercourse, being less under the influence of social vanity, they convey their feelings and notions in simple and unelaborated expressions. Accordingly, such a language arising out of repeated experience and regular feeling, is a more permanent, and a far more philosophical language, than that which is frequently substituted for it by Poets, who think that they are conferring honor upon themselves and their art in pro@portion as they separate themselves from the sym@pathies of men, and indulge in arbitrary and capricious habits of expression, in order to furnish food for fickle tastes and fickle appetites of their own creation. --Wordsworth, Preface to the 'Lyrical Ballads.'  thought which simplifies the phenom@ena of life by referring them to a spiritual prin@ciple which blends its shifting colours in the light of a master-passion, and passes from the contradictory data of the common understanding to the unity of a deeper consciousness. Even the spiritualist philosopher, no less than the poet, would have to speak in verse, if, instead of mak@ing statements, he portrayed if, besides assert@ing that all things are to be seen in God, he sought to excite in the reader the emotion ap@propriate to the sight. Prose is the oratio soluta. It is complex, irregular, inharmonious. It thus corresponds to the natural or phenom@enal view of life the view of it, that is, in its diversity, as qualified in innumerable modes by animal wants and apparent accident, and not harmonised by the action of the spirit. 16 The novelist must express himself in prose, because this is his view of life and this must be his view of life, because he thus expresses himself. It is indeed a view which may vary according to the circumstances of the case, but only within definite limits. There is an earnestness about some of our modern novelists, Miss Brontë for instance, which would have seemed out of place to@  to Poetry,' pp. 23-28, 128-138, 160-164, and the references there given.  the life they see around them is more earn@est. It presents to them scenes of sterner signifi@cance than were to be found among the coquetry and dissipation of the fashionable world or the dull courtesies of a country house. But that they do not transcend this outward life we have one crucial proof. Just in so far as each of us learns to regard his own individual being from within, and not from without, does he discard depend@ence on happiness as arising from external cir@cumstances, and becomes already in idea, as he tends to become in reality, his own world and his own law. No novelist attains to the asser@tion of this spiritual prerogative. As we follow in sympathy the story of his hero, we find our@selves lifted up and cast down as fortune changes, our life brightening as the clouds break above, and darkening as they close again. If the author chooses to disappoint us with a bad ending, he leaves us, not as we are left at the conclusion of a tragedy, purified from personal desires, but vexed and sorrowful, sadder but not wiser men. H. THE  of the  the ideal and the@@@@@@@@ natural, the poetic and novel@istic, views of the world, we may seem to have already settled the question as to the beneficial ef@fects of each. The question, be it observed, is not as to the comparative influence of the discipline of art and that of real life. The man who seeks his entire culture in art of any kind will soon find the old antagonism between speculation and ac@tion begin to appear. There will be a chasm, which he cannot fill, between his life in the closet and his life in the world his impotence to carry his thought into act will limit and weaken the thought itself. But this ill result will equally ensue, whether the art in which he finds his nur@ture be that of the novelist or that of the poet. The novel-reader sees human action pass before him like a panorama, but he feels none of its pains and penalties his fancy feeds on its pleas@ures, but he has not to face the struggle of re@sistance to pleasure, or the suffering which fol@lows on indulgence. Nor is it merely from that weakness of effect which, in one sense, must always belong to representation as opposed to reality, that the novel suffers. The representa@tion itself is incomplete. The novelist, like every other artist, must abridge and select. For many of the elements whose action builds up our hu@man soul, there is no place in his canvas. A great part of the discipline of life arises simply from its slowness. The long years of patient waiting and silent labor, the struggle with list@lessness and pain, the loss of time by illness, the hope deferred, the doubt that lays hold on delay--these are the tests of that pertinacity in man which is but a step below heroism. The exhibi@tion of them in the novel, however, is prevented by that rapidity of movement which is essential to its fascination and hence to one whose ac@quaintance with life was derived simply from novels, its main business would be unknown. They are perhaps more brought home to us by Defoe than by any other writer of fiction but this is due to that very deficiency of artistic power which makes his agglomeration of de@tails 17 such heavy reading to all but  a work of art, must  teach the lesson of life in its completeness as an inferior work of art, it has peculiar weaknesses of its own. However extensive the influence of the literature of fiction may have been, its in@tensity has been in inverse proportion. A great poem, once made our own, abides with us for ever. Amid the fretful stir Unprofitable, and the fever of the  of details is the result of high and conscious art. If 'Robinson Crusoe' were kept away from schoolboys it would doubtless be read pleasurably by adults.  the fever of the world Have hung upon the beatings of my heart. --Wordsworth, 'Tintern Abbey.'  as@surance of its _own_ birthright, and purify itself, as in a river of Lethe, for an ideal transition to its proper home. The novel, itself the reflex of the fretful stir unprofitable, can exercise no such power. It can but make us more at home in the region from which a great poem transports us. The value of that experience of the world, which it is its object to impart, is commonly over@rated in our day. In the form in which it is im@parted by the novelist, we have perhaps had too much of it without his aid. Our external en@vironment is quite enough in our thoughts we are not too reluctant to admit that we are what we seem to be, dependent for good or evil on circumstances which we do not make for our@selves. This dependence is in itself, no doubt, a fact but it ceases to be so for us when we con@template it in forgetfulness of that spring of potential freedom which underlies it, and of the law of duty correlative to freedom. To the ex@clusive consideration of it we owe those profit@less recipes for eliciting moral health from cir@cumstances which are the plague of modern liter@ature, and which one of our ablest writers has lately condescended to dispense, in an essay on organisation in daily life. This circumstantial view of life, if we may use the term, being the only one that the novelist can convey, prudence is his highest morality. But it may be doubted whether prudence is what any one has great need to learn. The plain man, who fronting circum@stances boldly on the one hand, looks reverently to the stern face of duty on the other, can dis@pense with its maxims. For the moral vale@tudinarian small benefit is to be gained from a doctor who will@@ Read each wound, each weakness clear, Will strike his finger on the plac@@@e And say, 'Thou ailest here and here'. 19 It is far better for him, instead of poring over a detail of the causes and symptoms of the disease which he hugs, to be stimulated to an effort in which, though it be but temporary, ecstatic, and for an end not actually attainable, he may at least forget the disease altogether. Such a stimulus a great poem may afford him but in the whole expanse of novel-literature he merely sees his own sickly experience modified in an infinite variety of reflections, till he fancies that the strange disease of modern life is the proper constitution of God's universe.  two of the worst maladies of modern times, self-consciousness and want of reverence. Many a man in these days, in@stead of doing some sound piece of work for  to him@self why it is that he does not do it, and how, after all, he is superior to those who do. Even men of a higher sort never seem to forget them@selves in their work. Our popular writers gen@erally take the reader into confidence as to their private feelings as they go along our men of action are burdened by a sense of their reputa@tion with intelligent circles. No one loses him@self in a cause. Scarcely understanding what is meant by a @@divine indifference as to the fate of individual existences in the evolution of God's plan, we weary heaven with complaints that we find the world contrary, or that we cannot satis@fy ourselves with a theory of life. Thus meas@uring ourselves by ourselves, and comparing our@selves among ourselves, we are not wise. The novel furnishes the standard for the measure@ment, and the data for the comparison. It pre@sents us with a series of fictitious experiences, in the light of which we read our own, and become more critically conscious of them. Instead of idealising life, if we may so express ourselves, it sentimentalises it. It does not subordinate in@cidents to ideas yet it does not treat them simply as phenomena to excite curiosity, but as misfor@tunes or blessings to excite sentiment. The writer of the Mill on the Floss reaches almost the tragic pitch towards the close of her book, and if she had been content to leave us with the d@eath of the heroine and her brother0 in the flood, we might have suppose@d that in this case, as representing the annihilation of human pas@sion in the struggle with destiny, the novelist had indeed attained the ideal view of life. But the novelistic instinct does@ not allow her to do so. At the conclusion we are shown the other chief actors standing, with appropriate emotions, over the heroine's grave, and thus find that the catas@trophe has not really been the manifestation of an idea, but an occasion of sentiment. The hab@itual novel-reader, from thus looking sentiment@ally at the fictitious life which is the reflex of his own, soon comes to look sentimentally at him@self. He thinks his personal joys and sorrows of interest to angels and men and instead of gazing with awe and exultation upon the world, as a theatre for the display of God's glory and the unknown might of man, he sees in it merely an organism for affecting himself with pains and pleasures. Thus regarded, it must needs lose its claim on his reverence, for it is narrowed to the limits of his own consciousness. Conversant with present life in all its outward aspects, he forgets the infinite spaces which lie around and above it. This confinement of view, which among the more intelligent appears merely as disbelief@@@@@@  more offen@sive form in the complacent blindness of ordin@ary minds. We have no wish to disparage our own age in comparison with any that have pre@ceded it. Young men have always been ignor@ant, and ignorance has always been conceited. There is, however, this difference. The ignorant young men of past time, such as the five sons of Sir Hildebrand Osbaldistone, 21 knew that they were ignorant, but thought it no shame the ig@norant young men of our days, with the miscel@laneous knowledge of life which they derive from the popular novelists, fancy themselves wiser than the aged. Whoever be the philos@opher, the coxcomb nowadays will answer him not merely with a grin, but with a joke which he has still in lavender from Dickens or his imi@tators. The comic aspect of life is indeed plain enough to see, nor is the merely pathetic much less obvious but there is little good in looking at either. It is far easier to laugh or to weep than to think to give either a ludicrous or sen@timental turn to a great principle of morals or religion than to enter into its real meaning. But the vulgar reader of our comic novelists, when he has learnt from them a jest or a sentiment for every occasion of life, fancies that nothing more remains unseen and  to this question  must not allow ourselves to overlook. We have shown what the novel cannot do, and its ill effect on those who trust to it for their culture. We must not forget that it has a proper work of its own which, if modern progress be anything more than a euphemism, must be a work for good. Least of all should it be depreciated by the student, who may find in it deliverance from the neces@sary confinement of his actual life. For the pro@duction of poetic effect, as we have seen, large abstraction is necessary. It is with man in the purity of his inward being, with nature in its simple greatness, that the poet deals. The glory which he casts on life is far higher than any which the novelist knows, but it is only on cer@tain of the elements of life that it can be cast at all. The novelist works on a far wider field. With choice of subject and situation he scarcely need trouble himself, except in regard to his own intellectual qualifications. Wherever human thought is free, and human character can dis@play itself, whether in the servants' hall or the drawing-room, whether in the country mansion or the back alley, he may find his materials. He is thus a great expander of sympathies and if he cannot help us to make the world our own by the power of ideas, he at least carries our thought into many a far country of human experience, which it could not otherwise have reached. We hear much in these days of the sacrifice of the individual to society through professional limita@tions. In the progressive division of labor, while we become more useful as citizens, we seem to lose our completeness as men. The requirements of special study become more exacting, at the same time that the perfect organisation of mod@ern society removes the excitement of adventure and the occasion for independent effort. There is less of human interest to touch us within our calling, and we have less leisure to seek it be@yond. Hence it follows that one who has made the most of his profession is apt to feel that he has not attained his full stature as a man that he has faculties which he can never use, capaci@ties for admiration and affection which can never meet with an adequate object. To this feeling, probably, are mainly due our lamentations over a past age of hero-worship and romance, when action was more decisive and passion a fuller stream. Its alleviation, if not its remedy, is to be found in the newspaper and the novel. Every one indeed must lay in his own experience the foundation of the imaginary world which he rears for himself. There is a primary virtue which cannot be taught. No man can learn from another the meaning of human activity or the possibilities of human emotion. But this  being given, even the cloistered student may find that, as his soul passes into the strife of social forces and the complication of individ@ual experience, which the newspaper and the novel severally represent, his sympathies break from the bondage of his personal situation and reach to the utmost confines of human life. The personal experience and the fictitious act and react on each other, the personal experience giving reality to the fictitious, the fictitious ex@pansion to the personal. He need no longer envy the man of action and adventure, or sigh for new regions of enterprise. The world is all before him. He may explore its recesses with@out being disturbed by its passions and if the end of experience be the knowledge of God's garment, as preliminary to that of God Him@self, his eye may be as well trained for the vis@ion beatific, as if he had himself been an actor in the scenes to which imagination transfers him.  ordinary minds than the poet. This indeed is the strongest practical proof of his essential inferiority as an artist. All who are capable of an interest in incidents of life @@which do not affect themselves, may feel the same interest more keenly in a novel but to those only who can lift the curtain does a poem speak intelligibly. It is the twofold character@istic, of universal intelligibility and indiscrimin@ate adoption of materials, that gives the novel its place as the great reformer and leveller of our time. Reforming and levelling are indeed more closely allied than we are commonly disposed to admit. Social abuses are nearly always the re@sult of defective organisation. The demarca@tions of family, of territory, or of class, prevent the proper fusion of parts into the whole. The work of the reformer progresses as the social force is brought to bear more and more fully on classes and individuals, merging distinctions of privilege and position in the one social organism. The novel is one of the main agencies through which this force acts. It gathers up manifold experiences, corresponding to manifold situations of life and subordinating each to the whole, gives to every particular situation a new charac@ter, as qualified by all the rest. Every good novel, therefore, does something to check what may be called the despotism of situations to prevent that ossification into prejudices arising from situation, to which all feel a tendency. The general novel literature of any age may be re@garded as an assertion by mankind at large, in its then development, of its claims, as against the influence of class and position whether that influence appear in the form of positive social injustice, of oppressive custom, or simply of de@ficient sympathy. 24. To be what he is, the novelist must be a man with large powers of sympathetic observa@tion. He must have an eye for the humanities which underlie the estranging barriers of social demarcation, and in relation to which the influ@ence of those barriers can alone be rightly ap@preciated. We have already spoken of that ac@quiescence in the dominion of circumstance, to which we are all too ready to give way, and which exclusive novel-reading tends to foster. The circumstances, however, whose rule we rec@ognise, are apt to be merely our own or those of our class. We are blind to other idola than those of our own cave we do not understand that the feelings which betray us into indiscr@etio@ns may, when differently modified by a differ@ent situation, lead others to game-stealing or trade-outrages. From this narrowness of view the novelist may do much to deliver us. The variations of feeling and action with those of circumstance, and the essential human identity which these variations cannot touch, are his spec@ial province. He shows us that crime does not always imply sin, that a social heresy may be the assertion of a native right, that an offence which leads to conventional outlawry may be merely the rebellion of a generous nature against conven@tional tyranny. Thus, if he does not do every@thing, he does much. Though he cannot reveal to us the inner side of life, he at least gives a more adequate conception of its surface. Though he cannot raise us to a point of view from which circumstances appear subordinate to spiritual laws, he yet saves us from being blinded, if not from being influenced, by the circumstances of our own position. Though he cannot show the prisoners the way of escape from their earthly confinement, yet by breaking down the partitions between the cells he enables them to combine their strength for a better arrangement of the prison-house. The most wounding social wrongs more often arise from ignorance than from mal@ice, from acquiescence in the opinion of a class rather than from deliberate selfishness. The master cannot enter into the feelings of the ser@vant, nor the servant into those of his master. The master cannot understand how any good quality can lead one to forget his station to the servant the spirit of management in the mas@ter seems mere driving. This is only a sample of what is going on all society over. The rela@tion between the higher and lower classes be@comes irritating, and therefore injurious, not from any conscious unfairness on either side, but simply from the want of a common under@standing while at the same time every class suf@fers within its own limits from the prevalence of habits and ideas, under the authority of class-convention, which could not long maintain them@selves if once placed in the light of general opin@ion. Against this twofold oppression, the novel, from its first establishment as a substantive branch of literature, has made vigorous war. From Defoe to Kingsley its history boasts of a noble army of social reformers yet the work which these writers have achieved has had little to do with the morals--commonly valueless, if not false and sentimental--which they have sev@erally believed themselves to convey. Defoe's notion of a moral seems to have been the vulgar one that vice must be palpably punished and vir@tue rewarded he recommends his Moll Flan@ders to the reader on the ground that there is not a wicked action in any part of it but is first or last rendered unhappy and 22 unfortunate. The moral of Fielding's novels, if moral it can be called, is simply the importance of that  which his heroes might have dispens@ed with, but for the wildness of their animal license. Yet both Defoe and Fielding had a real lesson to teach mankind. The thieves and harlots whom Defoe prides himself on punishing, but whose adventures he describes with the minuteness of affection, are what we ourselves might have been and in their histories we hear, if not the music, yet the harsh and grating cry of suffering hu@ma@nity. Fielding's merit is of the same kind but the sympathies which he excites are more general, as his scenes are more varied, than those of Defoe. His coarseness is everywhere re@deemed by a genuine feeling for the contumeli@ous buffets to which weakness is exposed. He has the practical insight of Dickens and Thack@eray, without their infusion of sentiment. He does not moralise over the contrast between the rich man's law and the poor man's, over the in@difference of rural justice, over the lying and adultery of fashionable life. He simply makes us see the facts, which are everywhere under our eyes, but too close to us for discern@ment. He shows society where its sores lie, appealing from the judgment of the diseased class itself to that public intelligence which, in spite of the cyn@ic's sneer on the task of producing an honesty from the combined action of knaves, has really power to over-ride private selfishness. The same sermon has found many preachers since, the un@conscious missionaries being perhaps the greatest. Scott was a Tory of the purest water. His mind was busy with the revival of a pseudo-feudalism no thought of reforming abuses probably ever en@tered it. Yet his genial human insight made him a reformer against his will. He who makes man better known to man takes the first steps toward healing the wounds which man inflicts on man. The permanent value of Scott's novels lies in his pictures of the Scotch peasantry. He popular@ised the work which the Lake poets had begun, of re-opening the primary springs of human pas@sion. Love he had found in huts where poor men lie, and he announced the discovery teach@ing the world of English gentry what for a century and a half they had seemed to forget, that the human soul, in its strength no less than in its weakness, is independent of the accessories of fortune. He left no equals, but the combined force of his successors has been constantly grow@ing in practical effect. They have probably done more than the journalists to produce that im@provement in the organisation of modern life which leads to the notion that, because social grievances are less obvious, they have ceased to exist. The novelist catches the cry of suffer@ing before it has obtained the strength, or gen@eral recognition, which are pre-supposed when the newspaper becomes its mouthpiece. The mis@eries of the marriage-market had been told by Thackeray, with almost wearisome iteration, many years before they found utterance in the columns of the Times.  that, after all, human@@@@@@@ selfishness is much the  it ever was that luxury still drowns sympathy that riches and poverty have still their old estranging influence. The novel, as has been shown, cannot give a new birth to the spirit, or initiate the effort to transcend the separations of place and circumstance but it is no small thing that it should remove the bar@riers of ignorance and antipathy which would otherwise render the effort unavailing. It at least brings man nearer to his neighbor, and enables each class to see itself as others see it. And from the fusion of opinions and sympathies thus produced, a general sentiment is elicited, to which oppression of any kind, whether of one class by another, or of individuals by the tyranny of sec@tarian custom, seldom appeals in vain.  also in another sense  of which we have al@ready spoken. He helps to@ level intellects as well as situations. He supplies a kind of literary food which the weakest natures can assimilate as well as the strongest, and by the consumption of which the former sort lose much of their weakness and the latter much of their strength. While minds of the lower order acquire from novel-reading a cultivation which they previously lacked, the higher seem propor@tionately to sink. They lose that aspiring pride which arises from the sense of walking in intel@lect on the necks of a subject crowd they no longer feel the bracing influence of living solely among the highest forms of art they become conformed@ insensibly, to the general opinion which the new literature of the people creates. A similar change is going on in every depart@ment of man's activity. The history of thought in its artistic form is parallel to its history in its other manifestations. The spirit descends, that it may rise again it penetrates more and more widely into matter, that it may make the world more completely its own. Political life seems no longer attractive, now that po@litical ideas and power are disseminated among the mass, and the reason is recognised as belong@ing not to a ruling caste merely, but to all. A statesman in a political society resting on a sub@@stratum of slavery, and admitting no limits to the province of government, was a very differ@ent person from the modern servant of a na@tion of shopkeepers, whose best work is to save the pockets of the poor. It would seem as if man lost his nobleness when he ceased to govern, and as if the equal rule of all was equivalent to the rule of none. Yet we hold fast to the faith that the cultivation of the masses, which has for the present superseded the development of the individual, will in its maturity produce some higher type even of individual manhood than any which the old world has known. We may rest on the same faith in tracing the history of liter@ature. In the novel we must admit that the crea@tive faculty has taken a lower form than it held in the epic and the tragedy. But since in this form it acts on more extensive material and reaches more men, we may well believe that this temporary declension is preparatory to some higher development, when the poet shall idealise life without making abstraction of any of its elements, and when the secret of existence, which he now speaks to the inward ear of a few, may be proclaimed on the house-tops to the common intelligence of mankind. APPENDIX A. AN APPRECIATION OF GREEN'S ESSAY It is interesting to see how the leading ideas in his Green's mind governed the treatment of an apparently alien material in his last piece of academic work, the essay on novels, which gained the Chancellor's prize in 1862. The essay has also the additional interest of being almost the only record of his views on art and its relation to life. The fundamental conception upon which it is based is one with which we have already met. The world in its truth is a unity, governed by a single law, animated by an undivided life, a whole in every part. But to human apprehen@sion it is fragmentary and mechanical, a chaos of elements of which each is external to the oth@er and all are external to our minds, and in which chance tempered by familiarity seems to be the only law. To exceptional men, or at exceptional crises in life, in the moments of intense insight or emotion which philosophy calls knowledge and religion faith, the weight of custom falls away, the truth breaks through the veil, and the most trivial object or accident co@mes to reflect in itself the whole system of nature or the whole providence of God. At such moments man real@ises that in order to live he must die, that in or@der to be free he must obey, and that only by surrendering his fancied independence can he enter into the divine unity. To this liberation of the self from its own bondage art contributes its share. The poetic genius, like the speculative and the religious, penetrates the monotonous dis@order of everyday life, and lays bare the im@passioned expression which is there for those who can read it. The dramatist, for instance, with whom the novelist is here compared, shows us some elemental force of humanity, stripped of the accidents of time and place, working itself out in free conflict with other forces, and finally breaking itself against the eternal fact that no man can gain the world without first losing him@self. It is this catastrophe which makes the real tragedy of life it is this which the tragic poet has the eye to see and the words to portray and in proportion as we can follow him in imagina@tion, we come away from the spectacle with our own hearts broken and purged, but strengthened to face the fact and obey the law. The novelist does with inferior means, and for minds at a lower level, what the dramatist may do for a mind at its highest. He idealises enough to make us feel pleasure or pain, not enough to make us forget ourselves. He excites curiosity or sus@pense, not awe or hope. If the novel ends well, it flatters our complacency with the feeling that the world as it is is not such a bad place after all if it ends badly, it strengthens the indolent conviction that aimless misery is the law of the universe. There are however two ways in which novels may be of real service and value. If they cannot teach men how to live, they may, through the wide range of their subjects, enable those who have already found a principle of life to give it a freer application than their limited cir@cumstances would otherwise allow the ficti@tious experience may give expansion to the personal, while the personal gives reality to the fictitious, and thus may be mitigated that sac@rifice of the individual to society which the modern division of labor tends to bring about. And secondly, by appealing to such various classes and capacities, and exhibiting the identity of hu@man nature under such various circumstances, novels supply a vehicle through which the force of public opinion may work, fusing differences, breaking down prejudices, and checking the despotism of situations. The essay concludes characteristically with the refusal to believe that democracy is necessarily unpoetic. As we hold fast to the faith that the 'cultivation of the mass@es,' which has for the present superseded the development of the individual, will in its matur@ity produce some higher type of individual man@hood than any which the old world has known, so, though in the novel the creative faculty has taken a lower form than it held in the epic and the tragedy, we may well believe that this tem@porary declension is preparatory to some higher development, when the poet shall idealise life without making abstraction of any of its ele@ments, and when the secret of existence, which he now speaks to the inward ear of a few, may be proclaimed on the housetops to the common intelligence of mankind. Readers of the essay who are also novel-read@ers will be inclined to say that the writer was not much in sympathy with his subject and he him@self, on getting the prize, remarks that it is curi@ous that I should have been successful in an es@say on novels, about which I know and care lit@tle, and should have failed in both my efforts in theology, for which I care considerably. At the same time it is probably true, as he once said, that he had read more novels than his friends gave him credit for, and it is certainly true that what his reading lacked in extent it made up in intensity. As might be supposed, his taste in fiction was for forcible delineation and robust humor. The flavor of strong, healthy individ@uality was what attracted him for rarities, nice@ties, and abnormalities of mental organisation he cared nothing. He liked things which he could take hold of with his mind, not things which merely gave him sensations, pleasant or painful. Both in his deepest and his lightest moods he was absolutely simple and above board, and this simplicity made him keenly alive to the proxim@ity of the sublime to the ridiculous or the exquis@ite to the grotesque. Though he had little of the animal in him, and was never troubled by his appetites, he was quite free from prudery. If obscenity moved him at all, it was to frank laugh@ter or to grim contempt he never dwelt upon it, either in the way of enjoyment or loathing. For rules of ascetic discipline, says a friend, he had no need. The view of life suggested by so much of the best French literature, that thinking men are generally in a practical dilemma be@tween the extremes of sensual excess and of spiritual exaltation, did not commend itself to him in the least. The only forms of art to which he was keenly susceptible were those of oratory and poetry. He had no ear for music, though he seemed to get a certain exaltation from listening to it. In regard to painting and sculpture he always professed himself incompe@tent, but he was not without decided tastes. On his first visit to the Continent he was more at@tracted by Rembrandt, Holbein, and Dürer than by the Italians these men, he said, grasped the idea of Christianity. Of Durer's four saints at Munich he writes, I could contemplate them with interest for hours he has contrived to give St. John an almost perfect expression of 'divine philosophy'. In later years when he went to Italy he spent a good deal of time in looking at early Italian pictures, and admitted that they would soon have got a great hold upon him. But on the whole his attitude to the arts excluding those of language was one of deferential ignor@ance. He had not himself any artistic gifts he did not even write verses. Yet to his friends, as one of them says, he never represented the prose of existence. With all his gravity, with all his firm grip on fact and material interests, he had the enthusiastic movement of the world's poetry in him. --From the Memoir by R. L. Nettleship, Green's 'Works,' Vol. 3, pp. xxx-xxxiii. B. HEGEL ON THE NOVEL Among the mongrel forms of epic should be included the half descriptive, half lyric poems which were popular among the English, dealing chiefly with nature, the seasons of the year, etc. There belong also to this division @numerous di@dactic poems in which a prosaic content is dressed up in poetic form, such as compendiums of physics, astronomy, and medicine, and treat@ises on chess, fishing, hunting, and the conduct of life. Poems of this sort were most artfully elaborated by the later Greeks, by the Romans, and, in modern times, especially by the French. Despite their general epic tone, they lend them@selves readily to lyric treatment. More poetical, but still without the character@istics necessary for definite classification, are ro@mances and ballads. Being epic in content but lyric in treatment, these products of the Middle Ages and of modern times may be assigned to either class indifferently. The case of the novel, the modern popular epic, is very different. Here we find the same wealth and variety of interests, circumstances, charac@ters, and human relationships, the same world-background, and the same handling of events, that characterize the true epic. But there is lack@ing to it the primitive poetic state of the world, in which the true epic took its rise. The novel, in the modern acceptation of the term, presup@poses a prosaically ordered reality. But working from the basis of this reality, and moving within its own circle, the novel, both as regards pictur@esqueness of incident and as regards characters and their fate, retrieves for poetry so far as the above presupposition permits her lost pre@rogatives. 23 23 In simpler terms The novel, being a form of epic, should have all the characteristics of poetry. But this is impossible because it is compelled to work in the humble field of prose. Nevertheless, by a skilful use of description, narration, and dramatic situation, it causes a poetic oasis to spring up in the desert of prose, and so wins back some of its poetical rights. Thus it happens that the struggle between the poetry of the heart and the opposing prose of outward circumstances is for the novel one of the commonest and most suitable conflicts. This struggle may end comically, or tragically, or in a reconciliation of the opposing forces. In the last case the characters who at first oppose the ordinary world-order may, by learning to recog@nize the true and abiding elements in it, become reconciled to the existing circumstances, and take an active part in them or, on the other hand, they may strip off the prosaic hull from deed and accomplishment, and thus put in the place of the original prose a reality which is on intimate and friendly terms with beauty and art. As far as the range of representation is con@cerned, the true novel, like the epic, requires a complete world and a complete view of life, the many-sided materials and relationships of which exhibit themselves in the particular action that is the nucleus of the whole. As to details of con@ception and development, however, the author must be allowed great liberty, for it is difficult to bring the prose of real life into the representa@tion without sticking fast in the prosaic and com@monplace.--Hegel, 'Aesthetik.' 3. Thl., Kap. III. Abt. 3., S. 394-396.96. 
ethat durste abyde about hym, nor come nyghe hym to holde his horse and he hadde no seruante to serue hym, but let his horse stande there at the gate, and drewe out of his swerde, whiche was all blody, and incontynente toke the waye unto the halle, where the duchesse his moder was. Whan the duchesse sawe Robert her sonne come in this wyse, with a blody swerde in his hande, she was sore aferde, and wolde haue flede a way frome hym, for she knewe wel his con-dycyons. Robert, seynge that euery body dyde flee from hym, and that his owne moder wolde haue fledde in lykewyse, he called unto her pyteously afarre, and sayd Swete lady moder, be not aferde of me, but stande styl tyl I haue spoken with you, and flee not from me in the worshyp of Crystes passyon. Than Roberte's herte beynge full of thoughtandrepentaunce, wente nygher her, saynge thus Dere lady moder, I praye and requyre you tell me how and by what maner or wherby cometh it that I am soo vycyous and curste, for I knowe wel I haue it other by you or of my fader wherefore incontynent I hertly desyre and praye you that ye shewe me the trouth hereof. How the Duchesse desyred Robert her sone to smyte of her hede, and than she tolde hym howe she had gyuen hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon. THE duchesse had gretly meruaylynge whan she herde her sone speke these wordes and piteously wepynge, with a sorrowful herte saynge thus to hym My de
THE RAMBLE THROUGH THE Agricultural Show. Have you seen the sights and wonders, As you rambled to and fro ?  and milking pails ? Or have you seen the new machine For making babies' heads and tails ? Have you seen the banners flying From the villages close by ? They are here to-day with better pay, Hurrah for th@e Union ! they do cry. Have you seen the jolly ploughboys Drinking cyder, ale, or wine ? Or two hundred lushy tailors On the Knickerbocker line ? Have you seen the pretty milkmaids, Ripe and ready for a lark ? How they cuddled the naughty ploughboys, As they went home all in the dark. Have you seen old farmer Jones, Arm in arm with Polly Strong ? He looks as if she'd burst his boiler, He can hardly toddle along, Have you seen the ladies' chignons ? None can tell what is within, Some have got a hole in the middle, For the cat to kitten in. Oh what would bonny England do Without the men and lads that plough, They cause our yellow grain to grow, They reap and sow, they plough and mow Here's to the pretty dairymaids, They have got cheeks like a blooming rose, They have left the cow and come to-day, Te see the Agricultural Show. London -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer@@ Publisher, 177 Union-street,  At the Agricultural Show. Have you seen the people rushing, Crushing, pushing, in the throng, All you've seen and all you havn't, I will tell vou in my song. Have you seen the lads and lasses, As you've rambled to and fro ? Have you seen the sights and wonders At the Agricultural Show. Have you seen the flags and banners, With the shamrock and the rose ? Or our Peg with a wooden leg, Treading on a farmer's toes ? Have you seen the streamers flying From the tall Venetian poles ? Have you seen young Dolly Varden, With her stockings full of holes ? Have you seen the cows and horses, With machines of every name, Did you see old farmer Williams, Puffing and blowing to catch the train ? Have you seen the farmer's daughter ? This is true you may depend, She burst her stays and broke her garters, Trying to do the Grecian bend, Have you heard our splendid band ? It's as good as any in the land Have you seen Sir @Roger Tichborne Playing a whistle in a German band ? Have you seen the fruit and flowers, At the Horticultural Show ? Have you seen the Prince of Wales ? @Not for Joseph ! oh dear, no
TIMOTHY BLACK a  London -@H. Such, Printer and Publisher, 177, Union Street, Boro'-@ But oh ! her beauty was far beyond@-Her sparkling gems and snow white wand. Lady, dost thou not fear to stray, So lone and lovely, through this blank way, Are Erin's sons so good or so cold, As not to be tempted by woman or gold ? Sir Knight, I feel not the least alarm No son of Erin will offer me har@@m, For tho' they love woman and golden store, Sir Knight, they love honor and virtue more. On she went and@ her maiden smile, In safety lighted her round the Green Isle And blessed for ever is she who relied. Upon Erin's honor and Erin's pride.  . So then the devil kick'd up such a fume, And Black like a steamer flew out of the room He went to the river and sat on the brink, And about Mr. Devil he often did think ! He gazed on the clouds, he gazed on the river, At the sight of his shadow, oh ! how he did shiver- It's only my shadow, @@he said, with a grin, When behind came the devil and popp'd him bang in ! Then said the devil, Say will you be mine, Say that you will, or short is your time, @@All right, says old Black, I'm yours without fail, All right,@@ says old Nick, catch hold of my tail. Then Black caught hold of his tail with a grin, The devil he fainted, and quickly fell in Then Black caught the devil a rap on the snout, Then crept to the side, and got himself out. Then Black got a rope and looped it so fine, And the devil's poor neck he got in a line, Black got on a ship that was coming that way, And the devil he keeps floating about to this day ? And all round about where the devil he sails, He seems very much frighten'd by all those black whales And for thirteen long weeks he was chased by a shark, Who bit off his tail in the way of a lark@-The devil was seen t'other day in a fog, Riding in style on a slippery log, Making a shift with a shirt for a sail, For his rudder he lost when the shark took his tail So now if you don't think my song it is true. I'll tell you kind friends what you'd better do, Why if to the truth you cannot agree, You'd better all go to the devil and see. T MOTHY Black was a man of good sense, His understanding was really immense-So I'm undertaking to tell this sad tale, Of Timothy Black who buried wholesale. The name of the place where this man he did live, Not knowing the name, no name will I give, It was somewhere about the American States, At least so an old Yankee Paper relates, Now Black was an undertaker by trade, And a very, a very good living he made ! He lived with the living, but lived by the dead, For he buried the whole of the People 'tis said. The friends of old Black they died every one, And Black I am told, buried every chum ! He buried six thousand twenty feet deep, And so busy was he that he'd no time to weep. He charged a good price and got paid in good time, So wishing 'em dead he thought was no crime ! In less than ten days all his friends they were gone, He gave way to despair and looked quite forlorn-There was only a dozen left in the whole place, And they were departing he quickly could trace ! They got very ill, tho' to cure 'em he tried, And day after day one of them died. He buried his aunt, he buried his mother,ther@,@@@ Be buried his sister, he buried his brother, He buried his granny and children so dear, He buried his grand-dad, then buried his heir He buried his mutes, he buried his wife, He thought then he'd buried the whole of his strife, He buried his father and sister-in-law, He buried the rich and he buried the poor. He buried the parson, he buried the clerk, And he buried the whole of his kin like a shärk ! He laid his pals one by one on the shelf 'Till at last he was left to bury himself. Every where that he went no friend could he see And he was as wretched as wretched could be, There was no one to ride, there was no one to walk, There was no one to drink, there was no one to talk. He buried his horse, he buried his cow, He buried his cat that used to moll-row, To live by himself this man he seemed cast He thought of the future, he thought of the past. He prayed for his wife, tho' she'd plagued him before, He prayed for a man just to open the door ! Then at the door he heard a loud kick, The door it flew open and in walked old Nick. He gazed on the figure with true delight, The devil he bowed so very polite, Black ran to the figure a friend to embrace, But he did not much like the look of his face Then Black hopp'd about with glee and with joy, 'And ran for a bottle to treat the old boy ! All right. said the devil, I'll drink with a friend For we shall be happy some day I depend. Then out of his pocket a paper he took, The colour of blood and made like a book-He pull'd out a pen and wrote a long line, And said Mr. Black bo so good as to sign. Then Black smelt a rat, and said very civil, I see Mr. Stranger that you are the devil The devil, a devil will ne'er do for me, For I am sure Mr. Devil we couldn't agr
 on the southwestern shore. After the massacre of the Caribs, an act of brutal barbarity which Du Tertre calls a glorious victory, the settlers were troubled no more by the natives, and the French and English colonists remained at peace with one another, cultivating the fruitful soil and increasing in wealth and numbers. Warner and D'Esnambuc returned each to his own country. Warner was knighted in 1625, receiving the appointment to the Governorship of St. Chris-topher, and came again that year to the island, accompanied by four hundred new recruits. D'Esnambuc, who, being taken under the patronage of Cardinal Richelieu, was joined by more than five hundred emigrants, put to sea in February, 1627, with his expedition, in ships so poorly equipped and provisioned that many of the company perished miserably during the voyage for want of food. The survivors were kindly received by the English settlers, for they took pity on the Frenchmen in their wretched plight and gave them such provisions as could be spared from their own scanty store thus the people of the two nations for many years lived amicably together on their island-home. In the reign of Charles I., during his war with the Dutch, France having declared for the latter the French settlers in St. Christopher, unmindful of past favors, drove the Englishmen from their settlement. The exiles thus unceremoniously driven away by their ungrateful neighbors, were however restored to their homes and lands by the Treaty of Breda. During the Revolution in England the French, pre-tending to espouse the cause of the abdicated king, expelled the Eng-lish a second time from St. Christopher and remained for nearly a year sole masters of the island. This action on their part is alleged to have been one of the causes that induced William and Mary to de-clare war against Louis XIV. In 1690 General Codrington, Governor of Barbados, on receipt of the news of the Battle of the Boyne, fitted out an armament to capture St. Christopher. In this adventure all the English islands joined. The expedition consisted of three thou-sand armed men, of which number seven hundred were English so
 The skipper, with reckless extravagance as I thought, seeing it came so dear , drank his allowance straight, notwithstand-ing the numerous hints thrown out to him by my more considerate fellow-passengers, who, mindful of the costly quality of my entertain-ment, adulterated their lime-juice with sundry and divers of the ship's stores. The captain's physical sufferings were easily alleviated, but his thirst for knowledge concerning the strict business-like habits of the colored creoles of Martinique was unquenchable for several days. As soon as possible after our arrival in the harbor of St. Pierre, we went ashore in one of the ship's boats and landed at a well-built pier, excellently contrived for the convenience of passengers. We were at once most favorably imp@ressed by the prevailing order and cleanliness of all we saw, as well as by the neatness of the houses, that were noticeably French, as by the spruce, well-favored, prosperous ap-pearance of the people. Like all towns on the leeward coasts of the mountainous Caribbean islands, St. Pierre is situated close beside the sea in fact, it is only separated from the water by a wide beach, along which there is a row of warehouses, occupied by shipping mer-chants who carry on a large trade, not only with France, but with all other parts of the civilized world for this city of twenty-five thousand inhabitants is the chief commercial port of the island and its roadstead affords good anchorage for many vessels. The mountains rise in a vast amphitheatre behind the houses, extending, in magnificent sweep, from Point Carbet on the south to La Mare on the north between these two promontories a crescent of sand, five miles in length, bounds the bay. In the middle of the picture the hills are cleft by the valley of the Rivière Roxelane, whose waters, after a headlong rush down the steeps, flow gently across a fertile, highly cultivated savannah, until they finally empty into the bay of St. Pierre, near the northern suburbs of the town. The streets of St. Pierre are well paved@-streams of water flowing on both sides of the roadways carry away the dirt and garbage many of the wider avenues are shaded by trees, and the shops in all the thoroughfares give signs of doing a drivi
 temper heroes old Arming to battle, and instead of rage Deliberate valour breathed, firm and unmoved With dread of death to flight or foul retreat Nor wanting power to mitigate and swage, With solemn touches, troubled thoughts, and chase Anguish and doubt and fear and sorrow and pain From mortal or immortal minds. Thus they Breathing united force, with fixed thought, Moved on in silence to soft pipes that charmed Their painful steps o'er the burnt soil and now Advanced in view they stand, a horrid front Of dreadful length, and dazzling arms, in guise Of warriors old with ordered spear and shield, Awaiting what command their mighty Chief Had to impose. He through the armed files Darts his experienced eye, and soon traverse The whole battalion views, their order due, Their visages and stature as of gods Their number last he sums. And now his heart Distends with pride, and hardening in his strength Glories for never, since created man, Met such embodied force, as named with these Could merit more than that small infantry Warred on by cranes though all the giant brood Of Phlegra with the heroic race were joined That fought at Thebes and Ilium, on each side Mixed with auxiliar gods and what resounds In fable or romance of Uther's son, Begirt with British and Armoric knights And all who since, baptized or infidel, Jousted in Aspramont, or Montalban, Damasco, or Marocco, or Trebisond Or whom Biserta sent from Afric shor
 FROM TABLE TALK. IN front of these came Addison. In him Humour, in holiday and sightly trim, Sublimity and Attic taste combined, To polish, furnish, and delight the mind. Then Pope, as harmony itself exact, In verse well-disciplined, complete, compact, Gave virtue and morality a grace, That, quite eclipsing pleasure's painted face, Levied a tax of wonder and applause, Ev'n on the fools that trampled on their laws. But he his musical finesse was such, So nice his ear, so delicate his touch Made poetry a mere mechanic art, And every warbler has his tune by heart. Nature imparting her satiric gift, Her serious mirth, to Arbuthnot and Swift, With droll sobriety they raised a smile At folly's cost, themselves unmoved the while. That constellation set, the world in vain Must hope to look upon their like again. . . . Contemporaries all surpassed, see one, Short his career, indeed, but ably run. Churchill, himself unconscious of his powers, In penury consumed his idle hours, And, like a scattered seed at random sown, Was left to spring by vigour of his own. Lifted at length, by dignity of thought And dint of genius, to an affluent lot, He laid his head in Luxury's soft lap, And took too often there his easy nap. If brighter beams than all he threw not forth, 'Twas negligence in him, not want of wort
 RICHARD'S DESPAIR. Scroop. More health and happiness betide my liege, That can my care-tuned tongue deliver him ! Richard. Mine ear is open, and my heart prepared The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold. Say, is my kingdom lost ? Why, 'twas my care And what loss is it to be rid of care ? Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we ? Greater he shall not be if he serve God, We'll serve Him too, and be his fellow so. Revolt our subjects ? that we cannot mend They break their faith to God as well as us. Cry woe, destruction, ruin, loss, decay The worst is death and death will have his day. . . . Of comfort no man speak. Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs Make dust our paper, and with rainy eyes Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth. Let's choose executors, and talk of wills And yet not so, for what can we bequeath, Save our deposed bodies to the ground ? Our lands, our lives, and all, are Bolingbroke's And nothing can we call our own but death, And that small model of the barren earth Which serves as paste and cover to our bones. For heaven's sake let us sit upon the ground, And tell sad stories of the death of kings -How some have been deposed, some slain in war, Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed, Some poisoned by their wives, some sleeping killed All murdered. For, within the hollow crown That rounds the mortal temples of a kin
CHAPTER X. A DRIVE THROUGH MARTINIQUE. Not our Funeral. -@A Merry Party.-@Over the Hills and Far Away.-@The Gendar-merie.@-The Valley of the Roxelane.-@The High Woods.-@Martinique Scenery.-A Way-side Luncheon.@-@Agouti.@-@A Pig's Nurse.@-@A Chorus of Bells.@-@Return to the Ship. WE bestirred ourselves early next morning, left the ship before the sun was two hours high, were rowed ashore, and from the landing readily found our way to the office of the agent of the Barracouta, where a line of carriages was drawn up along the sidewalk await-ing our arrival, for we had been promised a long drive over the hills and far away through the high woods of Martinique. We were a merry and comfortable party, as may well be imagined, and as we took the seats assigned to us in the vehicles, which formed in a line on one side of the street, all traffic in the neighborhood came to a stand-still a crowd gathered around us, impeding the passage of carts and pedestrians. We were evidently objects of curiosity to the on-lookers, and seemed to afford them as much amusement as a Punch and Judy show affords the unfashionable mob at the East End of London. The situation, besides being extremely embarrassing, was, to say the least, ridiculous the row of waiting carriages was painfully suggestive of a much more melancholy occasion than that which had called together the respectful throng there was an oppressive silence until someone, prompted by the imp of mischief, observed It takes a long time to get the remains down-stairs. Very trivial the remark may seem as repeated here, but under the circumstances it was sufficiently mal à propos to throw some of t
 at her flowery work doth sing, And the waters murmuring, With such consort as they keep, Entice the dewy-feathered Sleep And let some strange mysterious dream Wave at his wings, in airy stream Of lively portraiture displayed, Softly on my eyelids laid. And, as I wake, sweet music breathe Above, about, or underneath, Sent by some Spirit to mortals good, Or the unseen Genius of the wood. But let my due feet never fail To walk the studious cloister's pale, And love the high embowèd roof, With antique pillars massy proof, And storied windows richly dight, Casting a dim religious light. There let the pealing organ blow, To the full-voiced choir below, In service high and anthems clear, As may with sweetness, through mine ear, Dissolve me into ecstasies, And bring all Heaven before mine eyes. And may at last my weary age Find out the peaceful hermitage, The hairy gown and mossy cell, Where I may sit and rightly spell Of every star that heaven doth shew, And every herb that sips the dew Till old experience do attain To something like prophetic strain. These pleasures, Melancholy, give, And I with thee will choose to live. -@Milt
 tiem to time, to exclude the rehearsal of such un-pleasant but equally undeniable facts as crowd themselves upon the attention of travellers in this part of the world, but I cannot deliber-ately lay myself open to the charge of journeying among the Carib-bees with my eyes shut, or wearing rose-colored spectacles, refusing to see anything in its true light, or, seeing, to be convinced that these islands are not, in very truth, Paradise, where mankind not only has been, and is, but will forever hereafter continue to be, blessed. Enjoying every moment of my stay in the West Indies, giving my-self up, as completely as was in every way possible and reasonable, to the delightful existence, charmed by the magnficent scenery, re-made@-as the French say@-@by the delicious, sensuous climate, there were times when these questions again and again recurred to me, each time with increasing emphasis What is to become of this teeming population ? Are these men destined to grow more human, or to sink into help-less brutality ? It is probable that, left to themselves, the negroes and the coolies will sink to the level of their brethren on the Island of Hayti. It is barely possible that in some way or another the tide of white immi-gration may be stimulated to flow again toward these islands. The sugar-industry may revive other crops may be planted which will render the plantations again valuable, and worth the care of owners now disposed to abandon them new enterprises may be set on foot. In some indefinite and, at present, indescribable fashion the Caribbees may become once more of importance in the political or commercial world, and so, the gradual extermination of the European races being checked, their ultimate disappearance may be postponed until such time as the black races, by longer contact with civilization, shall have acquired a more perfect knowledge of the art of self-government, shall have had instilled into them a knowledge of the necessity for popular education, and the wise administration of laws. If this should take place, then these islands may be handed over to the colored peopl
TOMM@@Y TIGHT-SHOE@@ Or, Over the Hills and Far Away.@@ When grow in up, and rayther smert I thout it time to tack my part, Un try whot service I could do, To help us on fro a year or two The neighbours said ot I should do, Un sure o' gettin shops onow Lots o' mesthurs every day, Over the hills un far away. Spoken, -@Every body begun o' saying it wur o' no use of a smert clever chap stoppin' i' o country wher I should never have o chance o showin my breedin un my fine parts but if I wer to go to some large town, where I could show my broughtin up up, un my edification, folk would feel un inclination for't put me in on eleva-tion where I could get a situation in o family of os great consideration os any i' this nation. So tackin my mother's advice, un my fayther's blessin givin my bro-ther o shake oth' hond, un my sisthur o kissin. un lea-vin u@m aw in a state quite distressin, wi' two shirts, three pair of stockins, un seven shillin un seven pence i' coppur, I set off- Singin Over the hills and far oway, I'm loike to bid you aw good day, Wi' yo no longer I con  o'er the hills un far away, Ot rare good speed, reet off aw went@@@,@@@@@ To make my fortin so intent, Built up castles inta th' air, How I so@me @day @would make um stare Hills un dales wur nowt to me, I Whistlt on i' sich good glee, I went full twenty mile that day, Over the hills un far away. Spoken. -@Aye, its very fine talkin nn very fine walkin for owhile ot fust, but so very mich on it doesn't go down so well. Theres flowers springing, un birds singing,@-@spring weather, un spring weythur, 't birds singing very, very nicely in o mornin when one sterts off, but tort neet it's th' way worn travellers. un oh dear what con the mathur be. Spring wey@thur's very coolin but o drop o brandy tacks th' chill off, un let's down th' inflammation, un os there's o little public house. I'll just have o drop o summut, for my legs feel tired, my bundle feels heavy, my throat's full o dust, my shoons full o pebbles, my feet's full o blisters, my pockets they're full o nothin particular. So waiter, bring me o point o ale. an ax th' Missus if I con stay here aw neet un if I con have o bit o summut t' eat. Tell me whot time you gun t' bed un whot time yo'll be stirrin i' t' mornin, Is't want o bit o summut ofore I stert un how much hool charge for aw together. Just ax gentlefolks' families there is abewt here, un whot sort of folk they are-@whether they're wed folks or single owd maids or batchelors ax which is th' most likely place t' inquire if they wantin a servant mon, tell t' Missus come un see if I shall have any chance, see which is t' nearest way to t' next merket town, un put my bundle un stick by, for I mun stop here to neet, nn it mornin I mun be off-Over the hills, c.@@@@ I t' morning, up wi' t' lerk I ryse, Un looking for a place, I goes, Ax'd ot th' houses on my way. If they'd a place@-@but aw said nay, Still I wur i' hopes to find, O place just suited to my mind, Wi' little work and lots o' pay, Over the hills and far away. Spoken. -@I trudged on tell my patience un my mon-ey wur very near worn out, un I seed o gentleman co@m-ing on t' road I said, sur if yo pleeson, I should like for't hire yo for my mesthur, for I have none ot present What, would you like to be a foot man ? he said. Nay I said, I've had enough of footin it lately ! I should like to be a hossmon now.@-@Perhaps like to wait on the ladies.@-@Just the very thing.@-@But being country they might laugh at you. I suppose you could make your-self useful in the kitchen ? I should be very useful in the kitchen yo may depend !@-@you can dress game ? I can undress it rarely !@-@Perhaps a good shot ? Well I've left many a good shot behind me.@-@You can brew good ale ? Ay, un barrel it, un tap it too.@-@Well tell me what else you can do ? I wish yo could tell me of any thing else os I cannot do. I con use o flail, carry o pail, Tack my turn ot helpin t' churn, Tend to t' barn when the wheot's hors, Chop up straw, when licken's low. Doctor cows, un mend owd ploughs, Graft your trees an hire your bees, Trim your bowers, deg your flowers, Wi pleasent showers at any hours, Rake down beds, un build up sheds, Brush a coat or carry a note, Clean shoes, or read you t' news, Boil un Bake, or puddings make. Spoken. -@I con roast, boil, fry, or fricasee any sort o' meat roast o piece o pork till it rattles like Orm@s-kirk ginshade I con do ony thin from th' bed-room to th' kitchen@-@nothin comes amiss whether it's frying pan or warming pan@-any thing fro shakin o carpet to a lady's lap-dog.@-@Any sort a tubbing, scrubbing wash-in or scourin then for tel@lin a genteel lie, goin to t' ra-ces, balls fashionable places. Where there's smilin dames wi' wit un graces, un hansome girls wi' chermin faces. Yo'll not find sich another mon fro Brumigum to Botany Bay. Well, he said, how much a year will you want for all this ? I said yo mon gi' me as mich as yo can aford ! yo may depend yo'll have aw th' honour on it for when they seen me ridin on a fine boss, they'll say, who's that ? why it's Mr.'sich a one's servant. Well they'll say, if that's but t' servant, whot mon t' mesthur be ?-@Well he said, if you are only half as clever as you say, we shall not quarrel about wages.-@So I made a tidy job wi going@-O'er the hills un far away, I've ge@tten a tidy job to-day, Litlle werk, un lot's o pay, Over the hills un far away. 258. Cadman, Printer, Gt. Ancoats, Mancheste
 Love and Hope beneath the load give way Then with a statue's smile, a statue's strength, Stands the mute sister, Patience, nothing loth, And both supporting does the work of both. 1827. -@Coleridge. CCCLXX. NIGHT AND DEATH.  ! when our first parent knew Thee from report divine, and heard thy name, Did he not tremble for this lovely frame, This glorious canopy of light and blue ? Yet 'neath a curtain of translucent dew, Bathed in the rays of the great setting flame, Hesperus, with the host of heaven came And lo ! creation widened in man's view. Who could have thought such darkness lay concealed Within thy beams, O Sun ? or who could find, Whilst fly, and leaf, and insect stood revealed, That to such countless orbs thou madest us blind ? Why do we then shun Death with anxious strife ?@-If Light can thus deceive, wherefore not Life ?† -@Blanco White. Published in the Bijou Pickering , 1828. † ' The finest and most grandly-conceived sonnet in our language at least it is only in Milton and Wordsworth that I remember any rival.@'@-@Coleridge. ' The exquisite art of this sonnet of Mr. Blanco White's seems to us to exhibit, as in a perfect type, the true rationale of the sonnet. It is not abstract, for it is penetrated throughout with the most vivid sense of vision it is not merely or chiefly pictorial, for its whole life and meaning are intellectual, an appeal to the highest and subtlest kind of analogy it is not didactic, for it throbs with the keenest of human feelings, the profound mystery of Death mingled with the instinct of immortality it is not stagnant@-@the worst danger of the sonnet@-@but full of motion, every line advancing you towards the conclusion . . . and it contrives, as but few sonnets do, to combine the vivid flash of a surprise with the stately movement of an intellectual train of thought.'@-@The Spectator, Dec. 20, 187
 half of our heavy task was done, When the clock struck the hour for retiring And we heard the distant and random gun That the foe was sullenly firing. Slowly and sadly we laid him down, From the field of his fame fresh and gory We carved not a line, and we raised not a stone, But we left him alone with his glory. -@@@ THE SEASONS. The blasts of Autumn drive the wingèd seeds Over the earth,@-@next come the snows, and rain, And frosts, and storms, which dreary Winter leads Out of his Scythian cave, a savage train. Behold ! Spring sweeps over the world again, Shedding soft dews from her aethereal wings Flowers on the mountains, fruits over the plain, And music on the waves and woods she flings, And love on all that lives, and calm on lifeless things. Oh Spring ! of hope, and love, and youth and gladness, Wind-winged emblem ! brightest, best, and fairest@! Whence comest thou, when, with dark Winter's sadness, The tears that fade in sunny smiles thou sharest ? Sister of joy ! thou art the child who wearest Thy mother's dying smile, tender and sweet Thy mother Autumn, for whose grave thou bearest Fresh flowers, and beams like flowers, with gentle feet, Disturbing not the leaves which are her winding-sheet. -@ left the table and returned with a magazine from which he read the lines on Sir John Moore's burial he repeated the third stanza, and said it was perfect.'@-@Medwin's Conversations of Lord Byron. From Shellev's Revolt of Islam canto ix. 21, 22 , first published in 1817 under the title of Laon and Cythna. 
 fled to England, purchased an estate, got himself elected to, and was promptly expelled from Parliament for bribery. He fled to Hol-land, pursued by a captain of the Queen's Guard, whose wife he had dishonored, and there volunteered, under the Duke of Marlborough, as aide-de-camp. The duke was almost immediately obliged to dis-honorably discharge the rascal from the army, and after the Battle of Blenheim, to get rid of him, despatched him to England to announce the gaining of that famous victory to Queen Anne, sending by the hand of Parks the following letter to the Duchess of Marlborough August 13, 1704. I have not time to say more, but to beg you will give my Duty to the Queen, and let her know her Army has had a glorious Victory. Mon s Tallard and two other Generals are in my Coach and I am following the rest. The bearer, my Aiede-Camp C. M. Parkes, will give her and account of what has pass'd. I shal doe it in a day or two by a nother more att large.  relieve herself in turn of the presence of the busy villain, the Queen made pretence of honoring the bearer of good tidings, and ap-pointed this precious scoundrel to the Governorship of Antigua, where he lost no time in provoking a riot, in which he was killed by a mob, who, exasperated by his crimes, literally tore him to pieces in the street. Before the abolition of slavery Antigua was the scene of several negro insurrections, which with one notable exception, in the year 1736 were easily suppressed, and, although threatened by foes from @without, the island has usually enjoyed internal peace. In the year 1787, Prince William Henry, afterward William IV. of England, visited Antigua in the frigate Pegasus. His appearance threw Anti-guan society into a fever of loyal enthusiasm. The Solicitor-General of the island, in attempting to read an address of welcome, was so overawed that he was bereft of speech. The prince during his stay impressed the good people of Antigua with a sense of his gracio
 to London for I doubt he is either sicke or else some mischance hath fallen vnto him. The fellow did so, and asking for him at Colebrooke, they answered, hee went homeward from thence such a day. The seruant musing what should be become of his Master, and making much inquiry in the Towne for him at length one told him of a horse that was found on the high-way, and no man knew whence he came. He going to see the horse, knew him presently, and to the Crane he goes with him. The Oast of the house perceiuing this, was blanke, and that night fled secretly away. The fellow going vnto the Justice desired his helpe presently after word was brought that Iarman of the Crane was gone, then all the men said, he had sure made Cole away and the Musicians told what Iarman said to them, when they would haue giuen Cole musicke. Then the woman being apprehended and ex-amined, confessed the truth. Iarman soone after was taken in Windsor Forest, he and his wife were both hangd, after they had laid open al these things before expressed. Also he confessed, that he being a Car-penter made that false falling floore, and how his wife deuised it. And how they had murdered by that means lx. persons. And yet notwithstanding all the money which they had gotten thereby, they pros-pered not, but at their death were found very farre in debt. When the King heard of this murder, he was for the space of vii dayes so sorrowfull and heauie, as he would not heare any suite, giuing also commandement, th
 hear perchance a trumpet sound, Or any air of music touch their ears, You shall perceive them make a mutual stand, Their savage eyes turned to a modest gaze, By the sweet power of music. Therefore, the poet Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones, and floods Since nought so stockish, hard and full of rage, But music for the time does change his nature. The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils The motions of his spirit are dull as night, And his affections dark as Erebus Let no such man be trusted. Merchant of Venice, v. I. LVIII. HENRY IV. AND PRINCE HENRY. Prince. I never thought to hear you speak again. King. Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought. I stay too long by thee I weary thee. Dost thou so hunger for my empty chair, That thou wilt needs invest thee with mine honours Before thy hour be ripe ? O foolish youth ! Thou seekest the greatness that will overwhelm thee. Stay but a little for my cloud of dignity Is held from falling with so weak a wind, That it will quickly drop my day is dim. Thou hast stolen that, which, after some few hours, Were thine without offence and at my death Thou hast sealed up my expectation Thy life did manifest thou lovedst me not, And thou wilt have me die assured of it. Thou hidest a thousand daggers in thy thought
 Simons wife of Southampton, being wholly bent to pride and pleasure, requested her husband to see London, which being granted, how she got good-wife Sutton of Salisbury to goe with her, who tooke Crab to go along with them, and how he prophecied of many things. Chap. 6. THE Clothiers being all come from London, Suttons wife of South-hampton, who was with her husband very mery and pleasant, brake her mind vnto him in this sort Good Lord, husband, will you neuer be so kind as let me goe to London with you ? shall I be pend vp in South-hampton, like a Parrat in a cage, or a Capon in a coope ? I would request no more of you in lieu of all my paines, carke and care, but to haue one weeks time to see that faire City what is this life, if it be not mixt with some delight ? and what delight is more pleasing then to seethe fashions and maners of vnknowne places ? Therefore good husband, if thou louest me deny not this simple request. You know I am no common gadder, nor haue oft troubled you with trauell. God knowes, this may be the last thing that euer I shall request at your hands. Woman, quoth he, I would willingly satisfie your desire, but you know it is not conuenient for both of vs to be abroad, our charge is so great, and therefore our care ought not no† be small. If you will goe your selfe, one of my men shall goe with you, and money enough 
 the bottom of the monstrous world Or whether thou, to our moist vows denied, Sleep'st by the fable of Bellerus old, Where the great Vision of the guarded mount Looks towards Namancos and Bayona's hold. -@Look homeward Angel, now, and melt with ruth, And, O ye dolphins, waft the hapless youth. Weep no more, woeful shepherds, weep no more, For Lycidas, your sorrow, is not dead, Sunk though he be beneath the watery floor So sinks the day-star in the ocean-bed, And yet anon repairs his drooping head, And tricks his beams, and with new-spangled ore Flames in the forehead of the morning sky So Lycidas, sunk low, but mounted high, Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves Where, other groves and other streams along, With nectar pure his oozy locks he laves, And hears the unexpressive nuptial song In the blest kingdoms meek of joy and love. There entertain him all the saints above, In solemn troops and sweet societies, That sing, and singing, in their glory move, And wipe the tears for ever from his eyes. Now, Lycidas, the shepherds weep no more Henceforth thou art the Genius of the shore In thy large recompense, and shalt be good To all that wander in that perilous flood. Thus sang the uncouth swain to the oaks and rills, While the still morn went out with sandals gray He touched the tender stops of various  Michael's Mount, near Land's End, facing Namancos in Spai
 Death his court, and there the antic sits, Scoffing his state, and grinning at his pomp Allowing him a breath, a little scene To monarchize, be feared, and kill with looks Infusing him with self and vain conceit, As if this flesh, which walls about our life, Were brass impregnable, and, humoured thus, Comes at the last, and with a little pin Bores through his castle wall, and@-@farewell king! Cover your heads, and mock not flesh and blood With solemn reverence throw away respect, Tradition, form, and ceremonious duty For, you have but mistook me all this while I live with bread like you, feel want, Taste grief, need friends subjected thus, How can you say to me, I am a king ? -Richard II@., iii. 2. XL. LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT. IT lies not in our power to love or hate, For will in us is overruled by fate. When two are stripped, long ere the race begin We wish that one should lose, the other win. And one especially do we affect Of two gold ingots, like in each respect. The reason no man knows let it suffice What we behold is censured by our eyes Where both deliberate, the love is slight Who ever loved, that loved not at first sight ? 1593. Marlowe, Hero and Leander. Shakspere quotes this line, and thus refers to Marlowe in As You Like It, iii. 5 -' Dead Shepherd ! now I find thy saw of might- Who ever loved that loved not at first sight ?
 of crowned Fortune proud Hast reared God's trophies, and His work pursued, While Darwen stream with blood of Scots imbrued, And Dunbar field resounds thy praises loud, And Worcester's laureate wreath. Yet much remains To conquer still Peace hath her victories No less renowned than War new foes arise, Threatening to bind our souls with secular chains. Help us to save free conscience from the paw Of hireling wolves, whose Gospel is their maw. -@Milton, Sonnet 16. CLV. ON THE LATE MASSACRE IN PIEDMONT. AVENGE, O Lord, Thy slaughtered saints, whose bones Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold Even them who kept Thy truth so pure of old, When all our fathers worshipped stocks and stones, Forget not in Thy book record their groans Who were Thy sheep, and in their ancient fold Slain by the bloody Piemontese, that rolled Mother with infant down the rocks. Their moans The vales redoubled to the hills, and they To Heaven. Their martyred blood and ashes sow O'er all the Italian fields, where still doth sway The triple tyrant that from these may grow A hundredfold, who, having learnt Thy way, Early may fly the Babylonian woe. -Ib.  1655 an edict was published by the Duke of Savoy directing the Vaudois, or Waldenses, who inhabited the valleys of Piedmont, to join the Church of Rome within twenty days, or quit the country all who refused and could not escape were massacred. Cromwell instructed Milton, as Secretary for Foreign Affairs, to write to Louis XIV. on their behalf, and they were free from persecution the re-mainder of the Commonwealth. ' The triple tyrant,' the Pope, ' triple@' refers to his tiara. ' Babylonian woe,'@-@the Puritans regarded the Church of Rome as the mystical Babylon of the Revelatio
 plantations. The island was settled by active, enterprising pioneers, sturdy English yeomen who set a value on land in propor-tion as it was fertile, not because it happened to abound in grand or peaceful scenery preferring to see their real estate spread out flat, or rolling in gentle undulations promoting drainage. They cared little for a country all set up on edge, or tumbled about in pict-uresque confusion, no matter how grand or magnificent the landscape might be setting little store by mountains and other geological phe-nomena and laughed to scorn the idea of crossing the seas to colo-nize ipcturesque parts of the earth, just as they would have scouted the idea of keeping their ledgers in blank verse, or corresponding with their factors in Spenserian stanzas. In their opinion land was created to be ploughed, not sketched or rhymed about they set high value on farming-land that could be fenced or hedged in, and mortgaged@-soil promising such abundant harvests that any banker would be glad to make liberal advances on the standing crops. Having chosen and settled in Bimshire, they presently began to cultivate sugar-cane, to the neglect of all other growing things, year after year put-ting all their eggs into one basket@-@grandfather, father, son, grandson, pulling down their sugar-works and building greater, mortgaging, get-ting advances, until, by the manumission of their blacks as some will tell you, or the competition of beetroot sugar as all do tell you, their once prosperous island, a little island of which they formerly boasted that it paid its own way, became so reduced in circumstances that it now finds great difficulty in making both ends meet. Barbados was the last of the British West Indian islands to be affected by the decline in the price of sugar. The energy of its planters is tireless no improvements in the methods of cultivating cane are left by them untried they promptly experiment with new and costly@ machinery, expend vast sums of money@ in keeping up with the times, plant all varieties of cane, plough deeper and deeper, test the value of every sort of fertilizers@-@indeed, by the lavish use of guano, phosphates, mucks, and marls, in some places they ha
 benevolence, not state. And may my humble dwelling stand Upon some chosen spot of land, A pond before, full to the brim, Where cows may cool, and geese may swim Behind, a green like velvet neat, Soft to the eye, and to the feet Where odorous plants in evening fair Breathe all around ambrosial air From Eurus, foe to kitchen-ground, Fenced by a slope with bushes crowned, Fit dwelling for the feathered throng, Who pay their quit-rents with a song With opening views of hill and dale, Which sense and fancy too regale, Where the half-cirque, which vision bounds, Like amphitheatre surrounds And woods impervious to the breeze, Thick phalanx of embodied trees, From hills through plains in dusk array Extended far, repel the day. . . . Thus sheltered, free from care and strife, May I enjoy a calm through life See faction, safe in low degree, As men at land see storms at sea, And laugh at miserable elves, Not kind, so much as to themselves, Cursed with such souls of base alloy, As can possess, but not enjoy Debarred the pleasure to impart By avarice, sphincter of the heart Who wealth, hard earned by guilty cares, Bequeath untouched to thankless heirs. May I, with look ungloomed by guil
 SLEEP AND OLD AGE. By him lay heavy Sleep, Cousin of Death, Flat on the ground, and still as any stone, A very corpse, save yielding forth a breath, Small keep took he whom Fortune frowned on, Or whom she lifted up into the throne Of high renown, but as a living death, So, dead alive, of life he drew the breath. The body's rest, the quiet of the heart, The travail's ease, the still night's feere † was he, And of our life in earth the better part, Reaver of sight, and yet in whom we see Things oft that tide, and oft that never be Without respect, esteeming equally King Croesus' pomp, and Irus' poverty. And next in order sad Old Age we found, His beard all hoar, his eyes hollow and blind, With drooping cheer still poring on the ground, As on the place where nature him assigned To rest, when that the Sisters had untwined His vital thread, and ended with their knife The fleeting course of fast declining life. There heard we him with broke and hollow plaint Rue with himself his end approaching fast, And all for nought his wretched mind torment, With sweet remembrance of his pleasures past, And fresh delights of lusty youth forewast. Recounting which, how would he sob and shriek ! And to be young again of Jove beseek. From the Induction to the Mirror of Magistrates 1563 , out of seventy-nine stanzas. Companio
 forestalled this dear and deep rebuke, Ere you with grief had spoke, and I had heard The course of it so far. There is your crown And He that wears the crown immortally Long guard it yours. If I affect it more Than as your honour, and as your renown, Let me no more from this obedience rise,- Which my most true and inward duteous spirit Teacheth, -@this prostrate and exterior bending. Heaven witness with me, when I here came in, And found no course of breath within your majesty, How cold it struck my heart ! If I do feign, Oh let me in my present wildness die, And never live to show the incredulous world The noble change that I have purposed ! Coming to look on you, thinking you dead, And dead almost, my liege, to think you were, I spake unto the crown as having sense, And thus upbraided it ' The care on thee depending Hath fed upon the body of my father Therefore thou, best of gold, art worst of gold Other, less fine in carat, is more precious, Preserving life in medicine potable But thou, most fine, most honoured, most renowned, Hast eat thy bearer up '. Thus my most royal liege, Accusing it, I put it on my head, To try with it@-@as with an enemy, That had before my face murdered my father,@-The quarrel of a true inheritor. But, if it did infect my blood with joy, Or swell my thoughts to any strain of pride, If any rebel or vain spirit of mine Did, with the least affection of a welcome, Give entertainment to the might of i
CUPID, THE PRETTY PLOUGHBOY. As I walked out one May morning When May was all in bloom@, I went into a meadow so sweet To taste the s@weet perfume, I went into a flowery field, I turned my head  the ploughboy Who did @my heart beguile. @@As this young man was ploughing, His furrows deep and low, Breaking his clod to pieces, Some barley for to sow, I wish this pretty ploughboy, @@My eyes had never seen, 'Twas Cupid the pretty ploughboy. With his arrow sharp and keen. If I should write a letter, My mind to him unfold, Perhaps he'll take it scornful, And say it was full bold. I wish he'd take it kinder, Return my heart again, 'Tis Cupi@d the pretty ploughboy, With his arrow sharp and keen. A worthy rich young@ gentleman, A courting to me came, And because I would not marry him, My parents did me blame. Adieu young man for ever. Farewell, for ever, adieu. 'Tis Cupid the pretty ploughboy, Has caused my heart to rue.@@ The ploughboy hearing the lady, Most sadly to complain, Cried I, my dearest jewel, I will ease you of your pain. If you will wed a ploughboy, For ever I will prove true, 'Tis you my heart have wounded, And I love none but you. The lady soon consented, To be his lawful bride, And t@hen they went unto the church, And there the knot was tied, So now they live in pleasure, For they have gold in store The lady and the ploughboy Each other do adore.  and listen unto me,  concerning Monroe. May true liberty through the nation still flow, Now hear how they took and beheaded Munroe. Where you at the battle of Ballinahinch, When the country all gather'd to stand their de-fence-When the country all gather'd to prove their overthrow, When commanded by Clokey and Gen. Munroe. My name is George Clokey, my age is nineteen, In many a battle and skirmish I've been, And many the dangers I did undergo, When commanded by Clokey and Gen. Munroe@@@@@@.@@ Munroe took the mountains, his men took the @@field, And swore to tyrants they never would yield Let the firing of canon never daunt us so, When commanded by Clokey and Gen. Munroe. Munroe being wearied, and wanted to sleep, He gave a woman ten guineas the secret to keep, When she got the money she just served him so, And sent for the army, and surrounded Munroe. If you'd seen the cavalry when they came there, Their horses did caper and prance iu the rear The traitor being with them as your all do know Out of a haystack they haul'd poor Munroe. Munroe was taken and brought to the hall, He thought to escape but he could not at all, They marched him to Lisburn without any delay And put his head on a spear the very same day. In comes his sister well clothed in green, A sword by her side, long, sharp, and keen, Three cheers she did give, and away she did go, Saying, I'll have revenge for my brother Munroe Munroe he was taken and brought to a tree, Farewell to my wife and children three, There is nothing that grieves me@ but liberty also, And that was the end of General Munroe.  by W. S. FORTEY, Monmouth Court, Seven Dials. The Oldest and Cheapest House in the World for Ballads 4,000 sorts . Children's Books, Song Books, 
 of passengers, of whom I was one, were ferried ashore about seven o'clock. We landed in safety on a well-built pier project-ing a hundred feet or more from the beach, on which the waves were tumbling within a few yards of the front walls of a row of stores and warehouses, built in a curve along the shore. Immediately upon set-ting foot on land we were surrounded by a host of fruit and flower-sellers, and those having cocoanuts and sugar-cane for sale all of them, singly and collectively, and no less noisily than their brethren in the boats which had followed us landward from the ship, clamored for our patronage, thrusting their wares into our faces@-@indeed, I may say, with much color of truth, almost into our mouths. Being abun-dantly supplied, by reason of purchases made aforetime on board ship, we politely but firmly refused all the bargains which were offered with exasperating persistence not to say maddening reiteration, walked up the wharf, passed through a picturesque and ancient gate-way, ran the gauntlet of Her Majesty's customs-officers, and at last found ourselves in the metropolis of St. Christophe
 pers@waded, and when he had pluckt off all the shooes from their horses feete, they would needes haue them all set on againe, quite contrary with the cakins forward, that should stand backward. How ? fay, fay man, qd. the Smith, are ye like fules ? what the deele doe you meane to breake your crags ? gud faith I tro the men be wood. Not so, Smith, qd. they, do thou as we bid thee, and thou shalt haue thy mony for it is an old prouerbe, Be it better, or be it worse, Please you the man that beares the purse. Gudd faith and see I sall, qd. the Smith, and so did as hee was willed. When Wallis had thus caused their horses to be shod, to Hallifax they went, where they without any let, laded their horses with cloth, and so departed contrary way. In the morning, so soone as the Clothiers came to the field, they found that they were robd, whereupon one ranne to another to tell these things. Now when Hodgekins heard thereof, rising vp in haste, he wild his neighbors to mark and to see, if they could not descry either the foot-steppes of men or Horses. Which being done, they perceiued that horses had been there, and seeking to pursue them by their foot-steppes, they went a cleane contrary way, by reason that the horses were shodde backward and when in vaine they had long pursued them, they returned, being neuer the neere. Now Wallis vsed his feate so long, that at length he w
 they move, from yonder visible sky Shoot influence down and even at this day 'Tis Jupiter who brings whate'er is great, And Venus who brings everything that's fair ! Thekla. And if this be the science of the stars, I too, with glad and zealous industry, Will learn acquaintance with this cheerful faith. It is a gentle and affectionate thought, That in immeasurable heights above us, At our first birth, the wreath of love was woven, With sparkling stars for flowers. -@Coleridge. CCLXXXVIII. CONSECRATED CUSTOM. POWER seated on a quiet throne thou'dst shake, Power on an ancient consecrated throne, Strong in possession, founded in old custom ! Power by a thousand tough and stringy roots Fixed to the people's pious nursery-faith. This, this will be no strife of strength with strength. That feared I not. I brave each combatant, Whom I can look on, fixing eye to eye, Who full himself of courage kindles courage In me too. 'Tis a foe invisible The which I fear,@-@a fearful enemy, Which in the human heart opposes me, By its coward fear alone made fearful to me. Not that, which full of life, instinct with power, Makes known its present being, that is not The true, the perilously formidable. O no ! it is the common, the quite common, The thing of an eternal yesterda ', What ever was, and evermore returns, Sterling to-morrow, for to-day 'twas sterling
 the gales that from ye blow A momentary bliss bestow, As waving fresh their gladsome wing, My weary soul they seem to soothe, And, redolent of joy and youth, To breathe a second spring. Say, Father Thames, for thou hast seen Full many a sprightly race Disporting on thy margent green The paths of pleasure trace Who foremost now delight to cleave, With pliant arm, thy glassy wave ? The captive linnet which enthral ? What idle progeny succeed To chase the rolling circle's speed, Or urge the flying ball ? While some on earnest business bent Their murmuring labours ply, 'Gainst graver hours that bring constraint To sweeten liberty Some bold adventurers disdain The limits of their little reign, And unknown regions dare descry Still as they run they look behind, They hear a voice in every wind, And snatch a fearful joy. Gay hope is theirs by fancy fed, Less pleasing when possest The tear forgot as soon as shed, The sunshine of the breast Theirs buxom health of rosy hue, Wild wit, invention ever-ne
Fortunate SAILOR, OR The  story, a story to you I will tell, Concerning a sailor that's known very well, Concerning a sailor that's very well known, Who is ragged and patched like one that is poor@@. When that he had landed he bethought him of a plot, And went unto a alehouse where he used to lodge at,@ You're welcome home dear Johnny, you're welcome home from sea, You're welcome home dear Johnny, said the landlady so free. Last night my daughter Molly was dreaming of thee, And your daughter Molly I could wish to see. For I have had a bad @misfo@rtune, my ship and car@go is lost, And on the briny ocean my fortune has been crost. Bring in a pot of beer and sit down by me, Fetch down your daughter Molly and set her on my knee My daughter Molly's busy John, and cannot come to you Neither will I credit you with one pot or two. Johnny being drowsv he hung down his head, He called for a candl to li@ght him to bed, My beds they're engaged, and have been all the week, Therefore for fresh lodgings you must seek, If to a fresh lodging you force me to go, Tell me what I owe you and I will pay you now. It is five and forty shillings John, you owe to me of old With that John pulled out his two hands full of gold. The sight of the gold the landlady knew not what to She said John sit down while I go and fetch some drink If Johnny was in earnest, I vow I was in jest, Of all young men in this world I love young Johny best The green bed is empty, and as been all this week, You and my daughter Molly may take a pleasant sleep, Before I would lay within your house I would lay upon the floor@@. For if I had no money you'd have turned me ot @of doors But I have money in my pocket, I can sing, drink, rant, and roar, While the brown jugs and glasses come tumbling to the floor, Come all y@ou brisk young sailors that ploughs the raging main, Who are getting your money through stormy winds and rain,@ Be careful of your money boys and lay it up in store, For when all your money's gone, they will kick you out of  Old England's emblem is t@he rose, There is no other flower, Hath @half the graces that adorn. T@he beauty of that flower, And Eng@lands daughters are as fair, As any bud that blows, What son of her's who has not loved, Some Bonny English Rose. Who hath not heard of one sweet flower The first among the fair, For whose welfare a British, Hath breath'd a fervent prayer, O, may it never be her lot, To lose that sweet repose, That peace of mind which blesses now, The Bonny English Rose. If any bold enough there be, To war 'gainst England's Isle. @They soon shall find for British hear@ts What charms hath woman's smile. Thus nerv'd the thunder of their arms, Would teach aspiring foes, How vain the power that defies, The Bonny English Rose @! Now heaven decrees her to the throne,  @the nation's prayer, That in each joy she had not @known, Her heart may ever share, That health may long light up her brow, And as time onward flows, It still may be our pride to sing, The Bonny English Rose. Beneath her sway may every land, Where she d@ominions holds, Be@ happy as the glorious isles @@Where Freedom's flag unfolds, From sea to shore, from shore to sea, @The song of gladness, And oh, may heaven for ever bless, The Bonny English Rose. Jackson S@@@on, late J. Russell, Pri@n ters, Moor-street, Birmingham
 fitted Israel for a foreign yoke. Then, seized with fear, yet still affecting fame, Usurped a patriot's all-atoning name. So easy still it proves in factious times With public zeal to cancel private crimes. How safe is treason, and how sacred ill, Where none can sin against the people's will@! Where crowds can wink, and no offence be known, Since in another's guilt they find their own.@-Yet fame deserved no enemy can grudge The statesman we abhor, but praise the judge. In Israel's courts ne'er sat an Abethdin With more discerning eyes or hands more clean Unbribed, unsought, the wretched to redress Swift of despatch, and easy of access. Oh ! had he been content to serve the crown With virtues only proper to the gown Or, had the rankness of the soil been freed From cockle that oppressed the noble seed David for him his tuneful harp had strung, And heaven had wanted one immortal song. But wild Ambition loves to slide, not stand, And Fortune's ice prefers to Virtue's land. Achitophel, grown weary to possess A lawful fame and lazy happiness, Disdained the golden fruit to gather free, And lent the crowd his arm to shake the tree. Now, manifest of crimes contrived long since, He stood at bold defiance with his prince Held up the buckler of the people's cause Against the crown, and skulked behind the laws. -@ History of the Turks @1603 , under a@portrait@of Mustapha, are the lines ' Greatness on goodness loves to slide, not stand, And leaves for Fortune's ice Virtue's firm land 
 PATIENCE. Duke. What comfort do you find in being so calm ? Candido. That which green wounds receive from sovereign balm. Patience, my lord ! why, 'tis the soul of peace Of all the virtues 'tis nearest kin to heaven It makes men look like gods. The best of men That e'er wore earth about him was a sufferer, A soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit, The first true gentleman that ever breathed. The stock of patience then cannot be poor All it desires, it has what award more ? It is the greatest enemy to law That can be, for it doth embrace all wrongs, And so chains up lawyers and women's tongues 'Tis the perpetual prisoner's liberty, His walks and orchards 'tis the bond-slave's freedom, And makes him seem proud of his iron chain, As though he wore it more for state than pain It is the beggar's music, and thus sings,@-Although their bodies beg, their souls are kings. O my dread liege ! it is the sap of bliss, Bears us aloft, makes men and angels kiss And last of all, to end a household strife It is the honey 'gainst a waspish wife. 1602. -@Dekker. LXXV. A MOTHER'S BLESSING. BE thou blessed, Bertram ! and succeed thy father In manners as in shape ! Thy blood and virtue Contend for empire in thee and thy goodness Share with thy birthright. Love all, trust a few Do wrong to none be able for thine enem
 fishermen, that walk upon the beach, Appear like mice and yond tall anchoring bark, Diminished to her cock her cock, a buoy Almost too .small for sight the murmuring surge, That on the unnumbered idle pebbles chafes, Cannot be heard so high.@-@I'll look no more Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight Topple down headlong. -@King Lear, iv. 6. LXXXV. CLEOPATRA'S BARGE. THE barge she sat in, like a burnished throne, Burnt on the water the poop was beaten gold Purple the sails, and so perfumed that The winds were love-sick with them the oars were silver Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made The water, which they beat, to follow faster, As amorous of their strokes. For her own person, It beggared all description she did lie In her pavilion@-@cloth-of-gold, of tissue@-O'er-picturing that Venus where we see The fancy out-work nature on each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids, With divers-coloured fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool, And what they undid, did. Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides, So many mermaids, tender her i' the eyes, And made their bends adornings at the helm A seeming mermaid steers the silken tackle Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands, That yarely frame the office. From the barge A strange invisible perfume hits the sen
 universal Nature did lament, When, by the rout that made the hideous roar, His gory visage down the stream was sent, Down the swift Hebrus to the Lesbian shore ? Alas ! what boots it with incessant care To tend the homely, slighted, shepherd's trade, And strictly meditate the thankless Muse ? Were it not better done, as others use, To sport with Amaryllis in the shade, Or with the tangles of Neaera's hair ? Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise, That last infirmity of noble mind To scorn delights, and live laborious days But the fair guerdon when we hope to find, And think to burst out into sudden blaze, Comes the blind Fury with the abhorrèd shears And slits the thin-spun life. ' But not the praise,' Phoebus replied, and touched my trembling ears ' Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil, Nor in the glistering foil Set off to the world, nor in broad rumour lies But lives and spreads aloft by those pure eyes And perfect witness of all-judging Jove As he pronounces lastly on each deed, Of so much fame in heaven expect thy meed.' O fountain Arethuse, and thou honoured flood Smooth-sliding Mincius, crowned with vocal reeds ! That strain I heard was of a higher mood But now my oat proceeds, And listens to the herald of the sea That came in Neptune's plea He asked the waves, and asked the felon winds, What hard mishap hath doomed this gentle swain ? And questioned every gust of rugged wing
 blows from off each beaked promontory They knew not of his story And sage Hippotadés their answer brings, That not a blast was from his dungeon strayed The air was calm, and on the level brine Sleek Panopé with all her sisters played. It was that fatal and perfidious bark Built in the eclipse and rigged with curses dark, That sunk so low that sacred head of thine. Next Camus, reverend sire, went footing slow, His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge, Inwrought with figures dim, and on the edge Like to that sanguine flower inscribed with woe ' Ah ! who hath reft,' quoth he, ' my dearest pledge !@' Last came, and last did go The pilot of the Galilean lake Two massy keys he bore of metals twain, The golden opes, the iron shuts amain He shook his mitred locks, and stern bespake -' How well could I have spared for thee, young swain, Enow of such as for their bellies' sake Creep, and intrude, and climb into the fold ! Of other care they little reckoning make Than how to scramble at the shearers' feast, And shove away the worthy bidden guest@! Blind mouths ! that scarce themselves know how to hold A sheep-hook, or have learned aught else the least That to the faithful herdman's art belongs ! What recks it them ? What need they ? They are sped And when they list, their lean and flashy songs Grate on their scrannel pipes of wretched  AEolus, the God of the Wind
Mr. Bubbs, a respectable Leadenhall slaughter-man, Worth a plum, had retired, a very nice sort of man Determined his family should shine with propri@-ety, A@@mo@ng the ' elite ' of well bre@d society. He hired French masters to teach them behavi-our. And took a large house in the square of Bel-gravi@@a, As he says to his spouse, ere our high friends we call on 'em, We'll give a good blow out, free gratis, to all of 'em. @Fol de rol, c. Now Mrs. Bubbs said as such was his wish and hers, He must go to some bloke who dealt in musi-ci@aners, For of course they'd have a grand ball after feeding, Just to show the Belgravians their very high breeding. Bubbs swore he'd be jolly, and sport a good sum for it, So he ottered Sims Reeves two bob if he'd come for it, Though he didn't like what they term foreign fallario, Yet @he wouldn't mind standing five bob to hear Mario. Fol de rol, c. Not being @quite ' an fait ' at polite invitations, In Bell's Life he inserted to friends and relations, Mr. Bubbs intends giving a grand evening party, And hopes they'll all make themselves jolly and hearty. He had hand-bills printed, made his flunkey de-liver 'em, And told the bill-stickers the walls all to kiver 'em On the step of his door, a yard of clay blowing it, Gave his invites away, hospitality showing it. Mr. Bubb in his rambles, picked up a street tumbler, Brought him home, tho' at that Mrs. Bubbs was a grumbler He engaged a big drum and four cracked cor-nopeans,@@@@@@ @With two Punch and Judy's, and live Ethio-pians, An@d a party of vocalists, whom he heard mut@@-tering, @@Wanting no work to do, standing the gutter in A bargain he struck for their voices like bore-asses, Just to give a few glees, and to cut off the choruses. Fol lol de rol, c. Mr. Bubbs, to the horror of folks well-bred and all, Drove home a large bullock and a sheep from Leadenhall, Crying out, these ain't yer warmints they chops up for sassages, And skull dragg'd them at last down his area passages He turned his back drawing room into a slaugh-ter-h@ouse, By washing their@ carcasses he made it a water-house @@@@@He killed them himself, cause he knew how to slaughter meat, And from the balcony hung them, to show folks the sort of meat. Fol lol de rol, c.  His son, Joey Bubbs, heir to the grand enter-tainment, Exerted himself to complete the arrangements, He invited fast fellows, from black-legs to sen  the feed in the name of his honoured  night of the party, his dog-cart he drove it up, And a butt of pale ale to the hall door hove it up Twenty medical students he brought, and some writing men, With a giant from Norfo@lk-@Sam Hall, and two fighting men. Fol lol de rol, @c. The banquet was put on the table splendaci-ously,-ously, Mrs. B. and the junior B's smiling so graciously The worthy host begg'd the feed they'd begin at it, As how there was plenty, to take and peg into it. The bull, roasted whole, a noble appearance made, But down to the bones very soon they a clearance made Young Joe filled his plate full of soup with a narrow glass, And said it was stunning with pickles and spa-ragrass. Fol lol de rol, c. Now the medical boys the decanters all broke about, Drank like fishes, and puff'd huge volumes of smoke about The men of the press not being used to gas-tronomy, Gorg'd away till dark purple was each physi-ognomy. The band and glee party walk'd into the grub-bery, And filled their large drum for a feed in the shrubbery Whilst the pugilist showing them how he coul@d wring a glass, Blew his nose in his napkin and spit in his finger  glass. Fol lol de rol, c. When the ban@quet was over, the music Bubbs called for it, But, says Joey, old buffer, I'm sure there's no need for it, For the niggers, blind drunk, into your wine they are pitching, sir, And the tumbler he's doing his splits in the kit-chen, sir. The glee party after devouring your sweetables, Have disappeared with your plate and your eatables Sam Hall and the bruisers, both milling for glory are, And the giant's eloped with your daughter Victoria. Fol lol de rol, c. Now the two Punch and Judy's at no great amount 'd both @their theatres full of linen and  vanished away while old Bubbs the  to clear out the hall as they went along  as he swore, when he found they'd  waf stole@n and smashed in the house would half ruin him @@@@Next day from Belgravia he moved, in disgust with  vowed a grand party no more he'd be cuss'd. with it. Fol lol de rol, 
 ere we part here woman I drinke to you, and regard not his words, for he is babbling wheresoeuer he comes. Quoth the woman, Nothing grieues me so much, as that hee should thus openly checke mee if he had found any thing amisse, he might haue spied a better time to tell mee of it then nowe, ywis he need not thrust my bad huswifrie into my husbands head, I liue not so quietly with him, God wot and with that she wept. Come Cutbert, quoth they, drinke to her, and shake hands and be friends. Come on, you puling baggage, quoth he, I drinke to you, here will you pledge mee and shake hands ? No, quoth shee I will see thee choackt first, shake hands with thee ? I will shake hands with the deuill as soone. Goe to, said her husband, you shall shake hands with him then If you will not shake hands, Ile shake you what, you young huswife ? Well, husband, said she, it becomes a woman to obey her husband, in regard whereof, I drink to him. Thats well said, quoth the company and so she tooke her leave and went downe. And within a while after they paid the shot, and departed thence to Iarrats Hall, where they went to their lodging and the next day they tooke their way homeward alltogether and comming to Colebrooke, they tooke vp their lodging and it was Coles custome to deliuer his money to the good wife of the house to keepe it till morning, which in the end turned to his vtter destruction, as hereafter shall be shewe
 Heaven, as at some festival, Will open wide the gates of her high palace hall. But wisest Fate says No, This must not yet be so, The Babe lies yet in smiling infancy, That on the bitter cross Must redeem our loss, So both Himself and us to glorify Yet first, to those ychained in sleep, The wakeful trump of doom must thunder through the deep, With such a horrid clang As on Mount Sinai rang, While the red fire and smouldering clouds outbrake The agèd earth aghast, With terror of that blast, Shall from the surface to the centre shake When, at the world's last session, The dreadful Judge in middle air shall spread His throne. And then at last our bliss Full and perfect is, But now begins for from this happy day The old Dragon, under ground In straiter limits bound, Not half so far casts his usurpèd sway, And, wroth to see his kingdom fail, Swindges the scaly horror of his folded tail. The oracles are dumb, No voice or hideous  It was frequently noted by the Christian Fathers that from the birth of Christ the oracles and heathen divinities lost their inspiration. See also Paradise Regained, i. 456-46
 NIGHT THOUGHTS. TIRED Nature's sweet restorer, balmy Sleep ! He, like the world, his ready visit pays Where Fortune smiles the wretched he forsakes Swift on his downy pinion flies from woe, And lights on lids unsullied with a tear. From short as usual and disturbed repose I wake how happy the@y who wake no more ! Yet that were vain, if dreams infest the grave. I wake, emerging from a sea of dreams Tumultuous where my wrecked desponding thought From wave to wave of fancied misery At random drove, her helm of reason lost. Though now restored, 'tis only change of pain@-A bitter change !@-@severer for severe The day too short for my distress and Night, E'en in the zenith of her dark domain, Is sunshine to the colour of my fate. Night, sable goddess, from her ebon throne, In rayless majesty, now stretches forth Her leaden sceptre o'er a slumbering world. Silence how dead ! and darkness how profound ! Nor eye nor listening ear an object finds Creation sleeps. 'Tis as the general pulse Of life stood still, and Nature made a pause, An awful pause ! prophetic of her end. And let her prophecy be soon fulfilled Fate ! drop the curtain I can lose no more. -@ are the opening lines of Young's long didactic poem consisting of nine Books or Nights, published 1742-174
 nets and stratagems to catch us in, Bibles laid open, millions of surprises Blessings before hand, ties of gratefulness, The sound of Glory ringing in our ears Without, our shame within, our consciences Angels and grace, eternal hopes and fears ! Yet all these fences, and their whole array, One cunning bosom-sin blows quite away. -@Herbert. CXXI. A WISH. THIS only grant me, that my means may lie Too low for envy, for contempt too high. Some honour I would have, Not from great deeds, but good alone. The unknown are better than ill-known Rumour can ope the grave. Acquaintance I would have, but when't depends Not on the number, but the choice of friends. Books should, not business, entertain the light, And sleep, as undisturbed as death, the night. My house a cottage, more Than palace, and should fitting be For all my use, not luxury. My garden painted o'er With Nature's hand, not art's and pleasures yield, Horace might envy in his Sabine field. Thus would I double my life's fading space, For he that runs it well, twice runs his race And in this true delight, These unbought sports, this happy state, Out of eleven stanzas. Written in 163@1 when Cowley was only thirteen years old, and published in Poetical Blossoms, 2nd ed., 163
 to aske the other, if they heard not of the cruell murder of Thomas of Beading ? W@hat, said the rest, is old Cole murdered ? when, I pray you was the dee I done ? The otheranswered, on Friday last. O good Lord, said the women, how was it done, can you tell ? As report goes, said the other, he was rosted aliue. O pitifull ! was hee roasted ? Indeed I heard one say, a man was murdred at London, and that he was sodden at an Inholders house, and serued it to the guests in stead of porke. No neighbour, it was not at London, said another I heare say twas coming from London, at a place called Colebrook, and it is reported for truth, that the Inholder made pies of him, and penny pasties, yea, and made his owne seruant eate a piece of him. But I pray you good neighbour, can you tell how it was knowne some say, that a horse reuealed it. Now by the masse quoth Grayes wife it was told one of my neighbours, that a certaine horse did speake, and told great things. That sounds like a lie, said one of them. Why, said another, may not a horse speake, as well as Balaam asse ? It may be, but it is vnlikely, said the third. But where was the horse when he spake ? As some say, qd. she, he was in the field, and had broke out of the stable, where he stood fast locked in mighty strong yron fetters, which hee burst in peeces as they had beene straws, and broke downe the stable doore, and so got away. The good-man comming in at these speeches, asked what that was they talkt o
 and sometimes beyond that town, eight hundred or one thou-sand miles up the Orinoco. I found it difficult to realize that up the Orinoco was down South. The currents of nearly every river in the United States, from the Passamaquoddy to the Sacramento, run generally in a southerly direction therefore it is difficult for Americans to conceive of a great river flowing toward the north. But there are Americas-@North America and South America, for instance. The trip up the Orinoco is said to be exceedingly interest-ing and well worth the time consumed in taking it therefore, being of a truant disposition, endowed with a spirit of globe-trotting, I longed to secure board and lodgings on the stern-wheel caravansary, to the end that I might reside in it for a month while the aquatic absurdity scrambled into the interior of South America, reached its ultima thule, turned about, and jogged back again to the place of its departure. When I landed at Port of Spain, strolling from the wharf into the town, my curiosity was first awakened by the sight of flocks of tame vultures, limping about the streets, dabbling in the gutters, strutting on the sidewalks, quarrelling for the refuse and garbage in ash-barrels and muck-heaps. They flapped their ill-omened wings in short flights, from curb to curb, from pavement to house-top, where they brooded, like the filthy rumors Virgil rhymes about. Did a mangy tramp-dog unearth a rotten bone, a bald-headed vulture sailed down upon him and robbed him of his prize. Did an outcast cat catch a mouse, be-fore she could scramble over a fence with her prey one of these feathered sneak-thieves bolted with her rations, hobbling, meantime, as fast as it could go to escape from its greedy companions, who came limping after it, with outstretched necks and gaping beaks. These vultures are very tame indeed, their tameness was horrible to me@-@it seemed immoral to suffer them to walk beside you@-@they looked like familiar spirits or temptations of the evil one. They feared not the face of man their impudence was simply fiendish. They neither re-spected nor considered me more than they did a lamp-post moreove
 London -@H. Such, Printer and Publisher, 177, Union St I'll contrive The men all strive to gain my heart, I'm'blunt to Cupid's piercing dart, Men are so sly, they wink their eye, But that, through I plainly see, Then pity my sex who wrong @have done, That's led by the twirl of a husband's tongne, As for me, I'll be free, Love shall never conquer me, Fal, lal ral lal, fal ral lal. When I was young, when I was young, I found out man's deceitful tongue, They oft would flatter, hoax and coax, To gain my love by funny jokes, But I know still they'd have their will, And shake me off like easy gloves, Higgledy, piggledy, fie for shame, It is the female sex I blame, Who ought to know with all their loves, That men are hawks and we are doves. Do you think I'd marry, oh ! no, not I To have six brats to squall and cry, Six brats I am to have I know, The fortune teller told me so, And more than that, she told me flat, My husband then from me would fly Higgledy, piggledy, needles and pins, Matrimony and sorrow begins, A maid I'll live, and a maid I'll die, @@Since man's love to me is all my eye.@@ Beware ye then, beware ye then, Of vile, deceitful, artful men, My duck, my love, my dearest dear, Oh ! don't believe, for they'll deceive, @@Oh ! have a doubt on all they say, Think how you have to wash and blue, And mend the holes in his stockings too, While they with others strut about, Oh ! Heaven be praised I found them out. Once more, before I say, 'Good bye,' Avoid the man that winks his eye, He often will your fingers press, Your former beauty praise and bless, Your heart is gone, you feel forlorn, And then become his lassie, O ! There's nought but strife in a wedding ring, So merry and single I'll dance and s@ing, And drink to all maids both old and young, In a bumping glass of sherry. O !@ Y parents reared me tenderly, Me being the youngest son From a child I had a notion, To follow the fife and drum. I courted a young and pretty maid, @And soon she won my heart, She first advised me to enlist, And secondly to desert. Once I thought I ne'er should be, In this dejected state, A poor distracted effigy, Exposed to hardships great The birds that flutter on the tree. @@@Strikes terror to my heart, And every star alarmeth me, Oh ! why did I desert ? It was liquor caused me to go astr@ay, And from my colours fly, What a poor coward I was that day, The same I can't deny Cursed liquor caused me astray to go, And baffled every thought, My life is now a scene of woe, Oh ! why did I desert ? I was under cover of a tree, Where I was forced to lie, To shelter from my enemies, Although my friends were nigh, Just like the owl that hides by day, I durst not show my face, Soon my journey I'll pursue, And seek some friendly place. My brother he came riding by, Not knowing I was there, My voice aloud to him did cry, But me he could not hear His horse was borne from me away, I could not bring him too, Soon distressed I must be, Not knowing what to do. My sword and sash and my blue coat, To them I left behind, And on my journey did pursue, Some secret place to find. To the light horse I bid adieu, Which once was my delight, And then my journey I'll pursue, And travel in the nigh
 no hope is, life's a warning That only serves to make us grieve When we are old -That only serves to make us grieve With oft and tedious taking-leave, Like some poor nigh-related guest, That may not rudely be dismissed, Yet hath out-stayed his welcome while, And tells the jest without the smile. 1810. -@Coleridge. CCCXIV. THE ISLES OF OCEAN. OH ! many are the beauteous isles Unknown to human eye, That, sleeping 'mid the ocean smiles, In happy silence lie. The ship may pass them in the night, Nor the sailors know what a lovely sight Is resting on the main Some wandering ship who hath lost her way, And never, or by night or day, Shall pass these isles again. There, groves that bloom in endless spring Are rustling to the radiant wing Of birds, in various plumage bright, As rainbow hues, or dawning light. Soft-falling showers of blossoms fair Float ever on the fragrant air, Like showers of vernal snow, And from the fruit-tree spreading tall The richly ripened clusters fall Oft as sea-breezes blow. The sun and clouds alone possess The joy of all that lovelines
 found out a gift for my fair, I have found where the wood-pigeons breed But let me that plunder forbear, She will say, 'twas a barbarous deed, For he ne'er could be true, she averred, Who could rob a poor bird of its young And I loved her the more when I heard Such tenderness fall from her tongue. I have heard her with sweetness unfold How that pity was due to a dove, That it ever attended the bold, And she called it the sister of Love. But her words such a pleasure convey, So much I her accents adore, Let her speak, and whatever she say, Methinks I should love her the more. Can a bosom so gentle remain Unmoved when her Corydon sighs ? Will a nymph that is fond of the plain, These plains and this valley despise ? Dear regions of silence and shade Soft scenes of contentment and ease ! Where I could have pleasingly strayed, If aught in her absence could please. But where does my Phyllida stray ? And where are her grots and her bowers ? Are the groves and the valleys as gay, And the shepherds as gentle as ours ? The groves may perhaps be as fair, And the face of the valley as fine The swains may in manners compare, But their love is not equal to mine. -@Shenston
 was a place of his chiefe residence during his life, saying to the Clothiers, that seeing he found them such faithfull subiects, he would be their neighbour, and dwell among them. After his Maiesties Royall feasting at Reading, he proceeded in progresse, till he had visited the whole West-countries, being wondrously delighted, to see those people so diligent to apply their businesse and com-ming to Salisbury, the Bishop receiued his Maiesty with great ioy, and with triumph attended on his Grace to his Palace, where his Highnesse lodged. There Sutton the Clothier presented his Highnesse with a broad cloth, of so fine a thread, and exceeding good workmanship, and therewithall of so faire a colour, as his Grace gaue commendation thereof, and as it is said, he held it in such high estimation, that there of he made his Parliament robes, and the first Parliament that was euer in England, was graced with the Kings person in those robes, in requitall whereof his Highness after-ward yeelded Sutton many princely fauours. And it is to be remembred, that Simon of South-hampton seeing the King had ouerpast the place where he dwelt came with his wife and seruants to Salisbury, and against the K. going forth of that City, hee caused a most pleasant arbour to be made vpon the toppe of the hill leading to Salisburie, beset all with red and white roses, in such sort,that not anypart of the tim-ber could be seene, within the which sat a maiden at-tired like a Queen, attended on by a faire traine 
 two seruantes brought Robert a bedde to slepe there on, but he poynted to here it awaye ayene, for he had leuer to lye upon the floure and colde erth, than upon a softe bedde, whereof themperour had grete meruayle, and commaunded that men sholde bere hym clene strawe, whiche they dyde, than Robert whiche was feynte and wery of goynge, layde hym downe to slepe on the strawe. Now haue this in your myndes, he proude hertes and synners, thynke on Roberts grete penaunce and wylfull pouerte, and how he so grete a gentylman borne, forsoke his fader and his moder, and all his frendes, and his countree and lande, and all his dylycate metes and drynkes, and gaue raymentes and wordely pleasure, with all that of suche a state aper-teyneth, how wyllyngly he hathe all forsaken for the saluacyon of his soule, and is gone out of a duke's bedde to a dogges canell, and with dogges he ete and dranke and slepte and rose whan they rose, and in this penaunce lyued Robert vii yeres or there aboute, and the dogge that he communly slept with all per-ceyued that he foure the better, and had more mete for Robert's sake, than he was wonte to haue before, and that no man dyde bete hym for his sake, wherfore he began to loue Robert passynge well in so moche men myghte as soone haue kylled hym as dryuen hym from Robert. How Robert made a Jewe to kysse his dogges arse at the Emperour's table. IT befell upon a tyme that themperoure helde a gre
 a man of Law at the Barre, and he wagers with them four crownes to twaine the others agreed, to worke they go but Crab conquered them all. Where-upon the London Weauers were nipt in the head like birds, and had not a word to say. Now, saith Crab, as we haue lost nothing, so you haue wonne nothing, and because I know you cannot be right Weauers, except you be good-fellowes, therefore if you will goe with vs, we will bestow the Ale vpon you. That is spoken like a good-fellow and like a Weauer, quoth the other. So along they went as it were to the signe of the red Crosse. When they were set downe, and had drunke well, they began merrily to prattle, and to extoll Crab to the skies. Whereupon Crab protested, that hee would come and dwell among them. Nay, that must not be, said a London Weauer the King hath giuen vspriuiledge, that none should liue among us, but such as serue seuen yeeres in London. With that Crab, according to his old @maner of prophesying, said thus The day is very neere at hand, When as the King of this faire Land, Shal priuiledge you more then so Then Weauers shall in skarlet goe. And to one brotherhood be brought, The first is in London wrought, When other Trades-men by your fame, Shall couet all to doe the sam
 YOUTH AND AGE. CRABBED Age and Youth cannot live together. Youth is full of pleasance, Age is full of care Youth like summer morn, Age like winter weather, Youth like summer brave, Age like winter bare. Youth is full of sport, Age's breath is short Youth is nimble, Age is lame Youth is hot and bold, Age is weak and cold, Youth is wild, and Age is tame -Age, I do abhor thee, Youth, I do adore thee Oh ! my Love, my Love is young. Age, I do defy thee,@-@O sweet shepherd, hie thee, For methinks thou stay'st too long. -@Shakspere, The Passionate Pilgrim. LXVIII. UNDER THE GREENWOOD TREE. UNDER the greenwood tree Who loves to lie with me, And tune his merry note Unto the sweet bird's throat@-Come hither, come hither, come hither ! Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather. Who doth ambition shun And loves to live i' the sun, Seeking the food he eats, And pleased with what he gets@-Come hither, come hither, come hither ! Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather. -@As You Like It, ii.
 SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE. COME live with me, and be my love, And we will all the pleasures prove, That hills and valleys, dales and fields, Woods or steepy mountains yields. And we will sit upon the rocks, Seeing the shepherds feed their flocks, By shallow rivers to whose falls Melodious birds sing madrigals. And I will make thee beds of roses And a thousand fragrant posies A cap of flowers, and a kirtle Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle A gown made of the finest wool, Which from our pretty lambs we pull Fair linèd slippers for the cold, With buckles of the purest gold A belt of straw and ivy-buds, With coral clasps and amber studs And if these pleasures may thee move, Come live with me, and be my love. The shepherd-swains shall dance and sing, For thy delight, each May morning -If these delights thy mind may move, Then live with me, and be my love. -Marlowe. These two pieces were first printed complete in England's Helicon 1600 , The Nymph's Reply having the signature of ' Ignoto '. Passionate here means ' in love,' so too in Passionate Pilgrim. ' As I left this place and entered into the next field, a second pleasure entertained me 'twas a handsome milk-maid she ca
 I then only silent be, And no return be made by me ? No ! let this wish upon me wait, And still to flourish be thy fate, To future ages may'st thou stand Untouched by the rash workman's hand, Till that large stock of sap is spent Which gives thy summer's ornament Till the fierce winds, that vainly strive To shock thy greatness whilst alive, Shall on thy lifeless hour attend, Prevent the axe and grace thy end, Their scattered strength together call, And to the clouds proclaim thy fall, Who then their evening dews may spare, When thou no longer art their care, But shalt, like ancient heroes, burn, And some bright hearth be made thy urn. 1713. -@Lady Winchilsea. CCVIII. SOLILOQUY ON THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL. IT must be so ! Plato, thou reasonest well, Else whence this pleasing hope, this fond desire, This longing after immortality ? Or whence this secret dread and inward horror Of falling into nought ? Why shrinks the soul Back on herself and startles at destruction ? -'Tis the Divinity that stirs within us, 'Tis Heaven itself that points out an hereafter, And intimates eternity to@man. Eternity !@-@thou pleasing, dreadful thought@! Through what variety of untried being@-Through what new scenes and changes must we pass
 that scant in a bodies life time, they shall meet with the like. I protest, I would circuit England roundabout on my bare feet to meet with her againe. O, my Meg was surely stole away from me, else would she not haue gone in such sort. Her husband on the other side grieued as much, and rested not night nor day riding vp and downe to seeke her but shee poore soule, is fast lockt vp in prison, and therfore cannot be met withall. But when the King vnderstood of his brothers es-cape, hee was maruelous wroth, giuing great charge and commandement when he was taken, that both his eyes should be put out and be kept in prison till his dying day appointing also that the Maid should lose her life for presumption of louing him. This matter being rumoured ouer all England, it came to the eares of Gray and his wife, who hearing that Margaret also was there in prison appointed to die, the good aged woman neuer rested till she came to the Court, where kneeling before the King with many teares she besought his Maiestie to spare the Maidens life, saying, Most royall King consider, I humbly beseech you, that the Duke your brother was able to entice any woman to his loue much more a silly Maiden, espe-cially promising her marriage, to make her a Lady, a Dutchesse, or a Queene, who would refuse such an offer, when at the instant they might get both a princely hus-band and a high dignity if death be a Louers guerdo
 castles on the cliffs arise, Proudly towering in the skies ! Rushing from the woods, the spires Seem from hence ascending fires ! Half his beams Apollo sheds On the yellow mountain-heads ! Gilds the fleeces of the flocks, And glitters on the broken rocks ! Below me trees unnumbered rise, Beautiful in various dyes The gloomy pine, the poplar blue, The yellow beech, the sable yew, The slender fir, that taper grows, The sturdy oak with broad-spread boughs. And beyond the purple grove, Haunt of Phyllis, queen of love ! Gaudy as the opening dawn, Lies a long and level lawn, On which a dark hill, steep and high, Holds and charms the wandering eye ! Deep are his feet in Towy's flood, His sides are clothed with waving wood, And ancient towers crown his brow, That cast an awful look below Whose ragged walls the ivy creeps, And with her arms from falling keeps, So both a safety from the wind On mutual dependence find. 'Tis now the raven's bleak abode T'is now the apartment of the toad And there the fox securely feeds, And there the poisonous adder breeds, Concealed in ruins, moss, and weeds While, ever and anon, there fal
 the centre, is substituted in the last leaf for the print of the Virgin with Jesus in her arms, in the Cambridge copy. An imitation or reprint of this translation was pub-lished in 12mo. by James Roberts, and in the same year by Nicholas Ling,-@see Herbert's Ames, vol. ii. p. 1033@-@vol. iii. p. 1341 and in Bibl. Rawlinsoniana, No. 331, 22d Jan. 1727-8, is The famous historical life of Robert II. Duke of Normandy, surnamed for his monstrous birth and behaviour, Robin the Divell. 4to. London, 1599. Whatever may have been the origin of this romance it has obviously enjoyed a very large share of popular favour. Besides the French and English Version to which reference has already been made, this History exists both in Dutch and Spanish. Mone in his @Ueber-sicht der Niederlandischen Volks-Literatur, mentions a Dutch book on the subject printed in 1621 and in the library of the British Museum is a Spanish edition in 4to. printed at Madrid about the year 1@810 under the title of Espantosa y maravillosa Vida de Roberto el Diablo, hijo del Duque de Normandia, el cual despues fué llamado Hombre de Dios. Those who may be inclined  greater length the history of this Romance, to which additional interest has been given by the fact of its forming the groundwork of Meyerbeer's beautiful opera, are r
 one time, millions of acres of land in Western Europe were given up to the growing of madder, a plant from which the base of almost every color used by dyers is obtainable. Since the discovery of ani-line dyes, the madder industry, no longer profitable to anyone, has been neglected moreover, as the soil that yielded the largest crops of that plant was found to favor the growth of the subsidized beetroot, it is not to be wondered at that, in a few years, the profits of the sugar-cane planters of the West Indies@-@indeed, of planters in all parts of the world including our own Louisiana -@vanished into thin air with the smoke vomited from the chimneys of their sugar-houses. Of the total annual product of sugar in all parts of the earth@-@an almost in-credible quantity of sweetness, by the by@-@nearly one-half is, in these latter days, manufactured from beetroot, grown in various parts of the world. Sugar-cane has other competitors in the substance called glucose, which is procured from starch, and yields, in turn, various compounds termed saccharates as well as saccharose, distilled from coal-tar, and these cheap products have, in many ways, superseded cane-sugar, and have served still further to reduce the price of that commodity. A century ago it was said that Barbados could produce more sugar than all the people of Europe could consume@-@could pay for, would be a more accurate way of putting it@-@for Brillat-Savarin states that, in his early days, sugar was sold in the shops of Paris for the equivalent of four shillings sterling a pound. He mentions a cer-tain M. Delacroix who used to grumble at the high price he had to pay for that luxury. Ah ! he would say, in his gentle way, if ever it should come to be sold at a shilling, I shall never drink water without sugar in it. The price rapidly fell to lower figures, for the author of Physiologie du Gout records that, after the peace of 1783, sugar was to be had for a shilling the pound, and he good-naturedly expresses the hope that his old acquaintance might still be alive, and able to satisfy his craving for eau sucr@ée. The MM. Delacroix of our day can buy five or six pounds of sugar for a shilling, and the Bar-badians bewail the impending ruin of their island they call on En
 theose antique crownlet long Still sparkled in the feudal song, Now, from the mountain's misty throne, Sees, in the thanedom once his own, His ashes undistinguished lie, His place, his power, his memory die His groans the lonely caverns fill, His tears of rage impel the rill All mourn the Minstrel's harp unstrung, Their name unknown, their praise unsung. -@The Lay of the Last Minstrel, canto v. CCCV. TO AN EARLY PRIMROSE. MILD offspring of a dark and sullen sire ! Whose modest form, so delicately fine, Was nursed in whirling storms, And cradled in the winds. Thee, when young Spring first questioned Winter's sway, And dared the sturdy blusterer to the fight, Thee on this bank he threw To mark his victory. In this low vale, the promise of the year, Serene, thou openest to the nipping gale, Unnoticed and alone, Thy tender elegance, So Virtue blooms, brought forth amid the storms Of chill adversity in some lone walk Of life she rears her head, Obscure and unobserved While every bleaching breeze that on her blows Chastens her spotless purity of breast, And hardens her to bear Serene the ills of life. -@Kirke Whit
 plain to you the fact remains, That talents great I always c@hoose 'em, And that I'm well stock'd with brains, And very well @know how to use 'em, I've prov'd myseif a man of sense, Of cunning too, with science teeming-So you'il allow ere I go hence, I'm not so simple s I'm seemin@g. And thus, etc.  Tune@-@Murphy's Weather Eye. Some people think that they can judge, Man's temper by his cast of features@-But sure their system is all fudge, To prove such folks but stupid creatures, For if he has a clownish face, A phiz with ignorance all teeming, Yet by his actions you may trace, He's not so simyle as he's seeming, And so it is, indeed, with I, @For though I look as if I'm dreaming, It is because I'm rather shy, I'm not so simple as I'm seeming. For I can walk each London Street, Sure and certain slow or faster@-An@d 'tis seldom that I meet, With anyihing like a disaster Except, perhaps, I get knoek'd down, By folks that rudely on are streaming@-And though I get a broken crown, I'm not so simple as I'm seaming. And thus etc. I often lose my hat and cloak, My whip, my cane, my new umbrella, A fact that isn't any joke, Because I'm such a careful fel!ow, They steal my pocket-book and pelf, I lose my watch to aid the se@heming But yet I never lose myself, I'm not so simple as I'm seeming. And thus, etc. O ne afternoon I met a man, Who seem'd quite struck with recollection, Says he, ' Dear sir try if you can, Remember me, upen reflection.' Thou@gh I'd not seen his face  he was honest I was deeming@@ @-ent @him twenty pounds and  not so simple as I'm seeming. And thus, etc. And o@nce I raahly fell in love, With neighbour Wilson's only daughter. And though to save myself I strove, Yet little Cupid gave no quarter, But in her presence how absurd ! With love I felt that I was teeming@-But la ! I couldn't say a word, I'm not so simple as I'm seeming. And thus, @etc. One day I went to take a stroll, And through the fields poor I was straying, On coming to a grassy knell, I saw some children who were playing, But oh ! they ali well larrup'd me, Till from my eyes the tears were streaming ! And then they tied me to a tree,@ I'm not so simple as I'm seeming, And thus, etc. GATHER YE ROSEBUDS. Gather ye rose buds while ye may, Old time is still a flying, And that same flower which blooms to day, To-morrow may be dying. The gloriious lamp, or Heavenly Sun, The higher he is getting, The sooner will his ace be run, Nearer to east is setting. Then gather, @@c. When in the days of youth and love, The heart with joy is glowing, O remember age will soon remove, Those plasue's now are flowing, Then be not coy, use your time, As you may go marry, For having lost but once your prime, You may for ever tarry. Then gather, c.@@@ William Jaekson Son, l. t Russell, Prin-ters, Moor-@street, 
 if for Shakspeare we your grace implore, We for our theatre shall want it more Who, by our dearth of youths, are forced to employ One of our women to present a boy And that's a transformation, you will say, Exceeding all the magic in the play. -@Dryden. CLXXV. ADAM AND EVE. TWO of far nobler shape, erect and tall, Godlike erect, with native honour clad, In naked majesty, seemed lords of all And worthy seemed for in their looks divine The image of their glorious Maker shone Truth, wisdom, sanctitude severe and pure, Severe, but in true filial freedom placed, Whence true authority in men though both Not equal, as their sex not equal seemed For contemplation he and valour formed, For softness she, and sweet attractive grace He for God only, she for God in him. His fair large front and eye sublime declared Absolute rule and hyacinthine locks Round from his parted forelock manly hung Clustering, but not beneath his shoulders broad She as a veil, down to the slender waist, Her unadorned golden tresses wore Dishevelled, but in wanton ringlets waved, As the vine curls her tendrils, which implied Subjection, but required with gentle sway, And by her yielded, by him best received, Yielded with coy submission, modest pride, And sweet, reluctant, amorous delay. -@Paradise Lost, iv. 288-3
 among enemies, O worse than chains, Dungeon, or beggary, or decrepit age ! Light, the prime work of God, to me is extinct, And all her various objects of delight Annulled, which might in part my grief have eased. Inferior to the vilest now become Of man or worm, the vilest here excel me They creep, yet see I, dark in light, exposed To daily fraud, contempt, abuse, and wrong. Within doors or without, still as a fool. In power of others, never in my own Scarce half I seem to live, dead more than half. O dark, dark, dark, amid the blaze of noon, Irrecoverably dark, total eclipse Without all hope of day ! O first created beam, and thou great Word, ' Let there be light, and light was over all,' Why am I thus bereaved thy prime decree ? The sun to me is dark And silent as the moon, When she deserts the night, Hid in her vacant interlunar cave. Since light so necessary is to life, And almost life itself, if it be true That light is in the soul, She all in ever ' part, why was the sight To such a tender ball as the eye confined, So obvious and so easy to be quenched ? And not, as feeling, through all parts diffused, That she might look at will through every pore ? Then had I not been thus exiled from light, As in the land of darkness, yet in light. To live a life half dead, a living death, And buried but, O yet more miserable
 gods they were, as men they died ' Here are sands, ignoble things, Dropt from the ruined sides of kings Here's a world of pomp and state, Buried in dust, once dead by fate. -@Beaumont. XC. WOLSEY'S REMORSE. WHAT sudden anger's this ? how have I reaped it ? He parted frowning from me, as if ruin Leaped from his eyes so looks the chafed lion Upon the daring huntsman that has galled him, Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so This paper has undone me 'tis the account Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together For mine own ends indeed to gain the popedom, And fee my friends in Rome.@-@O negligence, Fit for a fool to fall by ! What cross devil Made me put this main secret in the packet I sent the king ? Is there no way to cure this ? No new device to beat this from his brains ? I know 'twill stir him strongly yet I know A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune Will bring me off again.@-@What's this ? ' To the Pope ?' The letter, as I live, with all the business I writ to his holiness !@-@Nay then, farewell ! I have touched the highest point of all my greatness, And, from that full meridian of my glory, I haste now to my setting. I shall fall, Like a bright exhalation in the evening, And no man see me more. . . . Farewell, a long farewell, to all my greatness ! This is the state of man to-day he puts for
 walk, still verdant, under oaks and elms, Whose outspread branches over-arch the glade. The roof, though movable through all its length As the wind sways it, has yet well sufficed, And intercepting in their silent fall The frequent flakes, has kept a path for me. No noise is here, or none that hinders thought. The redbreast warbles still, but is content With slender notes, and more than half suppressed Pleased with his solitude, and flitting light From spray to spray, where'er he rests he shakes From many a twig the pendent drops of ice That tinkle in the withered leaves below. Stillness, accompanied with sounds so soft, Charms more than silence. Meditation here May think down hours to moments. Here the heart May give a useful lesson to the head, And Learning wiser grow without his books. Knowledge and Wisdom, far from being one, Have oft-times no connection. Knowledge dwells In heads replete with thoughts of other men, Wisdom in minds attentive to their own. Knowledge, a rude unprofitable mass, The mere materials with which Wisdom builds, Till smoothed, and squared, and fitted to its place, Does but encumber whom it seems to enrich. Knowledge is proud that he has learned so much Wisdom is humble that he knows no more. Books are not seldom talismans and spells, By which the magic art of shrewder wits Holds an unthinking multitude enthralled. With lines 29 to 41 compare the extract from Comus, lines 40 to 56 and Quarles' Wisdom and Knowledge. See also Wisdom and Knowledge contrasted in Tennyson's In Memoriam, cxi
 approbation gave the lingering bays, For those who durst not censure, scarce could praise. A mortal born, he met the general doom, But left, like Egypt's kings, a lasting tomb. The wits of Charles found easier ways to fame, Nor wished for Jonson's art, or Shakespere's flame Themselves they studied, as they felt they writ, Intrigue was plot, obscenity was wit. Vice always found a sympathetic friend They pleased their age, and did not aim to mend. Yet bards like these aspired to lasting praise, And proudly hoped to pimp in future days Their cause was general, their supports were strong, Their slaves were willing, and their reign was long Till Shame regained the post that Sense betrayed, And Virtue called Oblivion to her aid. Then crushed by rules, and weakened as refined, For years the power of Tragedy declined From bard to bard the frigid caution crept, Till Declamation roared, whilst Passion slept Yet still did Virtue deign the stage to tread Philosophy remained, though Nature fled But forced at length her ancient reign to quit, She saw great Faustus lay the ghost of Wit Exulting Folly hailed the joyful day, And pantomime and song confirmed her sway. But who the coming changes can presage, And mark the future periods of the Stage ? Perhaps, if skill could distant times explore, New Behns, new Durfeys, yet remain in store Perhaps, where Lear has raved, and Hamlet died, On flying cars new sorcerers may ride Perhaps@-@for who can guess the effects of chance ?-Here Hunt may box, or Mahomet may danc
 eager feeding food doth choke the feeder Light vanity, insatiate cormorant, Consuming means, soon preys upon itself. This royal throne of kings, this sceptred isle, This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars, This other Eden, demi-paradise, This fortress, built by Nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war, This happy breed of men, this little world, This precious stone set in the silver sea, Which serves it in the office of a wall, Or as a moat defensive to a house, Against the envy of less happier lands, This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England, This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings, Feared by their breed, and famous by their birth, Renownèd for their deeds as far from home, For Christian service, and true chivalry As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry Of the world's ransom, blessèd Mary's son This land of such dear souls, this dear, dear land, Dear for her reputation through the world, Is now leased out I die pronouncing it , Like to a tenement, or pelting farm England, bound in with the triumphant sea, Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame, With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds That England, that was wont to conquer others, Hath made a shameful conquest of itself Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life, How happy then were my ensuing death ! 1594. -@Richard II., ii.
 a month, a week, a natural day, That Faustus may repent and save his soul ! O lente, lente currite, tioctis equi! The stars move still, time runs, the clock will strike, The devil will come, and Faustus must be damned. O, I'll leap to heaven who pulls me down ? See where Christ's blood streams in the firmament@! One drop of blood will save me. O my Christ@! Rend not my heart for naming of my Christ. Yet will I call on him. O spare me, Lucifer. Where is it now ? 'tis gone And, see, a threatening arm, an angry brow. Mountains and hills, come, come, and fall on me, And hide me from the heavy wrath of heaven ! No! Then will I headlong run into the earth Gape, earth. O no, it will not harbour me. You stars that reigned at my nativity, Whose influence hath allotted death and hell. Now draw up Faustus like a foggy mist Into the entrails of yon labouring cloud That, when you vomit forth into the air, My limbs may issue from your smoky mouths But let my soul mount and ascend to heaven ! The clock strikes the half-hour. O half the hour is past ! 'twill all be past anon. O if my soul must suffer for my sin Impose some end to my incessant pain. Let Faustus live in hell a thousand years, A hundred thousand, and at last be saved ! No end is limited to damnèd souls. Why wert thou not a creature wanting soul ?, Or why is this immortal that thou hast ? O Pythagoras' metempsychosis ! were that tru
 furrowed land, And the milkmaid singeth blithe, And the mower whets his scythe, And every shepherd tells his tale Under the hawthorn in the dale. Straight mine eye hath caught new pleasures, Whilst the landscape round it measures Russet lawns and fallows gray, Where the nibbling flocks do stray Mountains on whose barren breast The labouring clouds do often rest Meadows trim with daisies pied Shallow brooks, and rivers wide Towers and battlements it sees Bosomed high in tufted trees, Where perhaps some beauty lies, The cynosure of neighbouring eyes. Hard-by, a cottage chimney smokes From betwixt two aged oaks, Where Corydon and Thyrsis met Are at their savoury dinner set Of herbs and other country messes, Which the neat-handed Phillis dresses And then in haste her bower she leaves, With Thestylis to bind the sheaves Or, if the earlier season lead, To the tanned haycock in the mead. Sometimes, with secure delight, The upland hamlets will invite, When the merry bells ring round, And the jocund rebecks sound To many a youth, and many a maid, Dancing in the chequered shade And young and old come forth to pl
 brotherhood is broken time has been When, every day, the touch of human hand Dislodged the natural sleep that binds them up In mortal stillness and they ministered To human comfort. As I stooped to drink, Upon the slimy foot-stone I espied The useless fragment of a wooden bowl, Green with the moss of years, a pensive sight That moved my heart, recalling former days When I could never pass that road but she, Who lived within these walls, at my approach, A daughter's welcome gave me, and I loved her As my own child. Oh, Sir ! the good die first, And they whose hearts are dry as summer dust Burn to the socket.' -@Wordsworth's Excursion, bk. i. CCCXXIV. SUNSET. ERE long the sun declining shot A slant and mellow radiance, which began To fall upon us, while, beneath the trees, We sat on that low bench and now we felt, Admonished thus, the sweet hour coming on. A linnet warbled from those lofty elms, A thrush sang loud, and other melodies, At distance heard, peopled the milder air. The old man rose, and, with a sprightly mien Of hopeful preparation, grasped his staff Together casting then a farewell look Upon those silent walls, we left the shade And, ere the stars were visible, had reached A village-inn,@-@our evening resting-place. -Ib. 
 of a course of study. While, however, I had the student mainly in view, no section of the book is narrowed down to his needs only, and the whole will, I trust, be found worthy of a wider welcome. For the absence of one great name I may be allowed to quote from Palgrave's Children's Treasury his ' re-gretting the refusal by which the present publisher of Mr. Alfred Tennyson's poems has deprived this book of a few brilliant pages, and its readers of an introduction to the writings of our greatest living poet,'@-@seeing that Messrs. Macmillan Co., the then publishers of the Treasury, have now, as publishers of Lord Tennyson's works, accorded to me a similar refusal. J. B. Madras, 22nd March, 1885. PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. THE chief change in this edition is that each poem or extract is placed in its exact chronological position, or as nearly so as possible. Lovers of our Poetical Literature will, I think, appreciate the arrangement by which they will be able to see what poems appeared in a certain decade or period, and also the year in which some favourite piece was written or first published. This has been no easy task for not only has no previous collector attempted any classification as to time, except by centuries, but even in the works of some of the poets the date of the publication of each is not given. The less known poets and the authors of ' fugitive@@' verse are in a state of still greater obscurity for example
 the chyrche dore and a lyghte done from his horse, deuoutely sayinge his prayers to God in this wyse. O Lord Jhesu I moost synfull wretche and vessell of all stynkynge synnes. I praye the that thou wylte haue mercy on me and preserue and kepe me from all daun-gers and peryll. And then he wente and spoke to the abbotte and monkes so swetely and so peteously and amyably that they began to go towarde hym, to whom Roberte sayd peteously, wepynge knelynge on his knees. My lorde I knowledge myself that I haue greuously offended you, and haue grete harme and injurye unto your abbay. Wherfore I requyre and praye you in all the honoure of Crystes passyon of forgyuenesse. And than he spake to the Abbote in thys wyse, My Lorde abbott I praye you hertely haue me recomaunded to my lorde my fader the duke of Normandye, and delyuer hym this keye of the chefe hous where I haue dwelled with my companye, the whiche I haue all slane to thentent that they sholde do no more harme, and in the hous lyeth all the goodes and tresoure that I haue stolen from you and other men, wherfore I am ryght sory, and I beseeche you of forgyuenesse, and I pray you that this good may be rendred agene unto such people as they haue belongynge to before. Robert abode that nyght in the abbay, but in the mornynge erly he wente thens and left behinde hym his horse and his swerde where withall he had doone grete myschefe. And so he went alone towards Rome. And on the same daye rode the Abbote to the Duke of Normandye, a
 hath woone 40 pounds of me, and Gray hath gotten well the best is qd. Hodgekins, they will pay for our supper then let vs haue good store of Sacke, qd. Sutton. Content said Cole, for I promise you, I striue not to grow rich by Dice-playing, therefore call for what you will, I will pay for all. Yea said Simon ! Chamberlaine, I pray thee bring a whole bottle of pottage for me. Now Tom Doue had all the fidlers at a becke of his finger, which follow him vp and down the City, as diligent as little chickens after a hen, and made a vow, that there should want no Musicke. And at that time there liued in London a Musician of great reputa-tion, named Reior, who kept his seruants in such costly garments, that they might seeme to come before any Prince. Their coates were all of one colour and it is said, that afterward the Nobility of this Land, noting it for a seemely sight, vsed in like manner to keepe their men all in one liuery. This Reior w@as the most skil-fullest Musician that liued at that time, whose wealth was very great, so that all the Instruments whereon his ser-uants plaid, were richly garnished with studdes of siluer, and some gold the bowes belonging to their Violines were all likewise of pure siluer. Hee was also for his wisedome called to great Office in the City, who also builded at his owne cost the Priory and Hospital of S. Bartholomew in Smithfield. His seruants being the best consorts in the City, were by Tom Doue appointed to play before the young Princes. Then supper being brought to the boord, they all sat down, and by and 
 standing exposed to the weather forward of the deck-house, looked pinched and utterly woe-begone, clinging desperately as if frozen fast to the spokes of the wheel which, in its oscillations, seemed to move, not to be moved or controlled by, him. On deck a few pas-sengers stuck it out obstinately, cowering in the lee of the smoke-stack. Two able-bodied sea travellers, the Doctor and the companion of his travels, tramped valiantly up and down, taking exercise for to-morrow and trying their sea-legs. As the steamer passed through the Narrows, Staten Island and the Bay Ridge shore showed chill and desolate, all the trees gaunt and leafless, the meadows sere and frost-bound moreover, there was a broad fringe of ice all round the sea-wall of Fort Lafayette. On Coney Island and all along the New Jersey strand great waves flung themselves high up on the beach, and long before the Barracouta passed the Hook great billows charged in from the warring sea to meet her. Out on the open it was dreary and bitterly cold. I thought of the store of summer clothing in my trunks below, and shivered miserably, although crowded close to the warm side of the smoke-stack. Three days later the mere mention or remembrance of winter wraps brought the perspiration to my brow as I sat in the shade of the deck-awning. Night came on, and a dirty night it proved to be, but the ship struggled bravely summerward, leaving winter, knot by knot, astern. Far away beneath the Southern Cross lay our desired haven, beyond the blue waters where it is always spring or summer, where there is no ice nor snow, chill winds nor frosty weather. Shortly before dark we heard a great alarum high overhead, the honking of a flock of wild geese winging their way to the ice-bound North from which we were hastening. The apparition of the steamer with its long plume of inky smoke startled them for a few moments the long line of their flight was broken-@their rank, falling into con-fusion, swerved from its direct course like a file of soldiers thrown out of step. Then the swiftest and, presumably, the wisest, members of the company went quickly to the front, with loud trumpeting, 
 ploughman homeward plods his weary way, And leaves the world to darkness and to me. Now fades the glimmering landscape on the sight, And all the air a solemn stillness holds, Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight, And drowsy tinklings lull the distant folds@@ Save that from yonder ivy-mantled tower The moping owl does to the moon complain Of such as, wand'ring near her secret bower, Molest her ancient solitary reign. Beneath those rugged elms, that yew-tree's shade, Where heaves the turf in many a mould'ring heap, Each in his narrow cell for ever laid, The rude Forefathers of the hamlet sleep. The breezy call of incense-breathing morn, The swallow twitt'ring from the straw-built shed, The cock's shrill clarion, or the echoing horn, No more shall rouse them from their lowly bed. For them no more the blazing hearth shall burn, Or busy housewife ply her evening care No children run to lisp their sire's return, Or climb his knees the envied kiss to share. Oft did the harvest to their sickle yield, Their furrow oft the stubborn glebe has broke How jocund did they drive their team afield ! How bowed the woods beneath their sturdy stroke ! Let not Ambition mock their useful toil, Their homely joys, and destiny obscure, Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile The short and simple annals of the poo
 king, queene, and all the company laughed to see with what shame this gentleman indured the sight of his greasie sweetheart but the gentleman went away discontented. This done Fryer Bacon tooke his leave of the King and Queene, and received from them divers gifts as well as thankes for his art he shewed them. How Fryer Bacon deceived his Man, that would fast for his conscience sake. FRYER BACON had one onely man to attend on him and he too was none of the wisest, for he kept him in charity, more then for any service he had of him. This man of his named Miles never could indure to fast as other religious persons did, for alwayes hee had in one corner, or another, flesh which hee would eate when his maister eat bread only, or else did fast and abstain@e from all things. Fryer Bacon seeing this, thought at one time or other to be even with him, which he did one Fryday in this manner, Miles on the Thursday night had provi-ded a great blacke-pudding for his Frydayes fast this pudding put he in his pocket thinking belike to heate it so, for his maister had no fire on those dayes on the next day, who was so demure as Miles, hee looked as though hee would not have eat any thing when his maister offerd him some bread, hee refused it, saying his sinnes deserved a greater penance then one dayes fast in a whole weeke his maister commended him for it, and bid him take heed that he did not dissemble for if he did, it would at last be knowne then were I wor
 of yours, said she, beseeching you good Maidens, you will doe me the fauour, to tell me what seruice were best for me for the more too blame my parents, they would neuer put me forth to know any thing. Why what can you doe quoth the Maidens ? can you brew and bake, make butter and cheese, and reape corne well No verily, said Margaret, but I would be right glad to learne to doe any thing whatsoeuer it be. If you could spin or card, said another, you might do ex-cellent well with a Clother, for they are the best seruices that I know, there you shall be sure to fare well, and so liue merrily. Then Margaret wept, saying, alas, what shall I doe ? I was neuer brought vp to these things. What, can you doe nothing, quoth they ? No truly quoth she that is good for any thing, but I can read and write, and sowe, some skill I have in my needle, and a little on my Lute but this, I see will profit me nothing. Good Lord, quoth they, are you bookish ? wee did neuer heare of a Maide before that could reade and write. And although you can doe no other thing, yet possible you may get a seruice, if you can behaue your selfe manerly. I pray you qd. another, seeing you are bookish, will you doe so much as to reade a loue-letter that is sent me ? for I was at a friends of mine with it, and he was not at home, and so I know not what is in it. I pray you let me see it, quoth Margaret, and I will shew you. Whereupon she readeth as followet
 shepherds on the lawn, Or ere the point of dawn, Sat simply chatting in a rustic row Full little thought they then, That the mighty Pan Was kindly come to live with them below Perhaps their loves, or else their sheep, Was all that did their silly thoughts so busy keep. When such music sweet Their hearts and ears did greet, As never was by mortal finger strook Divinely-warbled voice Answering the stringèd noise, As all their souls in blissful rapture took The air, such pleasure loth to lose, With thousand echoes still prolongs each heavenly close. Nature, that heard such sound, Beneath the hollow round Of Cynthia's seat, the airy region thrilling, Now was almost won To think her part was done, And that her reign had here its last fulfilling She knew such harmony alone Could hold all Heaven and Earth in happier union. At last surrounds their sight A globe of circular light, That with long beams the shame-faced Night arrayed The helmèd Cherubim, And sworded Seraphim, Are seen in glittering ranks with wings displaye
 clay creator the vain title take Of lord of thee, and arbiter of war These are thy toys, and, as the snowy flake, They melt into thy yeast of waves, which mar Alike the Armada's pride, or spoils of Trafalgar. Thy shores are empires, changed in all save thee@-Assyria, Greece, Rome, Carthage, what are they ? Thy waters washed them power while they were free, And many a tyrant since their shores obey The stranger, slave, or savage their decay Has dried up realms to deserts -@not so thou, Unchangeable, save to thy wild waves play,@-Time writes no wrinkle on thine azure brow,@-Such as creation's dawn beheld, thou rollest now. Thou@ glorious mirror, where the Almighty's form Glasses itself in tempests in all time, Calm or convulsed@-@in breeze, or gale, or storm, Icing the pole, or in the torrid clime, Dark-heaving -@boundless, endless and sublime@-The image of Eternity@-@the throne Of the Invisible even from out thy slime The monsters of the deep are made each zone Obeys thee thou goest forth, dread, fathomless, alone. And I have loved thee, Ocean ! and my joy Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be Borne, like thy bubbles, onward from a boy I wantoned with thy breakers@-@they to me Were a delight and if the freshening sea Made them a terror@-'twas a pleasing fear, For I was as it were a child of thee, And trusted to thy billows, far and near, And laid my hand upon thy mane, as I do here. 1818. -@Byro
 THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE CRICKET. GREEN little vaulter in the sunny grass, Catching your heart up at the feel of June, Sole voice that's heard amidst the lazy noon, When ev'n the bees lag at the summoning brass And you, warm little housekeeper, who class With those who think the candles come too soon, Loving the fire, and with your tricksome tune Nick the glad silent moments as they pass O sweet and tiny cousins, that belong, One to the fields, the other to the hearth, strong Both have your sunshine both, though small, are At your clear hearts, and both seem given to earth To sing in thoughtful ears this natural song,@-In doors and out, summer and winter,@-@mirth. 1816@ -@Leigh Hunt. CCCXXXII. THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE CRICKET. THE poetry of earth is never dead When all the birds are faint with the hot sun, And hide in cooling trees, a voice will run From hedge to hedge about the new-mown mead That is the grasshopper's@-@he takes the lead In summer luxury,@-@he has never done With his delights for when tired out with fun, He rests at ease beneath some pleasant weed. The poetry of the earth is ceasing never On a lone winter evening, when the frost Cowden Clarke tells us, in his Recollections, that when he was on a visit to Leigh Hunt in Dec., 1816, Hunt challenged Keats to write a sonnet on the grasshopper and the cricket. Keats finished his firs
 all His Angels, who with true applause Recount his praises. Thus He did to Job, When, to extend His fame through Heaven and earth, As thou to thy reproach may'st well remember, He asked thee, ' Hast thou seen my servant Job ? ' Famous he was in Heaven on earth less known, Where glory is false glory, attributed To things not glorious, men not worthy of fame. They err who count it glorious to subdue By conquest far and wide, to over-run Large countries, and in field great battles win, Great cities by assault. What do these worthies But rob and spoil, burn, slaughter, and enslave Peaceable nations, neighbouring or remote, Made captive, yet deserving freedom more Than those their conquerors, who leave behind Nothing but ruin wheresoe'er they rove, And all the flourishing works of peace destroy Then swell with pride, and must be titled Gods, Great Benefactors of mankind, Deliverers, Worshipped with temple, priest, and sacrifice ? -@Paradise Regained, iii. 44-83. CLXXXII. ATHENS. LOOK once more, ere we leave this specular mount, Westward, much nearer by south-west behold Where on the AEgean shore a city stands, Built nobly, pure the air and light the soil, Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts And eloquence, native to famous wits Or hospitable, in her sweet recess, City or suburban, studious walks and shades. See there the olive grove of Academ
 long and with that fetching a sigh, shee swouned and gaue a great groane. The man seeing her in this case, w@as woundrous woe but so soone as they had re-couered her, he said, O my deare wife, if any bad conceit hath ingendered this sicknesse, let me know it or if thou knowst any thing that may procure thy health, let me vnderstand thereof, and I protest thou shalt haue it, if it cost me all that euer I haue. O husband, quoth she, how may I credit your words, when for a paltry sute of apparell you denyed me ? Well, wife, quoth he, thou shalt haue apparell or any thing else thou wilt request, if God send thee once health. O husband, if I may find you so kind, I shall thinke my selfe the happiest woman in the world, thy words haue greatly comforted my heart, mee thinketh if I had it, I could drinke a good draught of Renish wine. Well, wine was sent for O Lord, said she, that I had a piece of chicken, I feele my stomache desirous of some meate Glad am I of that, said her husband, and so the woman within a few dayes after was very well. But you shall vnderstand, that her husband was faine to dresse her London-like, ere he could get her quiet, neither would it please her except the stuffe was bought in Cheapside for out of Cheapside nothing would con-tent her, were it neuer so good insomuch, that if she thought a Taylor of Cheapside made not her gowne, she would sweare it were quite spoiled. And hauing thus wonne her husband to her wil
 such abundance of corrupt blood in his whole body, as lay in his mis-shapen nose, and therewithall he began to touch and handle his nose, saying, that he felt it mightily asswaged. Immediately a glasse was brought wherein he might behold himselfe. Yea mary, qd. he now I praise God, I see my nose is come into some reasonable proportion, and I feele my selfe very well eased of the burthen thereof but if it continue thus, thats all. I will warrant your worship, said the Physi-cian, for euer being troubled with the like againe. Whereupon the Knight receiued great ioy, and the Doctor a high reward. How Thomas of Reading was murdered at his Oasts house of Colebrooke, who also had murdred many before him, and how their wickednesse was at length reuealed. Chap. 11. THOMAS of Reading hauing many occasions to come to London, as well about his own affaires, as also the Kings businesse, being in a great office vnder his Ma-iestie, it chanced on a time, that his Oast and Oastesse of Colebrooke, who through couetousnesse had mur-dered many of the guests, and hauing every time he came thither great store of his money to lay vp, ap-pointed him to be the next fat pig that should be killed For it is to be vnderstood, that when they plotted the murder of any man, this was alwaies their terme, the man to his wife, and the woman to her hu
 soul should fly from me, and I be changed Into some brutish beast. All beasts are happy, For, when they die, Their souls are soon dissolved in elements But mine must live still to be plagued in hell. Curst be the parents that engendered me ! No, Faustus, curse thyself, curse Lucifer, That hath deprived thee of the joys of heaven. The clock strikes twelve. It strikes, it strikes@! Now, body, turn to air, Or Lucifer will bear thee quick to hell@! O soul, be changed into small water-drops, And fall into the ocean ne'er be found! Thunder. Enter devils. O mercy, Heaven ! look not so fierce on me. Adders and serpents, let me breathe awhile Ugly hell, gape not come not Lucifer ! I'll burn my books ! O Mephostophilis ! Enter scholars. First Sch. Come, gentlemen, let us go visit Faustus, For such a dreadful night was never seen Since first the world's creation did begin Such fearful shrieks and cries were never heard. Pray heaven the Doctor have escaped the danger ! Sec. Sell. O help us, Heaven ! see here are Faustus' limbs All torn asunder by the hand of death ! Third Sch. The devils whom Faustus served have torn him thus For 'twixt the hours of twelve and one, methought, I heard him shriek and call aloud for help At which self time the house seemed all on fire With dreadful horror of these damnèd fiends. Sec. Sch. Well, gentlemen, though Faustus' end be such As every Christian heart laments to think o
 of durance let it be, For all weathers that for me, For the land or for the sea, Lasting evermore. Winter's cold or summer's heat, Autumn's tempests on it beat, It can never know defeat, Never can rebel. Such the love that I would gain, Such the love, I tell thee plain, Thou must give, or woo in vain So to thee farewell. -@Anonymous. CXVIII. ON HIS BEING ARRIVED AT THE AGE OF TWENTY-THREE. HOW soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth, Stolen on his wing my three-and-twentieth year ! My hasting days fly on with full career, But my late spring no bud or blossom sheweth. Perhaps my semblance might deceive the truth That I to manhood am arrived so near And inward ripeness doth much less appear, That some more timely-happy spirits endueth. Yet, be it less or more, or soon or slow, It shall be still in strictest measure even To that same lot, however mean or high, Toward which Time leads me, and the will of Heaven All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great Task-Master's eye. 163@1. -Milton, Sonnet 2. In 1628, Cowley, when ten years of age, had written Pyramus and Thisbe, an ethical romanc
 joyd weake wemen's hearts to tempt, and prove If from their Ioyall loves he might them move Which lewdnes filld him with reprochfull pain Of that foule evill, which all men reprove, That rots the marrow, and consumes the braine. Such one was Lechery, the third of all this traine. And greedy AVARICE by him did ride, Upon a camell loaden all with gold Two iron coffers hong on either side, With precious metall full as they might hold And in his lap an heap of coine he told For of his wicked pelfe his God he made, And unto hell himselfe for money sold Accursed usury was all his trade, And right and wrong ylike in equall ballaunce waide. His life was nigh unto death's dore yplaste And thred-bare cote, and cobled shoes, hee ware Ne scarse good morsell all his life did taste, But both from backe and belly still did spare, To fill his bags, and richesse to compare Yet childe ne kinsman living had he none To leave them to but thorough daily care To get, and nightly feare to lose his owne, He led a wretched life, unto himselfe unknowne. Most wretched wight, whom nothing might suffise Whose greedy lust did lacke in greatest store Whose need had end, but no end covetise Whose welth was want, whose plenty made him pore Who had enough, yet wished ever more A vile disease and eke in foote and hand A grievous gout tormented him full sore, That well he could not touch, nor goe, nor stand. Such one was Avarice, the fourth of this faire ban
BK. II. 190 AN ENGLISH ANTHOLOGY.  where to sound His name. O let our voice His praise exalt Till it arrive at heaven's vault, Which then perhaps rebounding may Echo beyond the Me@xique bay !@' -@Thus sang they in the English boat A holy and a cheerful note And all the way, to guide their chime, With falling oars they kept the time. -@Marvel. CLXI. ODE TO IMAGINATION. WHERE never foot of man, or hoof of beast The passage pressed Where never fish did fly, And with short silver wings cut the low liquid sky Where bird with painted oars did ne'er Row through the trackless ocean of the air Where never yet did pry The busy morning's curious eye The wheels of thy bold coach pass quick and free, And all's an open road to thee. Whatever God did say, Is all thy plain and smooth uninterrupted way Nay, even beyond His works thy voyages are known.@† Thou hast a thousand worlds too of thine own. Thou speak'st, great queen ! in the same style as He And a new world leaps forth, when thou sayest ' Let it be '. These are stanzas ii. and iii. of the Pindaric ode, The Muse. † In allusion to the creations of poetry,@-@centaurs, fairies, etc., and in fables and romances the making animals and trees, etc., act like me
COUNTRY HIRINGS. Come all you blooming country lads and listen unto me. And if I do but tell the truth I know you will agree, It is of the jolly farmers who servants want to have, For to maintain them in their pride and be to them a slave. Servant men stand up for wages, When to the hirings you do go For you must work all sorts of weather, Both in cold, in wet, and snow. The farmer and his wife in bed so snug and. warm can lie,@@@@ While you must face the weather, both cold, wet, and dry For the rates they are heavy, and the taxes they are high,@@@@@ And we must pull the wages down, the farmers they d cry. The farmers twenty years ago could their rents and taxes pay,@@@@ But now they are so full of pride and increases ever day Which makes the landlords raise the rent, and the far mers for to scold, On the poor young servant lad, and rob him of his gol@d The farmer and the servants together used to dine, But now they're in the parlour with their pudding, beer and  master and the mistress, their sons and  they will eat the meat, and you may pick the bones The farmers' daughters they used to dress so neatand clean and brown, And now with bustles, frills and furbelows, and floun-ces to their gowns, They go dress'd like dandy Bess, more fitter for the @@@@@Which cause the farmers rents to rise and puts them in a rage. The description of your living I am sure it is the worst F@or the pottage it is thin and the bread is very coarse While the masters they do live, as you shall understand On butter and good cheese and the fat from the land A roasted goose for dinner, likewise a leg of lamb, With soups and potatoes and everything that's grand, While the servants in the kitchen they do both sport and play, Speaking about the fun they'll get upon the hiring day I could tell you of a better plan,without fear or doubt, If you'd but kiss the mistres when the master he is out You may kiss her, you may squeeze her, you may roll heru ro@nd about, And she will find you better food without fear or doubt. THE  lads and lasses in the fair come listen to my song, I'll sing to you a verse or two that wont detain you long, You pretty girls with flowi@ng curls, come stay a little while, I'll sing a song about the fair, I'm sure 'twill make you smile. CHORUS. Then haste away, blithe and gay, Be happy while you may, For in the fair I do declare, They'll kiss the girls to-day. Ton ploughboys and you dairy-maids, None with you can  prettiest girls in all the worldworld You'll see at-fair. You see that farmer's daughter walking on high toes, Perhaps when doing the Grecian bend, she'll fall and break her nose. Another with her nose cocked up, is trying to hobble along, Underneath her apron she has got a big chignon. Fhere's a stylish counter-jumper, he's just fell in the dirt, Another with a paper front and devil a bit of shirt Old farmer G ray is in a way, his troubles you can mend, A ploughboy to@ok his wife away to learn the Grecian bend. There's Tom and Bill, with Fanny Hill theymeann to have some fun, They're sure to tear their muslin before the night is done, When nine months is gone and past, theyll find it out we fear, For since the laws have been altered,@@itt lle babies are so dear. There's a poor young married woman, girls now think of that, She has got the babby's napkins in her dolly varden hat She's trying to find her husband, but the truth to you I'll tell, He's just gone round the corner with a very goodna-tured girl. You'll see old Bob the lushy snob, who thinks it is no sin, To pawn his wife's thingamybob to ge a drop o f gin Go here and there, and everywhere, you 're happy I declare, Hurrah, my boys ! this is the day to come to -@-fai
FRYER BACON. WHEN we observe the tendency which has been shown by the generality of mankind in all ages and countries, to estimate the capabilities of the human mind by the limited powers which have been allotted to themselves, we cannot be surprized that they should endeavour to reduce the master-spirits of Genius and Philosophy to their own level, by attri-buting the superior acquirements of such master-spirits to the influence of demoniacal agency. Such has ever been the solution which the vulgar have given to the apparently mysterious power which superior intellect possessed over them, while the few whose better knowledge should have led them to check so delusive and dangerous an opinion were too often induced by feelings of envy, if not openly to encourage, at least tacitly to sanction it. Among the many who have been thus treated, none have been so more un-justly than Roger Bacon, who in the three first chapters of his Epistle on the Power of Art and Nature, expressly declares against magic, unlawf
 FAUSTUS TO THE APPARITION OF HELEN. WAS this the face that launched a thousand ships, And burnt the topless towers of Ilium ? Sweet Helen, make me immortal with a kiss. Her lips suck forth my soul@! See where it flies. Come, Helen, come, give me my soul again. Here will I dwell, for Heaven be in these lips, And all is dross that is not Helena. I will be Paris, and, for love of thee, Instead of Troy shall Wertenberg be sacked And I will combat with weak Menelaus, And wear thy colours on my plumèd crest Yea, I will wound Achilles in the heel, And then return to Helen for a kiss. Oh ! thou art fairer than the evening air, Clad in the beauty of a thousand stars Brighter art thou than flaming Jupiter, When he appeared to hapless Semele More lovely than the monarch of the sky In wanton Arethusa's azured arms And none but thou shalt be my paramour. -@Marlowe's Faustus. XXIII. THE DEATH OF FAUSTUS. Faustus alone. The clock strikes eleven. Faustus. O Faustus, Now hast thou but one bare hour to live, And then thou must be damned perpetually. Stand still, you ever-moving spheres of heaven, That time may cease and midnight never come. Fair Nature's eye, rise, rise again, and make Perpetual day or let this hour be  the quarto of 1616. The Tragical History of Dr. Faustus was first produced on the stage about 1587-8
 APOSTROPHE TO LIBERTY. O LIBERTY, thou goddess heavenly bright, Profuse of bliss, and pregnant with delight@! Eternal pleasures in thy presence reign, And smiling Plenty leads thy wanton train Eased of her load, Subjection grows more light, And Poverty looks cheerful in thy sight Thou mak'st the gloomy face of Nature gay, Giv'st beauty to the sun and pleasure to the day. Thee, goddess, thee Britannia's isle adores How has she oft exhausted all her stores, How oft in fields of death thy presence sought, Nor thinks the mighty prize too dearly bought@! On foreign mountains may the sun refine The grape's soft juice and mellow it to wine With citron groves adorn a distant soil, And the fat olive swell with floods of oil We envy not the warmer clime that lies In ten degrees of more indulgent skies Nor at the coarseness of our heaven repine, Though o'er our heads the frozen Pleiads shine 'Tis Liberty that crowns Britannia's isle, And makes her barren rocks and her bleak moun@tains smile. Others with towering piles may please the sight, And in their proud aspiring domes delight And nicer touch to the stretched canvas give, Or teach their animated rocks to live 'Tis Britain's care to watch o'er Europe's fate And hold in balance each contending state, To threaten bold presumptuous kings with wa
 Cole ? The common report, quoth Gray, is this, that the couetous Earle, who through a greedy desire, neuer left begging of the King for one thing or other, and his request being now denied him, of meere obsti-ny and wilfull frowardnesse, hath banished himselfe out of the Land, and quite forsaken the Country of Cornwall, hauing made a vow neuer to set foote within England againe, and as report goeth, he with the late banisht Earl of Shrewsbury, haue ioyned themselues with Robert Duke of Normandy, against the King, the which actions of theirs hath inflamed the Kings wrath, that their Ladies with their children are quite turned out of doores succourlesse and friendlesse, so that it is told me, they wander vp and downe the Country like forlorne people, and although many doe pitie them, yet few doe releeue them. A lamentable hearing, qd. William of Worcester, and with that casting their eyes aside, they espyed Tom Doue with the rest of his companions come riding to meete them, who as soone as they were come thither, fell into such pleasant discourses, as did shorten the long way they had to Colebroke, where alwayes at their comming towards London they dined and being once entred into their Inne, according to olde custome, good cheere was prouided for them for these Clothiers were the chiefest guests that trauailed along the way and this was as sure as an act of Parliament, that Tom Doue could not digesthismeatwithoutmusicke, nor drinke wine without women, so that his hostesse being a merry wench, wou
JACK OF AMBROSE MILL@@@@@@ I AM poor Joe the collier's son, @@From Holberry town I came, I courted lasses many a one, And loved them all the same I courted Nancy and young Kate, And buxom Nelly too, But Rachael's the girl that I do admire, And that you soon shall know. Come all you colliers in this row, That delight in a bonny lass, That delights to drink good ale so brown That will sparkle in your glass My parents they do on me frown, And say I am to blame, In keeping young Rachael's company, And she lives in March  one summer's  the dawning of the day, I longed to hear the small birds sing, And the lambs see skip and play I took my walk to Holberry town, And round by Bilston mills, Who should I spy but my own true love, With Jack of Ambrose mill. I hid myself all in a grove, A distance from where they were, He gave her kisses, one, two, three, Not knowing I was there I boldly stepped up to him, Thou rogue what hast thou done, I am jolly Joe the collier's son, You must either fight or run. My fingers they began to itch, I scarce could hold them still, And presently began to thump Poor Jack of Ambrose Mill. Hold your hand, dear Jack, she says, No more of this let's have, I'll be your servant, slave, or wife, Till we both go to our grave. Then to the church poor Rachael went, Right sure against her will, You maidens all pity my downfall With Jack of Ambrose Mill. THE PRICE OF MY PIG London -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and Publisher, 177, Union Street, Boro'. O CTOBER the first, a day sure the worst, I straight took my way to the sweet fair of Trim There to sell a swine, it was my design, She was fat, fair, and complete in each limb My swine was as mild as a lamb or a child, You might drive her all over the world with a sprig, The truth for to tell, I sold her right well, Three pound ten was the price I received for my pig. With the cash on my thigh, and the glass in my eye, To the town I did fly like a sporting young buck, I met a smart dame, she belonged to the game, She up to me came to be sure for good luck@@ She tipt me the wink, we went for to drink, The jade bewitched me to dance Venus's jig, And in the wheel round she slipt her hand down, And stript me quite bare of the price of my pig. When I missed my share like a man in despair, I ran tearing my hair searching her up and down, Eeah corner and lane I searched all in vain, Not a sight of this damnable jade could be found. Meet her where I will I sure will her kill, I swear by the hair of Lord Norbury's wig, Till the day@ that I die, for vengeance I'll cry, On the jade that robbed me of the price of my pig. To Navan next day I straight took my way, As I heard of a fair being held in Slane, When I capered there I was loaded with care, To think that my walk it was labour in vain. To the house of John Flinn I next stepp'd in, Where I danced three reels and one double jig, In hopes by and by I might cast my eye, On the jade that robbed me of the price of my pig. By the Buck, by the Doe, by the Lord of Mayo, By the great bog of Allen the big hill of Howth, By the church, by the bell, and by Paddy Mc. Kell, And for to swear more you know I am loth Meet her where I will, I sure will her kill, I will not spare her for tory or whig, And for this base action I'll have satisfaction, Upon the jade's bones for the price of my pig. Now since it is so, straight home I will go, My shuttle to throw, and from drinking refrain, I will stick to my loom while my youth is in bloom, I will never be caught by a strumpet again. If the Lord Mayor knew the cause of my woe, He would surely come here in a chaise or a gig, He would search Ireland round, where the jade could be found, He'd put her in pound for the price of my pi
 kitchin, by the which they presently mounted into the said chamber, and there closely take away the mans apparell, as also his money, in his male or cap-case and then lifting vp the said falling floore which hung by hinges, they made it fast as before. The dead body would they take presently out of the caldron and throw it downe the riuer, which ran neere vnto their house, whereby they escaped all danger. Now if in the morning any of the rest of the guests that had talkt with the murdered man ore eue, chanst to aske for him, as hauing occasion to ride the same way that he should haue done, the good-man would answere, that he tooke horse a good while before day, and that he himselfe did set him forward the horse the good-man would also take out of the stable, and conuay him by a hay-barne of his, that stood from his house a mile or two, whereof himselfe did alwaies keepe the keies full charily, and when any hay was to be brought from thence, with his owne hands he would deliuer it then before the horse should goe from thence, he would dismarke him as if he ware a long taile, he would make him curtall or else crop his eares, or cut his mane, or put out one of his eies and by this meanes hee kept himselfe vnknowne. Now Thomas of Reading, as I said before, being markt and kept for a fat pig, he was laid in the same chamber of death, but by reason Gray of Glocester chanced also to come that night, he escaped scalding. The next time he came, he was laid there again
 small time came to be so famous, that he was sent for to the University of Oxford, where he long time studied, and grew so excellent in the secrets of art and nature, that not England onely, but all Chris-tendome admired him. How the king sent for Fryer Bacon, and of the wonder-full things he shewed the king and queene. THE king being in Oxfordshire, at a Noblemans house, was very desirous to see this famous fryer, for he had heard many times of his wondrous things that he had done by his art therefore hee sent one for him to desire him to come to the court. Fryer Bacon kindly thanked the king by the messenger, and said, that he was at the kings service, and would suddenly attend him but sir, saith, he to the gentleman I pray make you haste, or else I shall be two houres before you at the court. For all your learning answered the gentleman I can hardly beleeve this, for schollers, old-men and travellers, may lye by authority. To strengthen your beliefe said Fryer Bacon I could presently shew you the last wench that you lay withall, but I will not at this time. One is as true as the other said the gentleman and I would laugh to see either. You shall see them both withi@n these foure houres, quoth the fryer, and therefore make what haste you can. I will prevent that by my speed said the gentleman and with that rid his way but he rode out of his way, as it should seem for he had but 
 seemed to have, drove the peaceful toilers of the sea from the island and occupied their settlements. The Wild Irish enjoyed, for a time at least, all the privileges of home rule, and the statement made by West Indian historians, that the colonists spent the time in fighting among themselves like Kilkenny cats, until the Government of Great Britain assumed the direction of their affairs, without the formality of conquest or treaty of annexation, may be, and probably, in justice, had better be, taken with a charitable pinch of salt. Be all that as it may, Anguilla became a British colony, and has re-mained under English rule until this day. The population of the island is estimated to be nearly two thou-sand five hundred souls, whereof only one hundred are whites, all the rest being either colored or of pure African blood. The island is under the Presidency of St. Christopher, but has a local government of its own, at the head of which is a stipendiary magistrate whose salary is a charge on the Imperial exchequer. This official is chair-man of a vestry composed of three members elected by the islanders, and three chosen by the Crown these seven gentlemen conduct the affairs of the colony, directing the disbursement of an annual revenue of less than £600. It is fair to say that the annual expenditures at no time exceed the income of this little government, and it may there-fore be presumed that the taxation to which the people of Anguilla are subjected is not very grievous to be borne, seeing that it amounts to no more than five shillings per capita per annum. There are two local courts on the island, from which an appeal lies to the Supreme Court of the Leeward Islands. Anguilla extends northeast and southwest for fourteen miles, and is at no place of greater breadth than three miles. On its northern side the hills rise to the height of two hundred feet, the highest eleva-tion being in the neighborhood of Crocus Bay, where is the chief settlement. Toward the south and west the land falls away to the sea, the southern shore being low, at a short distance seaward barely show-ing above high-water mark. Around this main island are numero
 Soldier will sell it for sixpence. And trust me, I doe now detest life, worse then a goat doth hate Basill. With that the Doctor prepared his instrument, and being ready to set to the Dukes eyes, he said, O stay Master Doctor, till I haue conueyed my Loues counte-nance downe into my heart Come hither my sweet, and let me giue thee my last kisse, while mine eyes may direct me to thy cherry lips. Then imbracing her in his armes, he said, O that I might giue thee a kisse of xx yeeres long, and to satisfie my greedy eyes with thy sight yet it doth somewhat content me, because thou art present at my punishment, that I may hold thee by the hand, to comfort my heart, at the sudden pricke of my eye. This being said, the Doctor performed his duty, and so put out the christall sight at what time D. Robert started vp and with a most manly courage said, I must thanke his Maiestie, that though hee depriueth me of my sight, yet he leaueth me eyes to weepe for my sinnes. But so soone as Margaret beheld the deed, she fell downe in a swoone and much a doe her dame had to recouer her life which when the Duke vnderstood, hee was wondrous woe, groaping for her with his bleeding eyes, saying O where is my Loue ? for Gods sake haue regard to her. And I pray you most heartily, good good-wife Gray, let her haue this fauour for my sake, that she may be vsed kindly. And with that the Keepers led him into the Castle, and Margaret was carried aw
 upon an undertaker, just for the sake of seeing a funeral waltzed through in bang up Hindu style. As for myself, I had made up my mind, that if it was not a case of life and death, so far as I was concerned, to treat all Hindu doctors and doctresses as Molière served his medical adviser@- Il me donne des remèdes je ne les prends pas, et je me guéris. In the midst of this cooly district there is an open space, an acre or two in extent, densely shaded by a very ancient, and far-spread-ing banyan-tree, under the branches of which the cooly people hold their market. It would be impossible to imagine a scene more un-like any that I had ever beheld in all my travels in America or Europe. The people, their wares, their manner of trading, their baskets, trays, tables, their manner, voices, gestures, all were strange and outlandish, for the Hindus lose but little of their national char-acteristics in the New World. As I passed through the crowd the sellers saluted respectfully, bowing as they said, Salaam, sahib then eagerly, but without clamor or violent gestures, besought me to purchase queer-looking eatables, utensils, ornaments, fabrics@-@in a word, all sorts of merchandise. There were venders of curry and curry-powder, purveyors of all kinds of food preserved in curry, curry to be taken away or to be eaten then and there@-@paper-pack-ages, boxes, bottles of it, jars, pots, cups, bags, cocoanut-shells, full of curry@-@and everything, living or inanimate, in the market-place, was as distinctively East Indian as the curry itself, save and ex-cepting a few Africans, Chinese, and Europeans, and their chattels and belongings. What I have written will serve to show how characteristically East Indian the cooly quarter of West Indian San Fernando really is, in all its precincts, environments, and aspects. I shall always regret I was unable to spend more time in observing the mysterious people, whose quaint manners, solemn appearance, fantastic costumes, and odd ways of conducting their affairs, differ as strangely and strikingly from the habits and customs of my own countrymen, or the people 
 -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and Publisher, 177,  me and my friend Brown The other night after dark we went out for a lark, @To come home with the milk in the morning. We were first rate old pals, looking after the gals, We had not been out long when we chanced to view, We walked up Regent St., when who should we meet, But two girls who stopp'd with us till the morning. Mind what you're at when you're out with your pals, Don't you get larking along with the gals, Or happen it may to you, as it did to Brown and me, I mean the other night when we went upon the spree. For a dance they were bent, to the Casino we went, To give a display on the fantastic toe We had the latest dance, the Prince Imperial from France, And we showed them the style for a warning.warning. The Polka was first, the Quadrille next did follow, At dancing, I tell you, we beat them all hollow My partner and pal, with this other gal, Kept it up all night till the morning. The ladies were shy, they said they were dry, And asked us some brandy-and-water to stand Me and Brown with each lass, drank glass after glass, The effects of which made me queer in the morning. What with dancing and drinking, and cutting a shine, Along with these ladies we both thought divine, We opened our eyes and stared with surprise, When we stayed out with them till the morning. We said they were rude, a row then ensued, And my gals fancy fellow pitched into me, Another pitch'd into Brown, right and left about the Which we very soon took as a warning.@@@@@@@ A swell said mine was his neice, then he called the police, And he gave us in charge, the row then did cease They took me and Brown where we very soon found Ourselves locked up till the morning. To the station were took, entered our name in a book, While our wives they were waiting at home all the night, When the clock had struck ten, me and Brown then, Were took before the beak in the morning. SHE  roses the night that first w@e met, Her lovely face was smiling beneath her curls of jet, Her footstep had the lightness, her voice the joyous tone, The token of a youthful heart where sorrow is unknown@@ I saw her but a moment, yet met@hinks I see her now, @@With a wreath of summer flowers upon her sunny brow. A wreath of orange blossoms when next we met she wore, @@@The expression of her features was more thoughtful than before,@@@ And standing by her side was one, who strove, and not in vain, To soothe her leaving that dear home she ne'er may see again I saw her but a moment, yet methinks I see her now, With her wreath of orange flowers upon her sunny brow. And once again I see that brow, no bridal wreath was there, The widow's sombre cap conceals her once luxuriant hair, She weeps in silent solitude and there is no one near, To press her hand within his own, and wipe away the tear I saw her broken-hearted, yet methinks I see her now, In the pride of youth and beauty, with a garland on, her brow. OUT ON THE SPREE, Continued. I tell you 'tis true, double X Mr. Blue, Said the fair ladies we give them in charge, They are of the swell mob, wanted them to rob, @@And send them home minus of cash in the morning. The beak with his grey hair, says young man you must pay, Without any dismay for your night on the spree@@@@@, You've been playing your larks along with those sparks, So I beg you'll take this as a warning. For cutting a shine I shall inflict a fine, The amount of ten shillings or twenty-one days Not a word then we spoke, we were regularly broke, But were put back in the cell till the morning. Now I sent for my wife, which caused grief and strife, For I had no money to pay for the fine Brown's wife also came, both did us blame, But they received us in the morning. @@@@@Now all young gents take warning by me, Stop at home with your wives and don't go on the spree, Or happen it may as it did to Brown and me, When we went on the spree in the mornin
 his lyfe, and sende hym a respyte that he may amende his lyfe, and do penaunce for his synnes. How Robert the Deuyll tolde his company he wolde goo to Rome for to be assoyled of his synnes. NOW is Robert come agayne to his companye whiche he founde syttynge at dyner, and whan they sawe hym they rose up and dyde hym reuerence than Robert began to rebuke theym for theyr vycyous lyuynge sayynge thus, My welbeloued felowes, I requyre you in the reuerence of God, that ye wyll herken, and take hede to this that I shall shewe you, ye knowe well how that we haue ledde hetherto an ungracyous and moost uycyous lyfe, robbed and pylled chyrches, forced women, rauysshed maydens, robbed and kylled marchauntes. We have robbed and kylled nonnes, holy aunkers, preestes, clerkes, and many other people without nombre haue we murdred and robbed, wherfore we be in the waye of endles dampnacyon, except that God haue mercy upon us. Wherefore I requyre you everychone for goddes sake that ye wyll chaunge your opynyon, and leue your abhomynable synnes, and do penaunces therefor, for I wyll goo to Rome to be shryuen and to haue penaunce for my synnes. When Robert thus had sayd, one of the theues rose and sayd to his companye in mockage, Nowe Syrs, take hede the foxe wyll be an aunker for he begynneth to preche, Robert mocketh fast with us, for he is our captayn
 SHORE.@ a musing mind with me combine, And grant me great relief, Whilst here alone I sigh and moan, I'm overwhelmed with grief Whilst here alone I sigh and moan, Away from friends at home, With troubled mind no rest can find, Since I left the Shamrock shore. In the blooming spring, when small birds sing, And the lambs did sport and play, My way I took, and friends forsook, Till I came to Dublin Quay I entered on board as a passenger, To England I sailed o'er, I bid farewell to all my friends All around the Shamrock shore. When young men all, both great and small, Go to the fields to walk, Whilst here alone I sigh and moan, To none of them can talk Whilst I remain but to bewail, For the maid that I adore, With a troubled mind, no rest can find, Since I left the Shamrock shore. To Glasgow fair I did repair, Some pleasure for to find, I own it was a pleasant place, Down by the flowery Clyde I own it was a pleasant place, For rich attire they wore, There's none so rare as can compare To the girls of the Shamrock shore. One evening fair to take the air, Down by yon shady grove, I heard some lads and lasses gay, A talking to their love It grieved me so rejoiced to see, As I had done before, All with that maid has my heart betrayed, That I left on the Shamrock shore. So now to conclude and make an end, My pen begins to fail, Farewell my honoured mother dear, And for me don't bewail. Farewell my honoured mother dear, And for me grieve no more, When I think long, I'll sing my song, In praise of the Shamrock  H. SUCH, Machine Printer Publisher, 177, Union Street,  ever I bid you farewell, My terrible sentence it has been commuted, But, oh ! I would rather have fell-And died on the scaffold than linger in pain, Tortured and bound by the sad felon's chains, A convict for life I am doomed to remain, So old Erin I bid you adieu. @@@@@@Oh Erin, sweet Erin, my poor despised country, My heart fondly clings towards thee, So I left my dear mother, my friends and relations, In hopes that I would see them free. With health fast declining, afflicted and sore, From the land of Columbia I freely came o'er, But Erin, dear Erin, my sweet native shore, I for ever must bid you adieu. Like a gallant and true-hearted son of Hibernia, I strove for my country's cause, I was longing to see dear old Erin set free, From all cruel and tyrannic laws ! But by spies and informers, I alas ! was betrayed, And false declarations against me they made, I was sentenced to death, but by some friendly aid My life has been spared from the tree. At Kilmainham I was to be hanged, drawn, and quartered, And for my sad fate was prepared, But government yielded to the voice of the people, And agreed that my life should be spared But, oh ! 'twould been better, much better for me To end my existence and die on the tree, But a convict for life I am now doomed to be, So old Erin I bid you adieu. Farewell dearest mother, may the Lord above guard you And my gentle sisters so dear, May he comfort and bless you, and always caress you, And keep you from danger and fear. In the cause of my country I stood brave and bold, Regardless of all they could do, or my country I've lived@-@for my country I'll die, F So sweet Erin I bid you adie
 IN PRAISE OF HOPE. HOPE, of all ills that men endure The only cheap and universal cure ! Thou captive's freedom, and thou sick man's health ! Thou loser's victory, and thou beggar's wealth ! Thou manna, which from Heaven we eat, To every taste a several meat Thou strong retreat, thou sure entailed estate, Which nought has power to alienate ! Thou pleasant, honest flatterer, for none Flatter unhappy men, but thou alone ! Hope, thou first-fruits of happiness ! Thou gentle dawning of a bright success ! Thou good preparative, without which our joy Does work too strong, and, whilst it cures, destroy Who out of Fortune's reach dost stand, And art a blessing still in hand ! Whilst thee, her earnest-money, we retain, We certain are to gain, Whether she her bargain break, or else fulfil Thou only good, not worse for ending ill@! Brother of Faith, 'twixt whom and thee The joys of Heaven and earth divided be ! Though Faith be heir, and have the fixed estate, Thy portion yet in moveables is great. Happiness itself's all one In thee, or in possession  to this and its companion piece, Against Hope, John-son says ' What Cowley has written upon Hope shows an unequalled fertility of invention 
 himselfe to him so soone as hee had paid all his debts which he now had done, for he owed not one peny to any man living. Well said Fryer Bacon, conti-nue thy sorrow for thy sinnes, and to morrow meete him without feare, and be thou content to stand to the next mans iudgement that shall come that way, whether thou doest belong to the Devill or no feare not, but do so, and be thou assured that I will be he that shall come by, and will give such iudgement on thy side, that thou shalt bee free from him with that Fryer Bacon went home, and the gentleman went to his prayers. In the morning the gentleman after that hee had blessed himselfe went to the wood where he found the Devill ready for him, so soone as he came neere, the Devill said, now deceiver are you come, now shall thou see that I can and will prove that thou hast paid all thy debts, and therefore thy soule belongeth to me. Thou art a deceiver said the gentleman and gavest me money to cheat me of my soule, for else why wilt thou be thy own judge let me have some other to iudge between us. Content said the Devill, take whom thou wilt then I will have said the gentleman the next man that com-meth this way hereto the Devill agreed. No sooner were these words ended, but Fryer Bacon came by, to whom this gentleman speake, and requested, that he would be iudge in a waighty matter betweene them two the Fryer said, he was content, so both parties were agreed the Devill said they were, and told Fryer Bacon how the case stood between them in this manne
@-@H. P. Such, Machine and General Printer, 177, Union  that love the red and@@ blue,@@@@ And drink a health to those brave lads that made the Russians Then fill the glass and let it pass, three cheers and one cheer more, F@or theTwentieth of September, Eighteen hundred Fifty@-four. We sailed from Kala@mita Bay, a@nd soon we made the coast, Determined we would do our best in spite of brag or boast We sprang to land upon the strand, and slept on Russia's shore, On the fourteenth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four. We marched along until we came upon the Al@ma's banks. We halted just beneath their lines to breathe and close our ranks Advance ! we heard, and at the word right thro' the brook we bore, On the twentieth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four. We scrambled through the clustering grapes, then came the battle's brunt,@@@@ The officers all cheered us on, our colours waved in front@@@@@@ There fighting well, full many fell, alas ! to rise no more, @@@@On the twentieth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four@@. The French they had the right that day, and flank'd the Russian line,@@@@@@ While'st full upon their front they saw the British bayonets shine With hearty cheers we@stunn'd their ears amidst the cannon's roar On the twentieth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four. A pic-nic party Menschikoff had asked to see the fun, The ladies came at twelve o'clock to see the battle won They found the day too hot to stay@, and the Princ@e felt rather sore, On the twentieth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four. For when he called his carriage up the French came up likewise, And so he took French leave at once and left them to the prize The Chasseurs took his pocket book, the Zouaves sack'd his store, On the twentieth of September, eighteen hundred fifty-four. A letter to old Nick they found, and this was what it said, To meet their bravest men, my Liege, your soldiers do not dread But devils then, not mortal men the Russian generals swore, Drove them off the heights of Alma, in September, fifty@-four. Here's a health to noble Raglan, to Campbell, and to Brown, And all the gallant Frenchmen who shared the day's renown Whilst we displayed the black cockade, and they the tricolour, The Russian hue was black and blue, in September, fifty-four. Then let us drink a toast to-night, your glasses take in hand, And here around the festive board in solemn silence stand Before we part let each true heart drink once to those no more, Who fought their fight on Alma's height in September, fifty-four.  ye gang awa' Jamie, Far across the sea, laddie, When ye gang tae Germanie, What will ye send tae me, laddie ? HE-@I'll sen' ye a braw new gown. Jeanie, I'll' sen' ye a braw new gown, lassie, An' it shall be o' silk an' gowd, Wi' Valenciennes set round, lassie. SHE@-@That's nae gift ava', Jamie, That's nae gift ava', laddie, There's nae a gown in a' the land, I'd like when ye're awa', Jamie, HE@-@When I come back again, Jeanie, When I come back again, lassie, I'll bring wi' me a gallant gay, To@ be your ain gudeman, lassie. SHE@-@Be my gudeman yoursel', Jamie, Be my gudeman yoursel' laddie, An' tak' me owre to Germanie, Wi' you at hame to dwell, laddie. HE@-@I dinna ken hoo that would dae, Jeanie, I dinna ken hoo that would dae lassie, For I've a wife and bai@rnies three,@@ @@And I'm no sure how ye'd 'gree, lassie. SHE@-@You should hae telt me that in time, Jamie, You should hae telt me that in time, laddie,@@@@@@ For had I kent o' your fause heart, @@@You ne'er had gotten mine, laddie. HE@-@Your e'en were like a spell, Jeanie, Your e'en were like a spell, lassie, That ilka day bewitched me sae, I couldna' help mysel', lassie. SHE@-@Gae back to your wife an' hame, Jamie, Gae back to your ba@irnies three, laddie, And I will pray they ne'er may thole, A broken heart like mine, laddie. HE@-@Dry that tearfu' e'e, Jeanie, My story's a' a lee, lassie, @@I've neither wife nor bairnies three, And I'll wed nane but thee, lassie@. SHE@-@Think weel before you rue, Jamie, Think weel before you rue, laddie, For I've neither gowd nor lands, To be a match for you, laddie. HE@-@Blair in Athol's mine, Jeanie, Little Dunkeld is mine, lassie, St. Johnston's bower, and Hunting-tower, And a' that's mine is thine, lassie. 
 ELEGIAC STANZAS. SUGGESTED BY A PICTURE OF PEELE CASTLE IN A STORM PAINTED BY SIR GEORGE BEAUMONT. I WAS thy neighbour once, thou rugged Pile ! Four summer weeks I dwelt in sight of thee I saw thee every day and all the while Thy form was sleeping on a glassy sea. So pure the sky, so quiet was the air@! So like, so very like, was day to day ! Whene'er I looked, thy image still was there It trembled, but it never passed away. How perfect was the calm ! It seemed no sleep, No mood, which season takes away, or brings I could have fancied that the mighty Deep Was even the gentlest of all gentle things. Ah ! then if mine had been the painter's hand To express what then I saw and add the gleam, The light that nev@er was on sea or land, The consecration, and the Poet's dream I would have planted thee, thou hoary pile, Amid a world how different from this ! Beside a sea that could not cease to smile On tranquil land, beneath a sky of bliss. A picture had it been of lasting ease, Elysian quiet, without toil or strife No motion but the moving tide, a breeze, Or merely silent Nature's breathing life. Such, in the fond illusion of my heart, Such picture would I at that time have made And seen the soul of truth in every part, A steadfast peace that might not be betraye
 in the Common-wealth there were few or no beggers at all poore people, whom God lightly blessed with most children, did by meanes of this occupation so order them, that by the time that they were come to be sixe or seuen yeeres of age, they were able to get their owne bread Idlenesse was then banished our coast, so that it was a rare thing to heare of a thiefe in those dayes. Therefore it was not without cause that Clothiers were then both honoured and loued, among whom these nine persons in this kings dayes were of great credit, viz. Tho. Cole of Reading, Gray of Glocester, Sutton of Salisburie, Fitzallen of Worcester, commonly called William of Worcester Tom Doue of Excester, and Simon of South-hampton, alias Supbroth who were by the King called, The sixe worthy Husbands of the West. Then were there three liuingin the North, that is to say, Cutbert of Kendall, Hodgekins of Hallifax, and Martin By@ram of Manchester. Euery one of these kept a great number of seruants at worke, spinners, carders, weauers, fullers, dyers, sheerement, and rowers, to the great admiration of all those that came into their houses to behold them. Now you shall vnderstand, these gallant Clothiers, by reason of their dwelling places, separated themselues in three seuerall companies Gray of Glocester, William of Worcester, and Thomas of Reading, because their iourney to London was all one way, they conuersedcom-monly together And Doue of Excester, Sutton of Salis-burie, and Simon of South-ham@pton, theyinlikesortke
THE ONE HORSE CHAY. M RS. Bubb wag gay and free, fair and fat, and forty-three, And blooming as a peony in buxom May, The toast she long had been of Farringdon Within, And tilled the better half of the one horse chay.@ Mrs. Bubb said to her lord, you can Bubb, well afford, Whate'er a Common councilman in prudence may,@@ We've no brats to plague our lives, and the soap con-cern it thrives, @@@@@@So let us have a trip to Brighton in the one horse chay. Mr. Bubb said to his wife, now I think upon't my life, 'Tis three weeks at least to next boiling day, The dog days are set in and London's growing thin, So I'll order out Old Nobbs and the one horse chay. Now Nobbs it must be told, was rather fat and old, Its colour was white, añd it had been gray He was round as a scot, and when soundly whipt would trot, Full five miles an hour in a one horse chay. When at Brighton they were housed, and had stuffed and caroused, Over a bowl of rack punch, Mr. Bubb did say,@-I've ascertained my dear the mode of dipping here, From the ostler who is clearing up the one horse chay.  is far from the land, where her young hero sleeps, And lovers are round her sighing But coldly she turns from their gaze and weeps, For her heart in his grave is lying ! She sings the wild song of her dear native plains, Every note which he loved awaking@-Oh ! little they think, who delight in her strains, How the heart of the minstrel is breaking ! He had lived for his love, for his country he died, They were all that to life had entwined him,@-Nor soon shall the tears of his country be dried, Nor long will his love stay behind him. Oh ! make her a grave where the sunbeams rest, When they promise a glorious morrow They'll shine o'er her sleep, like a smile from the West, From her own loved island of sorrow.@ as the stocks, And eigh@teen-pence each time are obliged for to pay, Court corruption here say I, makes everything so high, And I wish I had come without my one horse chay. And as I hope, says she to thrive, 'tis frying folks alive, The King and their extortioners are leagued I say, 'Tis encouraging of such, to go and pay so much, So we'll set them at defiance with our one horse chay Old Nobbs, I'm sartin, may be trusted gig or cart in, He takes every matter in an easy way, He'll stand like a post while we dabble on the coast, And return back to dress in our one horse chay. So out they drove all drest, so gaily in their best, And finding in their rambles a snug little bay, They undress'd at their leisure, paddled out at their pleasure, And left every-thing behind in their one horse chay. But while so snugly sure, that all things were secure, They flounced about like porpoises or whales at play, Some young unlucky imps, who prowled about for shrimps, Stole up to reconnoitre the one horse chay. Old Nobbs in quiet mood was sleeping as he stood, He might possibly be dreaming of his corn or hay, Not a foot did he wag, as they whipt out every rag, And gutted the contents of the one horse chay. When our pair was soused enough, and returning in their buff Oh@ there was the veugeance and old Nick to pay, Madam shrieked in cousternation, Mr. Bubb he swore damnation, To find the empty state of the one horse chay. ONE HORSE CHAY, Continued.@@@ @@Come bundle in with me, we must squeeze for once says he, @he, And manage this here business in the best way we may, We've no other way to choose, not a moment must we lose, Or the tide will float us off in our one horse chay. So noses, sides, and knees, altogether did they squeeze, And packed in little compass they trotted it away, As dismal as two dummies, head and hands stuck out like mummies, From beneath the little apron of the one horse chay. Mr. Bubb @gee-upp'd in vain, and strove to jerk the rein, Nobbs found he had the option to work or play, @@So he would'nt mend his pace, though they'd fain have run a race, To escape the merry gazers at the one horse chay. Now good people laugh your fill, and fancy if you will, For I'm fairly out of breath and have had my say, The trouble and rout to wrap and get them out, When they drove to their lodgings in their one horse chay. SHE 
 raise for good the supplicating voice, But leave to Heaven the measure and the choice Safe in His power, whose eyes discern afar The secret ambush of a specious prayer, Implore His aid, in His decisions rest, Secure, whate'er He gives, He gives the best. Yet when the sense of sacred presence fires, And strong devotion to the skies aspires, Pour forth thy fervours for a healthful mind, Obedient passions, and a will resigned For love, which scarce collective man can fill For patience, sovereign o'er transmuted ill For faith, that, panting for a happier seat, Counts death kind Nature's signal of retreat These goods for man the laws of Heaven ordain These goods He grants, who grants the power to gain With these celestial Wisdom calms the mind, And makes the happiness she does not find. -@Johnson. CCXLII. ELEGY. WRITTEN IN A COUNTRY CHURCHYARD. THE curfew tolls the knell of parting day, † The lowing herd wind slowly o'er the  Elegy was first published anonymously on 16th Feb., 1751, in a quarto pamphlet, price 6d., entitled, An Elegy Wrote in a Country Churchyard. It was begun at Stoke-Pogis in 1742, and finished in June, 1750. The churchyard is that of Stoke-Pogis in Buckingham-shire a few miles from Eton and Windsor , and in it Gray himself was buried in the same grave as his mother on the 6th August, 1771. See my Aldine edition of Gray's Poetical Works. † Gray quotes Dante as the original. Cary's translation is -' And pilgrim, newly on his road with love, Thrills if he hears the vesper bell from far, That seems to mourn for the expiring day '. -@Purgatory, viii. 
 like a meteor, to the troubled air And with a master's hand, and prophet's fire, Struck the deep sorrows of his lyre. ' Hark, how each giant-oak, and desert cave, Sighs to the torrent's awful voice beneath ! O'er thee, oh King ! their hundred arms they wave, Revenge on thee in hoarser murmurs breathe Vocal no more, since Cambria's fatal day, To high-born Hoel's harp, or soft Llewellyn's lay. I. 3. ' Cold is Cadwallo's tongue, That hushed the stormy main Brave Urien sleeps upon his craggy bed Mountains, ye mourn in vain Modred, whose magic song Made huge Plinlimmon bow his cloud-topped head. On dreary Arvon's shore they lie, Smeared with gore, and ghastly pale Far, far, aloof the affrighted ravens sail The famished eagle screams, and passes by. Dear lost companions of my tuneful art, Dear, as the light that visits these sad eyes, Dear, as the ruddy drops that warm my heart, Ye died amidst your dying country's cries@-No more I weep. They do not sleep. On yonder cliffs, a grisly band, I see them sit, they linger yet, Avengers of their native land With me in dreadful harmony they join, And weave with bloody hands the tissue of thy  ' The image was taken from a well-known picture of Raphael, representing the Supreme Being in the vision of Ezekiel. There are two of these paintings, one at Florence, the other at Paris.@ '-Gray. 28. Hoel, a famous bard, son of Owen, prince of North Wales. Cadwallo, Urien and Modred were Welsh bards of the sixth centur
 in his palays in the cyte of Rome, to whiche feste were assembled al the chefe of the lande, amonge whome there was a Jewe whiche was receyuer of the moost part of all themperour's landes, and whan euery man was set at the table Robert walked up and doune in the hall hauynge his dogge in his armes playnge the fole as he was wonte to doo, and thus came to the table behynd the forsayd Jewe, whiche was set at the emperours table, and Robert came behynde his backe and knocked hym on the sholder, the Jewe lefte hym and tourned his face shortely behynde hym, and Robert hadde up his dogges arse redy and sette it upon the Jewe's face. The emperour and his lordes this seynge, laughed and had good game thereat, but the Jewe was wroth, and foule ashamed, but he durst save nothynge at the tyme. Than Robert sette downe his dogge and incontynente the dogge lepte upon the table, and dyde soo moche with his mouth and fete, that he caste doune all the mete under the table. And in this maner Roberte spente his tyme euen without spekynge, lyke as the heremyte had co@mmaunded hym, and euer he dyde some madde or merry conceyte to cause the emperour to laughte or be mery. How Robert threwe downe a bryde on a foule donge-hyll, and how he put a lyuynge catte in an hole sethynge potte with podred befe. IT befel upon a tyme that there was a bryde sholde goo to chyrche to be wedded, whiche was gayly apparelled, as unto a bryde apperteyned Robert seynge this bry
 thou withdraw then the wolf rages wide, And the lion glares through the dun forest. The fleeces of our flocks are covered with Thy sacred dew protect them with thine influence ! -@Blake. CCLXIII. THE SONS OF LABOUR. Go then ! and see them rising with the sun, Through a long course of daily toil to run See them beneath the dog-star's raging heat, When the knees tremble and the temples beat Behold them, leaning on their scythes, look o'er The labour past, and toils to come explore See them alternate suns and showers engage, And hoard up aches and anguish for their age Through fens and marshy moors their steps pursue, When their warm pores imbibe the evening dew Then own that labour ma@y as fatal be To these thy slaves, as thine excess to thee. Amid this tribe too oft a manly pride Strives in strong toil the fainting heart to hide There may you see the youth of slender frame Contend with weakness, weariness, and shame Yet, urged along, and proudly loth to yield, He strives to join his fellows of the field Till long-contending nature droops at last, Declining health rejects his poor repast. His cheerless spouse the coming danger sees, And mutual murmurs urge the slow disease. Yet grant them health 'tis not for us to tell, Though the head droops not, that the heart is well Or will you praise that homely, healthy fare, Plenteous and plain, that happy peasant's share ! Oh, trifle not with wants you cannot feel, 
 motion in his will against his reason No thought 'gainst thought nor as 'twere in the confines Of wishing and repenting doth possess Only a wayward and tumultuous peace But, all parts in him friendly and secure, Fruitful of all best things in all worst seasons, He can with every wish be in their plenty When the infectious guilt of one foul crime Destroys the free content of all our time. -@Chapman. LXXXII. OTHELLO'S COURTSHIP. MOST potent, grave, and reverend signiors, My very noble and approved good masters,@-That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter, It is most true true, I have married her The very head and front of my offending Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech, And little blessed with the set phrase of peace For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith, Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used Their dearest action in the tented field And little of this great world can I speak, More than pertains to feats of broils and battle And therefore little shall I grace my cause In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience, I will a round unvarnished tale deliver Of my whole course of love what drugs, what charms, What conjuration, and what might@y magic For such proceeding I am charged withal I won his daughter. Her father loved me oft invited me Still questioned me the story of my life,
 house was known to all the vagrant train, He chid their wanderings, but relieved their pain The long remembered beggar was his guest, Whose beard descending swept his aged breast The ruined spendthrift, now no longer proud, Claimed kindred there, and had his claims allowed The broken soldier, kindly bade to stay, Sat by his fire, and talked the night away, Wept o'er his wounds, or, tales of sorrow done, Shouldered his crutch and showed how fields were won. Pleased with his guests, the good man learned to glow, And quite forgot their vices in their woe Careless their merits or their faults to scan, His pity gave ere charity began. Thus to relieve the wretched was his pride, And e'en his failings leaned to virtue's side But in his duty, prompt at every call, He watched and wept, he prayed and felt for all And, as a bird each fond endearment tries To tempt its new-fledged offspring to the skies, He tried each art, reproved each dull delay, Allured to brighter worlds, and led the way. Beside the bed where parting life was laid, And sorrow, guilt, and pain, by turns dismayed, The reverend champion stood. At his control, Despair and anguish fled the struggling soul Comfort came down the trembling wretch to raise, And his last faltering accents whispered praise. At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the venerable place Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools, who came to scoff, remained to pray. The service past, around the pious man, With ready zeal, each honest rustic ra
 you can helpe and yet such is my foolishnesse, had it not beene for that, I thinke verily I had granted your suite ere now. But seeing you vrge me so much to know what it is, I will tell you it is sir, your ill-fauoured great nose, that hangs sagging so lothsomely to your lips, that I cannot finde in my heart so much as to kisse you. W@hat, my nose, quoth he ? is my nose so great and I neuer knew it ? certainely I thought my nose to be as comely as any mans but this it is we are all apt to think well of our selues, and a great deale better then we ought but let me see ? my nose ! by the masse tis true, I doe now feele it my selfe Good Lord, how was I blinded before ? Hereupon it is certaine, that the Knight was driuen into such a conceit, as none could perswade him but his nose was so great indeed his Lady, or any other that spake to the contrarie, he would say they were flatterers, and that they lied, insomuch that he would be ready to strike some of them that commended and spake well of his nose. If they were men of worship, or any other that contraried him in his opinion, he would sweare they flowted him, and be ready to challenge them the field. He became so ashamed of himselfe, that after that day he would neuer goe abroad, whereby Margaret was well rid of his company. On a time, a wise and graue Gentleman seeing him grounded in his conceit so strongly, gaue his Lady counsell, not to contrary him therein, but rather say that she would seeke out some cunning Physicianto cu
 characters and spells but is in the following tale transformed from the greatest philosopher of his age into a beneficent and powerful conjuror. The history of Fryer Bacon as related in these pages, was probably written towards the close of the sixteenth century, and is we may suppose a collection of the various traditions respecting him which were current among all classes of the community when the narrative was compiled. Many of the incidents con-tained in it are widely diffused in other shapes, and the name of our hero has doubtless often been con-nected with them merely from their being mutual subjects of popular fable but the Brazen Head and the wonderful Perspective Glass, which he is reported to have made, seem deserving of particular notice, though any credit which may be given to him for his exertions in constructing such a head, by the which hee would have walled England round with brass, he will I fear have to share with so many who are said to have possessed similar skill in the construction of magical images that it will be consi-derably diminished. Virgil is reported to have con-structed certain images called Salvacio Romae, which are fully described in that extraordinary production the Lyfe of Virgilius which will be found in the second volume of this collection. Robert Greathe
 inward boundaries of British Guiana are undefined, for the colony extends from the ocean to an unexplored and almost unexplorable wilderness of forests, jungles, cane-brakes-@inhabited by brutish, if not savage, races of men, infested by reptiles and wild beasts, swarming with pestilential flying things that make living or travelling in the in-terior of Guiana a torment not lightly to be endured by white men. It is estimated that the three provinces contain a total area of sixty-six million acres, an extent of country a little larger than the States of New Jersey and New York combined. So little is known about the wild lands of this great back country that, notwithstanding the belief in the existence of valuable mines of gold and silver within their confines, no well organized plan of exploration or geological survey has as yet been undertaken, although it is vaguely hinted that numerous prospectors are wandering about the land in search of treas-ures, many of them only to find lonely graves@-@if buried their bodies ever shall be, where the vultures and other carrion birds may not come at them in horrid banqueting. The total population of British Guiana may be set down in round numbers at 265,000 souls of this number about 65,000 are either natives of Hindustan or their descendants, 4,393 of Chinese ances-try@-@the great majority of the people being Africans or colored cre-oles. Of the aborigines of this part of the world, careful guessing puts their aggregate at 7,656. As these folks are nomadic by nature, inhabiting the vast, trackless forests remote from civilization, it is not practicable to obtain any correct tale of them. An idea of the woful state of ignorance of the inhabitants may be formed from the last census-reports, which state that 77,396 can, and 174,790 can-not read. Why wonder at this condition of affairs ? The Afri-cans and Asiatics have no ambition to distinguish between their right hand and their left, they are not taught, and, for that matter, being regarded only as labor-saving beings cheaper to operate than machinery, have no need to know more than how to work for and not to steal from white men. The affairs of this colony are ma
 the rest of the Clothiers wiues heard thereof, they would be suted in the like sort too so that euer since, the wiues of South-hampton, Salisbury, of Glocester, Worcester, and Reading, went all as gallant and as braue as any Londoners wiues. How the Clothiers sent the King aide into France, and how he ouercame his brother Robert, and brought him into England, and how the Clothiers feasted his Maiesty and his sonne at Reading. Chap. 7. THE Kings Maiestie being at the warres in France, against Lewis the French King, and Duke Robert of Normandy, sending for diuers supplies of Souldiers out of England, the Clothiers at their owne proper cost set out a great number, and sent them ouer to the King. Which Roger Bishop of Salisbury, who gouerned the Realme in the Kings absence, did certifie the King thereof, with his letters written in their commendations. And afterwards it came to passe, that God sent his Highnes victory ouer his enemies, and hauing taken his brother prisoner, brought him most ioyfully with him into England, and appointed him to be kept in Cardif@e Castle prisoner, yet with this fauour, that he might hunt and hawke where he would, vp and downe the Country, and in this sorte hee liued a good while, of whom we will speake more at large hereafter. The King being thus come home, after his Winters rest, he made his Summers progresse into the West-countrey, to take a view of all the chiefe Towne
 hym and sayd unto hym thus, My sone me thyncke it necessary and tyme, for me to gete you a wyse scole mayster, to lerne vertues and doctrine, for ye be of age ynoughe, and whan the duke had thus sayd, he betoke his sone to a good dyscreet and wyse scole mayster to rule and teche hym all good condy-cyons and maners. How Robert kylled his scole mayster. IT fell upon a daye that his scole mayster sholde chastyse Robert and would have made hym to have lefte his cursed codycyons, but Robert gate a murderer or bodkin, and thrast his mayster in the bely that his guttes fell at his fete, and so fell downe deed to the erth, and Robert threw his boke ayenst the walles in despyte of his mayster saynge thus now haue I taughte the that never preste, nor clerke shal correct me, nor be my mayster. And from thens forth there coude no mayster be founde that was so bolde to take in hande to teche and correcte this Roberte, but were glad to let hym alone and have his owne w@ayes, and he put hym-selfe to uyce and myschefe, and to no maner of vertue nor grace, nor wolde he lerne for no man lyuynge, but mocked both God and holy chyrche. And when he came to the churche and founde the prestes, and clarkes syngynge Goddes seruyce, he came preuely behynd them, and caste ashes or duste in theyr mouthes in dyspyte of God. And when he sawe any body in the chyrche besy in theyr prayers he wolde come behyn
 log, for meet it was that I should set it down. From my note-book, therefore, I am able to copy the following extract verbatim, adding nothing and keeping nothing back. I say, old man, that pepper-pot isn't half bad. I went in for such a lot of it@-@regular blow-out, by Jove ! Awfully decent chaps. One of 'em told me how to make one. Get a lot of peppers, cayenne, bird's-eye peppers, long, round, all kinds, green, red, yellow, such a jolly lot of 'em. Cut 'em all up. Makes my eyes water to think of it d'ye know@ !-I say, did you go in for it ? A pause, and inaudible remark by the old man. Then you put this mess in a stone pot. Then, by Jove ! fellow didn't say@-@I forgot to ask if you cooked it -@ask him on return trip@-@then you put in vinegar and catsup and spices, all that sort of thing@-@dash of bitters. No that's swizzle. By Jove ! I say, did you go in for swizzle ? A very long pause audible snore by the old man. Then you take any blessed thing left over from dinner or breakfast, chop, leg of fowl, sausage, bacon forget whether he said fish -@anything left of something too good to throw away or give to beggars, don't you know. Tomatoes, pickles, all that lot. Only fancy ! Any time you feel peckish@-@there you are. It's always going on, is pepper-pot you never wash the blooming thing out keeps for years. Decent old chappy that. Said it was good for dyspepsia and that sort o' thing only trouble is, you eat such a lot of it. To this formula I must needs add that casareep is a necessary and all-important ingredient of a right pepper-pot. Altogether, and under the peculiarly hospitable circumstances of his acquiring the knowledge how to concoct this West Indian olla podrida, my ship-mate was not far out of the way. From his sketch of it, it will be seen that pepper-pot is a perennial free lunch, a perpetual zakooshka, à la Russe, a never-failing meal between meals for, as my fellow-traveller said, it goes on forever, like the brook in the song, or a Chinese drama, and I can testify it is palatable. Moreover, if you are lined like a salamander you can eat such a lot of it, notwithstanding i
 Three in One he was reminded of his vow, and accordingly@ gave to the island the name of La Trinidad, and so it is known until this day. The ships of Columbus entered the Gulf of Paria from the south, passing through the Serpent's Mouths, for so are called the channels between Trinidad and the mainland. Tarrying a few days at the island of the three mountains, the squadron sailed away through the Dragon's Mouths to sea again, and Colon continued on his third voyage of discovery. Since Columbus' day many seafar-ing heroes have entered the Gulf of Paria, but none of them half so grand and famous as the one-armed, one-eyed sailor-man who passed through Boca de Navios on June 7,@1805, in the frigate Victory, one of a fleet of thirteen sail that had chased twenty-eight French and Span-ish war-ships from the Straits of Gibraltar to the Caribbean Sea. Had Nelson, says a writer, in prophetic strain, found the hostile squadron under the lee of Trinidad, the mouths of the Orinoco would now be as famous in naval history@ as the Delta of the Nile. Not finding his enemies at Trinidad, he sought them at Martinique, whence they retreated like flying-fish before a hunting-shark. He had hoped to fight them where Podney destroyed the fleet of Count de Grasse but the allied navy escaped to sea, and so he hunted them back to the Mediterranean, overtook them at Trafalgar, won a hundred monuments, and died, leaving England an all but broken-hearted nation. About two o'clock in the afternoon the Barracouta cast anchor in the Gulf of Paria, in front of Port of Spain, at a distance of more than a mile from shore for no nearer to the landing-place might she venture, because of the shallowness of the water. Soon after our ar-rival in port, being on my way ashore in a small boat, I beheld near the quay at the foot of one of the principal streets of Port of Spain a stern-wheel steam-boat, a counterpart of the uncouth, preposterous, con-cerns that are to be seen crawling through the mud of the Upper Mis-souri. This machine, Neptune forbid that I should call it vessel !@-this peripatetic combination of summer hotel, liquor-saloon, and freight depot, five or six times in a twelvemonth, travels from Trinidad 
 they gave the name of Dit or Dité, a name applied sometimes to compositions of a very different character. The romance of Robert le Diable underwent this process, and in this new form it con-sists of two hundred and fifty-four strophes, each consisting of four monorhymes. The words of the old French Poem, edited by M. Tre-butien, as well as the allusions it contains to tourna-ments and the usages of chivalry clearly shew that it cannot be older than the thirteenth century. The following specimen of the language may be of interest to the reader. Ichi cōmenche li Romans de Robert le diable ensi cō vous ores el liure. Or entendes, grāt et menor, Iadis al tans anchienor Avoit . i. duc en normandie Dont bien est drois q¯ ie vō die. Preudome ert et de grāt lignage Et si avoit mlt' vaselage Asses estoit haus bon et prous, De ses armes chevalerous. Si baron de sa duchete, El point de son millor ae Li loerent si chevalier Que il preist femme et mollier. Li dus bonement leur otroie Et chil se missent a la voie. Que vous feroie pl' lonc cō
 gay motes that people the sunbeams, Or likest hovering dreams, The fickle pensioners of Morpheus' train. But hail, thou Goddess, sage and holy ! Hail, divinest Melancholy ! Whose saintly visage is too bright To hit the sense of human sight, And therefore to our weaker view O'erlaid with black, staid Wisdom's hue Black but such as in esteem Prince Memnon's sister might beseem, Or that starred Ethiop queen that strove To set her beauty's praise above The Sea-nymphs, and their powers offended. Yet thou art higher far descended Thee bright-haired Vesta long of yore To solitary Saturn bore His daughter she in Saturn's reign Such mixture was not held a stain. Oft in glimmering bowers and glades He met her, and in secret shades Of woody Ida's inmost grove, While yet there was no fear of Jove. Come, pensive Nun, devout and pure, Sober, steadfast, and demure, All in a robe of darkest grain Flowing with majestic train, And sable stole of cypress lawn Over thy decent shoulders drawn. Come, but keep thy wonted state With even step and musing gait, And looks commércing with the skies, Thy rapt soul sitting in thine eyes There, held in holy passion stil
 doth more harme alone than all we do, how thynke ye wyll he be longe thus holy. Yet sayd Robert, Gentyll felawes I praye you for goddes sake leue your condycyons, and thynke on our soule, and do penaunce for your moost fellest stynkynge synnes, and crye upon oure lorde for mercy and forgeueness, and he wyl forgeue you.@@@ Whan Robert had sayd thus, than spake to hym one of the theues and sayd, I praye you mayster be in pease, for it auayleth not what ye saye, ye do but spende your tyme in wast, for I nor my companye wyll not amende our lyfe for no man lyuynge. And all his companye commended his saynge, and sayden all with one voyce, He sayth trewe, for and we sholde dye, we wyll not leue our olde condycyons and cursed lyfe, but and yf we haue done moche hurte hetherto we wyll do moche more hereafter. How Robert the Deuyll kylled all his companye. ROBERT herynge the faste and wycked opynyon and myscheuous purpose of his company waxed angry, and thought yf they remayne and abyde styll here, they wyl doo grete myschefe and murdre, but he wente preuely unto the dore and shyte it fast, and gate a grete staffe and layde one of the theues on the hede that he fell downe deed to the erth. And so he serued one after an other, tyll he hadde kylled them everychone, thenne sayd he thus to them, Syrs, I haue rewarded you after your deserte, and by cause ye have done 
LAN-GO-LEE. A  border of famous Cork city, @T@@@o fair London town it was my intent, I stepp'd up to Cove, where I met with a captain, Who told me to Bristol he fully was bent. I soon got on deck where I saw the wide ocean, I espied a large ship and she lying in full motion, To turn back to Cork, sir, I had a great notion, To sit with my friends and sing Lan-go-lee. Said I to the captain, consider the danger That now may attend us in crossing the main, And I to the roaring of seas like a stranger, Perhaps never more to return again. The only request I beg of you now, sir, If you got another ship, pray bring the two, sir, If one should be lost that the other might do sir, And then we'll go safe, singing Lan-go-lee. The ca@ptain replied, my hearty good fellow, To think of another ship that could not be, For all the best treasure that ever you mastered, That would not be plenty to satisfy me. I cried, blood an ouns, what makes you unwilling ? If money you want here's another five shillings, So bring both your ships and be shure of the rigging, And then we'll go safe, singing Lan-go-lee. Our ship she set sail with a most pleasant gale, Till she turne@d about then the deep I could see, It was then my poor heart it began for to wreck, When I thought of the joys of my own country. At length Lundy Island appear@ed in my sight, sir, An@d with a loud voice I most eagerly cried, sir, Saying, here is Black-rock draw your ship along-side, sir, And then you'll be safe singing Lan-go-lee. The storm arose and our ship she was tossed Just like a football when kicked in a crowd The captain replied, we shall all be lost, For each man's assistance he then cried aloud I under the deck like a mouse for to creep, sir, Expecting each moment to fall in the deep, sir, I on me knees most bitterly weep'd, sir, Faith ! I'd no great mind to sing Lan-go-lee. When I returned the steamer was over, Our ship she not seemingly stirr'd but stood still, I stepp'd upon deck where I soon did recover, And safely we landed in a place they call'd Pill. I packed up the remainder of all my sea store, sir, And in a small ship they put me on shore, sir, Going into a kingdom I ne'er was before, sir@, @@@@I stirr'd up my heart and sung Lan-go-le@e.@@@ I hurried myself to a public-house, @@@Where I called for a gallon of the best beer@@@, To crown me with liquor and more resolution, The landlady cried, my good fellow, don't fear. You may drink a plenty of porter and gin, sir, Your Irish be@haviour my favour @doth win, sir, For fear that my husband may chance to come in sir, Be quick with the toast of your Lan-go-lee. RORY  Rory O'More courted Kathleen Bawn, He was bold as a hawk, and she soft as the dawn, He wished in his heart pretty Kathleen to please, And he thought the best way to do that was to teaze. Now, Rory, be aisy, sweet Kathleen would cry, Reproof on her lip, but a smile in her eye, With your tricks I don't know, in froth, what I'm about,@@@@ Faith, youv'e teazed till I've put on my cloak inside out Oh ! jewel, says Rory, that same is the way You've thrated my heart for this many a day, And 'tis plased that I am, and why not, to be sure ? For 'tis all for good luck, says bold Rory O'More. Indeed, then, says Kathleen, don't think of the like, For I half gave a promise to smothering Mike, The ground that I walk on he loves, I'll be bound, Faith, says Rory, I'd rather love you than the ground. Now, Rory, I'll cry, if you don't let me go, Sure I dream every night that I am hating you so ! Oh, says Rory, that same I'm delighted to hear, For drames always go by contraries, my dear Oh, jewel, keep draining that same till you die, And bright morning will give dirty night the black lie, And 'tis pleased that I am, and why not, to be sure ? Since 'tis all for good luck, says bold Rory O'More. Arrah, Kathleen, my darlint, you've teazed me enough, And I've thrashed for your sake Dinny Grimes and Jim Duff, And I've made myself, drinking your health, quite a baste, So I think after that I may talk to the praist. Then Rory, the rogue, stole his arm round her neck, So soft and so white, without freckle or speck, And he looked in her eyes that were beaming with light And he kissed her sweet lips@-@don't you think he was right ? Now, Rory, leave off, sir,@-@you hug me no more, That's eight times to-day that you've kiss'd me before, Then there goes for another, says he, to make sure, For there's luck in odd numbers, says Rory O'More. NO
 to La Revue de Paris of July 1834, which con-tains an article on the subject of Robert the Devil by M. A. Pichart and to a criticism on it by M. de Martonne in the sixth volume of the Memoires de la Societé Royale des Antiquaires de France. The romance of King Robert of Sicily, from which copious extracts are to be found in the 2nd vol. of the new edition of Warton's History of English Poetry, and the old English Morality of Robert Cicyl, which was represented at the High Cross in Chester, in 1529, are obviously connected with the hero of the present Romance. Robert of Cicyl and Robert the Devil, says the ingenious editor of Warton, though not identical are clearly members of the same family, and this poetic embodiment of their lives is evidently the offspring of that tortuous opinion so pre-valent in the middle ages, and which time has mellowed into a vulgar adage that '@the greater the sinner the greater the saint.' The subject of the latter was doubt-lessly Robert the first Duke of Normandy, who became an early object of legendary scandal, and the transition to the same line of potentates in Sicily was an  59 Chapter of the Gesta Romanorum, containing the History of the Emperor Jovinian, which has also been made the subject of a French Moralité, printed at Lyons from an ancient copy in 1581, 8@vo. with the title L'Orgueil et presomption de l'Empereur Jovinian, is nearly identical with this romanc
 ANGEL HELP. THIS rare tablet doth include Poverty with Sanctitude. Past midnight this poor Maid hath spun, And yet the work is not half done, Which must supply from earnings scant A feeble bedrid parent's want. Her sleep-charged eyes exemption ask, And holy hands take up the task Unseen the rock and spindle ply, And do her earthly drudgery. Sleep, saintly poor one, sleep, sleep on And, waking, find thy labour's done. Perchance she knows it by her dreams Her eye hath caught the golden gleams, Angelic presence testifying, That round her everywhere are flying Ostents from which she may presume That much of Heaven is in the room. Skirting her own bright hair they run, And to the sunny add more sun. Now on that aged face they fix, Streaming from the crucifix The flesh-clogged spirit disabusing, Death-disarming sleeps infusing, Prelibations, foretastes high, And equal thoughts to live or die. Gardener bright from Eden's bower, Tend with care that lily flower Suggested by a drawing in which is represented a poor female who, having spun past midnight, to maintain a bedridden mother, has fallen asleep from fatigue, and angels are finishing her work. In another part of the chamber, an angel is tending a lily, the emblem of purit
 men that lacke their liberty, must come when they can, not when they would, poore prisoners cannot doe what they desire, and then why should I he so hastie ? Therefore if safely I may lay me down I will beguile vnquiet thoughts with quiet sleepe it is said that Galino breeds no Serpents, nor doth Englands forrests nourish Beares or Lyons, therefore without hurt I hope I may rest awile. Thus leaning faire Mar-garet in a sweet slumber, we will returne to Duke Robert, who had thus plotted his escape from his keepers. Hauing liberty of the King to hawke and hunt, hee determined on a day, as he should follow the chase, to leaue the hounds to the Hart, and the hunters to their hornes, and being busie in their sport, himselfe would flie, which hee performed at that time when hee ap-pointed Margaret to meete him, and so comming to the place, his horse all on a water, and himself in a sweat, finding his Loue asleepe, he awaked her with a kisse, saying, Arise faire Margaret, now comes the time wherein thou shalt be made a Queene and presently setting her on horsebacke, he posted away. Now, when the Keepers saw they had lost his com-pany, and that at the killing of the game, hee was not present, they were among themselues in such a mutiny, that they were ready one to stabbe another. It was thy fault, said one, that hee thus escapt from vs, that hadst more mind of thy pleasure, then of thy prisoner, and by this meanes we are all vndone. The other said as mu
 that whereas before, the town maintained certaine watchmen to keepe their cloth by night, they were hereupon dismissed as a thing needlesse to be done, supposing with themselues, that seeing they should be straight hanged that were found faulty in this point, that no man would be so desperate to enterprise any such act. And indeed the matter being noysed through the whole Country, that they were straight to be hanged that vse such theeuery, it made many lewd liuers to re-straine such theeuery. Neuertheles, there was at that same time liuing, a notable Theefe named Wallis, whom in the north they called Mighty Wallis, in regard of his valour and man-hood This man being most subtile in such kind of knauery, hauing heard of this late priuiledge, and there-withall of the Townes security, said that once he would venture his necke for a packe of Northerne cloth and therefore comming to one or two of his companions, he asked if they would be partners in his adventure, and if quoth he you will herein hazard your bodies, you shall be sharers in all our booties. At length by many perswasions the men consented whereupon late in the night, they got them all into a Farriours shop, and called vp the folkes of the house. What the foule ill wald you haue quoth they at this time of the night ? Wallis answered, saying, Good-fellowes, we would haue you to remoue the shooes of our horses feete, and set them on againe, and for your paines you shall be well pleased. The Smith at leng
 is for some to sing, Time is for some to pray, Time is for some to creepe, That have drunke all the day. Time is to cart a bawd, Time is to whip a whore, Time is to hang a theefe, And time is for much more. Do you tell us copper-nose, when TIME IS, I hope we Schollers know our times, when to drinke drunke, when to kisse our hostes, when to goe on her score, and when to pay it, that time comes seldome. After halfe an houre had passed, the head did speake againe, two words, which were these  respected these words as little as he did the former, and would not wake them, but still scoffed at the brazen head, that it had learned no better words, and have such a tutor as his master and in scorne of it sung this song. TO THE TUNE OF A RICH MERCHANT MAN. Time was when thou a kettle wert fill'd with better matter But Fryer Bacon did thee spoyle, when he thy sides did batter. Time was when conscience dwelled with men of occupation Time was when Lawyers did not thrive, so well by mens vexation. OF 
 LYCIDAS. In this monody the author bewails a learned friend, unfortunately drowned in his passage from Chester on the Irish seas, 1637 and by occasion forfeits the ruin of our corrupted clergy, then in their height. YET once more, O ye laurels, and once more, Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never sere, I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude, And with forced fingers rude Shatter your leaves before the mellowing year. Bitter constraint, and sad occasion dear Compels me to disturb your season due, For Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime, Young Lycidas, and hath not left his peer Who would not sing for Lycidas ? he knew Himself to sing, and build the lofty rhyme. He must not float upon his watery bier Unwept, and welter to the parching wind Without the meed of some melodious tear. Begin then, sisters of the sacred well That from beneath the seat of Jove did spring, Begin, and somewhat loudly sweep the string Hence with denial vain and coy excuse, So may some gentle Muse With lucky words favour my destined urn And, as he passes, turn And bid fair peace be to my sable shroud. For we were nursed upon the self-same hill, Fed the same flock by fountain, shade, and rill. Together both, ere the high lawns appeared Under the opening eye-lids of the morn, ' The five opening lines of Lycidas are to me the most musical in all the known realms of verse.'-@A. C. Swinburne The Fort-nightly Review, Oct., 1867
 duties by the lawn-robed prelate paid And the last words, that dust to dust conveyed ! While speechless o'er thy closing grave we bend, Accept these tears, thou dear departed friend, Oh gone for ever, take this long adieu And sleep in peace, next thy loved Montagu ! To strew fresh laurels let the task be mine, A frequent pilgrim at thy sacred shrine, Mine with true sighs thy absence to bemoan, And grave with faithful epitaphs thy stone. If e'er from me thy loved memorial part, May shame afflict this alienated heart Of thee forgetful if I form a song, My lyre be broken, and untuned my tongue, My grief be doubled, from thy image free, And mirth a torment, unchastised by thee. Oft let me range the gloomy aisles alone Sad luxury@! to vulgar minds unknown Along the walls where speaking marbles show What worthies form the hallowed mould below Proud names, who once the reins of empire held In arms who triumphed, or in arts excelled Chiefs, graced with scars, and prodigal of blood Stern patriots, who for sacred freedom stood Just men, by whom impartial laws were given And saints, who taught, and led the way to heaven. Ne'er to these chambers, where the mighty rest. Since their foundation, came a nobler guest, Nor e'er was to the bowers of bliss conveyed, Afairer spirit, or more welcome shade. In what new region, to the just assigned, What new employments please th' unbodied mind ? A winged Virtue, through th' ethereal sky, From world to world unwearied does he fl
 IV. 1761-1797 . CCXLVII. THE HERMIT. AT the close of the day, when the hamlet is still, And mortals the sweets of forgetfulness prove, When nought but the torrent is heard on the hill, And nought but the nightingale's song in the grove 'Twas thus, by the cave of the mountain afar, While his harp rung symphonious, a hermit began No more with himself or with nature at war, He thought as a sage, though he felt as a man. ' Ah ! why, all abandoned to darkness and woe, Why, lone Philomela, that languishing fall ? For spring shall return, and a lover bestow, And sorrow no longer thy bosom enthral But, if pity inspire thee, renew the sad lay, Mourn, sweetest complainer, man calls thee to mourn O soothe him, whose pleasures like thine pass away Full quickly they pass@-@but they never return. ' Now gliding remote on the verge of the sky, The moon half extinguished her crescent displays But lately I marked, when majestic on high She shone, and the planets were lost in her blaze. Roll on, thou fair orb, and with gladness pursue The path that conducts thee to splendour again But man's faded glory what change shall renew ? Ah fool ! to exult in a glory so vain ! ' 'Tis night, and the landscape is lovely no more I mourn, but, ye woodlands, I mourn not for you For morn is approaching, your charms to restore, Perfumed with fresh fragrance, and glittering with de
 gayly arayed, toke her by the hande and ledde her thorough a passynge foule donge hyll, and there made her fall and fouled her gaye araye, and than he ranne lyghtly awaye shoutynge and laughynge, and ranne unto the brydes kytchen where her dyner was appereyled and caughte a lyuynge catte and caste her in the potte of pouldred befe. The whiche incontynente was tolde to themperoure, where at he and all his lordes laughed, and had grete game there at, and they loued Robert passynge well, for he made moche myrth without harme. How the Seneschall had gadred a grete armye of men of warre of Saresyns, and layde syege to Rome, by cause the emperoure wolde not gyue hym his doughter in maryage. IN the meane season whyle Robert was thus in Rome doynge his penaunce as a forsayd, which dured seuen yeres or there about in the emperoure's courte, the whiche emperour had a fayre doughter, but she was borne domb and neuer spoke, and the emperours senesshal dyuerse tymes had desyred his doughter in maryage of the emperoure, but he wolde neuer graunte hym her, wherfore the senesshall was gretly moued and angry therwith themperoure, for he thoughte he myght haue wonne of hym his empyre by force, and myght, in soo moche the seneschall came upon a tyme with a grete hoost of Sarasyns, and layde syege to the cyte of Rome, wherof the emperour had grete maruay
 them, that at his home returne, hee would by the grace of God visit them. How the Clothiers had prouided a sumptuous feast for the Kings sonnes, Prince William and PrinceRobert, at Gerards Hall shewing also what chance befell Cutbert of Kendall at that same instant. Chap. 5. THE Clothiers departing from the Court in a merry mind, ioyfull of their good successe, each one to other praised and magnified the Kings great wisedome and vertue, commending also his affability and gentle dis-position, so that Hodgekins affirmed on his faith, that hee had rather speake to his Kings Maiestie, then to many Justices of peace. Indeed said Cole he is a most mild and mercifull Prince, and I pray God he may long raigne over vs. Amen said the rest. Then said Cole, My Masters, shall we forget the great courtesie of the Kings sonnes, those sweet and gentle Princes, that still showed us fauour in our suite ? in my opinion, it were reason to gratifie them in some sort, that we may not vtterly bee condemned of ingra-titude, wherefore if you thinke good we will prepare a banquet for them at our Oast Garrats,@who as you know, hath a faire house, and goodly roomes Besides, the man himselfe is a most courageous mind and good be-hauiour, sufficient to entertain a Prince his wife also is a dainty fine Cooke all which considered, I know not a fitter place in London. Tis true, quoth Sutton, and if the rest be content, I am pleased it shall be so. 
 And whan he was twelve moneth olde, he coude speke and go alone better than other chyldrne that were thre yere old@@. And the elder that this chylde Robert waxed, more cursted and there was no man that coude rule hym and whan he founde or coude come by ony chyldrne he smote and bote and cast stones at them, and brake theyr armes and legges and neckes,andscratte out theyr eyen owt of theyr hedes, and therein was all his delyte and pleasure. How all the chyldren with one assente named this chylde Roberte the Deuyll. THIS chylde within fewe yeares grewe maruaylously, and more and more encresed of all, and boldness, and shrewdness, and set by no correccyon, but was euer smyttynge and tastynge, and cursed dedes doynge. And some tyme there gadred togyder all the boyes of the strete to fyghte with him, but whan they se hym they durst not abyde hym, but cryed one to another, Here cometh the wode Robert ! an other many cryed, Here cometh the cursed madde Robert ! and some cryed, Here cometh Robert the Deuyll ! and thus cryenge they voyded all the stretes, for they durst not abyde andlokehym@ in the face, and forthwith the chyl-drnethatknewehym withone assente calledhymRoberte the Deuyll, whiche name he kepte durynge his lyfe, and shal do as longe as the world standeth. Whan this chyld was seuen yere old or there aboute, the duke his fader seynge and consyderynge his wycked condycyon
 moved with all the thunder cracks Of tyrants' threats, or with the surly brow Of Power, that proudly sits on others' crimes, Charged with more crying sins than those he checks. The storms of sad confusion, that may grow Up in the present for the coming times, Appal not him, that hath no side at all But of himself, and knows the worst can fall. And whilst distraught ambition compasses, And is encompassed whilst as craft deceives, And is deceived whilst man doth ransack man, And builds on blood, and rises by distress And the inheritance of desolation leaves To great-expecting hopes he looks thereon As from the shore of peace, with unwet eye, And bears no venture in impiety. Which makes, that whatsoever here befals, You in the region of yourself remain Where no vain breath of the impudent molests, That hath secured within the brazen walls Of a clear conscience, that without all stain Rises in peace, in innocency rests Whilst all that malice from without procures, Shows her own ugly heart, but hurts not yours. And whereas none rejoice more in revenge, Than women use to do yet you well know That wrong is better checked by being contemned Than being pursued leaving to him to avenge, To whom it appertains. Wherein you show How worthily your clearness hath condemned Base Malediction, living in the dark, That at the rays of goodness still doth bar
 I requyre you hertly that ye wyll smyte of my heed. This sayd the lady, for very grete pyte that she had upon hym, for bycause she had gyuen hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon. Robert answerde his moder with an hevy and a pyteous chere, saynge thus O ! dere moder, why sholde I do so, that so moche myschefe have done, and this sholde be the worste dede that euer I dyde but I praye you to shewe me that I desyre to wete of you. Then the duchesse, herynge his hertely desyre, tolde unto hym the cause why he was so vicious and full of myschefe, and how she gaue hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon, herselfe mys-praysynge, sayd thus unto Roberte O ! sonne, I am the moost unfortunate@woman lyuynge, and I knowledge that it is all my faute that ye be soo cursed and wycked a leuer. How Robert the Deuyll toke leue of his moder. ROBERT herynge his moders saynge he fell downe to the erthe into a swone, for very grete sorowe and laye styll a longe whyle, than he remeued agayne and came to hymself and began bytterly to wepe, and complayne, saynge thus. The fendes of hell be with grete dylygence to applye theym to gete and haue my body and soule, but nowe from this tyme forthe, I forsake theym all theyr werke, and wyll neuer do more harme but good, and amende my lyfe and leue my synes and do penaunce therefore, than after this Robert spake to his moder, the whiche was in grete sorowe, and heu
CHAPTER XVIII. THE FUTURE OF THE COLORED RACES. Regrets at Leaving San Fernando.-@The Future of the Cooly and Negro Races.-@The Heirs of the Caribbees.-@The Example of Hayti.-@Are the Colored Races to Re-trograde in their Civilization ?-@Wanted, a Constable. I LEFT San Fernando with a feeling of reluc-tance, amounting almost to discontent, at my lack of better opportunity to pursue my in-vestigations, enlighten my mind, and gratify my curiosity concerning so many things that interested me beyond all I had seen on my cruise. I wished to spend days roaming about the town examining the handicraft of ar-tificers, peeping into door-ways and w@indows, which, like the gates of Dis, stand open night and day, for there are no blinds or sashes, doors or shutters, to be closed, be the weather fair or foul. I desired to observe the life of this race of transported men who preserve, in a foreign land, so many of the peculiari-ties of their nation, and adapt their mode of life so imperfectly to new surroundings, whose mental iner-tia prevent them from readjusting themselves to meet any require-ment of a new order of things. They seem not to abate one jot or tittle of any social, moral, or phys
ROBERT THE DEUYLL. THE French prose romance entitled, La vie du ter-rible Robert le Diable lequel apres fut nom@mé Lomme Dieu, was published in 4to. at Lyons, by P. Mare-schall, in 1496. It was followed by an edition published at Paris, by Nic. de la Barre, in 1497, likewise in 4to., and which is equally scarce with the preceding as also by another edition in 4to. published at Paris, by Jehan Herouf about 1520. It was reprinted in the Bibliotheque Bleue, published at Liege in 12mo. 1787, previous to which it had been printed at Troyes, 8vo. 1715, with the title of La Terrible et me@neilleuse Vie de Robert le Diable lequel apres fut Homme de bien, a copy of which is in the British Museum, and corres-ponds with the present version. There also exists an early French Metrical Version, which was published at Paris for the first time, under the title of La Soman de Robert le Diable en vers du XIIIe Siècle, publié pour la première fois d'@après les Manuscrits de la Bibliothèque du Roi, par G. S. Trebu-tien, Membre de la Societé des Antiquaires de Nor-mandi
 maids sluttishnes, othersome deciphered the cost-lines of their garments, some told many tales of their neighbours and to be briefe, there was none of them but would haue talke for a whole day. But when Crab, Weasell, and Wren saw this, they concluded betwixt themselues, that as oft as any of the women had a good bit of meate on their trenchers, they offering a cleane one, should catch that commodity, and so they did but the women being busie in talke, marked it not, till at the last one found leisure to misse her meat whereupon she said, that their boldness exceeded their diligence. Not so, forsooth, said Weasell, there is an hundred bolder then we. Name me one, said the woman, if you can. A flea is bolder, quoth Crabbe. How will you proue that, said the woman ? Because, quoth he, they will creepe vnder your coates, where we dare not come, and now and then bite you by the buttocks as if they were brawne. But what becomes of them, qd. the woman ? their sweet meat hath sowre sauce, and their lustines doth often cost them their liues, therefore take heed. A good warning of a faire woman, said Wren, but I had not thought so fine a wit in a fat belly. The women seeing their men so merry, said it was a signe there was good ale in the house. Thats as fit for a Churching quoth Weasell, as a cudgell for a curst queane. Thus with pleasant communication and merry quips they droue out the time, till the fruit and spice-cakes were set on the boord At what time one of th
 say, your opinion decerned you though your faire eyes seeme cleare, yet I deemed them vnperfect, if they cast before your mind any shadow or sparke of beautyin me But I rather thinke, because it hath beene an old saying, that women are proud to heare themselues praised, that you either speake this, to driue away the time, or to wring me from my too apparent imperfec-tions. But I humbly intreate pardon, too longe haue I fore-slowed my businesse, and shewne @myselfe ouer-bold in your presence and therewith, with a courtly grace, bending her knees to the courteous Duke, shee went forward to the field, and the Duke to the Towne of Glocester. When he came thither, he made his Keeper great cheare, intreating them they would giue him respit to be awhile with old Gray for we twaine must haue a game or two, quoth he and for my safe returne, I gage to you my princely word, that as I am a true Knight and a Gentleman, I will returne safe to your charge againe. The Keepers being content, the Duke departed, and with old Gray goes to the field, to peruse the Worke-folkes, where while Gray found himselfe busie in many matters, he tooke opportunity to talke with Margaret shee who by his letters before was priuie to his purpose guest beforehand the cause of his comming to whom he spake to this effect Faire Maid, I did long since manifest my loue to thee by my letter tell me therefore, were it not better to be a Duches then drudge ! a Lady of high reputatio
CHAPTER VI. A DAY AT ANTIGUA. West Indian Hospitality.@-@A Sugar Plantation.@-@Sugar-making.-@An Occult Luncheon. -Turtle, and again Turtle.-@The Public Library.@-Historical Notes.@-Under Way for Islands farther South. W E were made welcome at our friend's house in a manner that banished at once all thought that until that day we had been utter strangers to our entertainers, and so, without ceremony or restraint, were soon comfortably settled, some in the drawing-room, some on the veran-da, pleasantly chatting with new-found acquaintances say, rather, kind-hearted friends, who mani-fested a flattering interest in us and in our affairs. Kinder-hearted, more gracious gentle-folk I never met, no matter where my stages may have been, at home or abroad, than the West Indian people. Their hospitality is as genial and sunny as their delightful climate they are generous and very socially inclined, ready to receive all strangers heartily. No matter whether their guest hails from neighboring islands, from England the old land that all British creoles call home , or from foreign countries, they are tireless in their atten-tion to the stranger within their gate
 once, Immanuel's orphaned cry His universe hath shaken@-It went up single, echoless, ' My God, I am forsaken ! ' It went up from the Holy's lips amid His lost creation, That, of the lost, no son should use those words of desolation ! That earth's worst frenzies, marring hope, should mar not hope's fruition, And I, on Cowper's grave, should see his rapture in a vision. -@Mrs. Browning. CCCLXXXIX. THE BEST THING IN THE WORLD. WHAT's the best thing in the world ? June-rose, by May-dew impearled Sweet south-wind, that means no rain Truth, not cruel to a friend Pleasure, not in haste to end Beauty, not self-decked and curled Till its pride is over-plain Light, that never makes you wink Memory, that gives no pain, Love, when, so you're loved again. What's the best thing in the world ? -@Something out of it, I think. -Ib. CCCXC. THE ROCK OF CASHEL. ROYAL and saintly Cashel@! I would gaze Upon the wreck of thy departed powers Not in the dewy light of matin hours, Nor the meridian pomp of summer's blaz
 public buildings in a certain town, which for many reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning, and to which I will assign no fictitious name, tly common to most towns, great or small@ to wit, a workhouse and in this workhouse was born@ on a day and date which I need not t@@rouble myself to repeat, inasmuch as it can be of no possible consequence to the reader, in this stage of the business at all events@ the item of mortality whose name is prefixed to the head of this chapter. For  time after it was ushered into this world of sorrow and trouble, by the parish surgeon, it remained a matter of considerable doubt whether the child would survive to bear any name at all in which case it is somewhat more than probable that these memoirs would never have appeare@d or, if they had, that being comprised within a couple of pages, th@@@@@ey would have possessed the ines@timable merit of being the most concise and faithful specimen of biography, extant in the literature of any age or country. Although I am not disposed to maintain that the being born in a workhouse, is in itself the most for@tunate and enviable circumstance that can pos@sibly befall a human being, I do mean to say that in this particular instance, it was the best thing for Oliver Twist that could by possibi@lity have occurred. The fact is, that there was considerable difficulty in inducing Oliver to take upon himself the office of respiration,--a troublesome practice, but one which custom has rendered necessary to our easy existence@ and for some time he lay gasping on a little flock mattress, rather unequally poised be@tween this world and the next@ the balance being decidedly in favour of the latter. Now, if, during this brief period, Oliver had been surrounded by careful grandmothers, anxious aunts, experienced nurses, and doctors of profound wisdom, he would most inevitably and indubitably have been killed in no time. There being nobody by, however, but a pauper old woman, who was rendered rather misty by an unwonted allowanceof beer@ and a parish sur@geon who did such matters by contract@ Oliver and Nature fought out the point between them. The result was, that, after a few struggles, Oli@ver breathed, sneezed, and proceededto adver@tise to the inmates of the workhouse the fact of a new burden having been imposed upon the parish, by setting up as loud a cry as could reasonably have been expected from a male infant who had not been possessed of that very useful appendage, a voice, for a much longer space of time than three minutes and a quarter. As Oliver gave this first proof of the free and proper action of his lungs, the patch@work coverlet which was carelessly flung over the iron bedstead, rustled the pale face of a young woma@n was raised feebly from the pillow and a faint voice imperfectly articulated the words, 'Let me see the child, and die.' The surgeon had been sitting with his face turned towards the fire@ giving the palms of his hands a warm and a rub alternately@@@. As the young woman spoke, he rose, and advan@cing to the bed's head, said, with more kindness than might have been expected of him 'Oh, you must not talk about dying yet.' 'Lor bless her dear heart, no!' interposed the nurse, hastily depositing in her pocket a green glass bottle, the contents of which she had been tasting in a corner with evident satisfaction. 'Lor bless her dear heart, when she has lived as long as I have, sir, and had thirteen children of her own, and all on 'em dead except two, and them in the wurkus with me, she'll know better than to take on in that way, bless her dear heart! Think what it is to be a mother, there's a dear young lamb@ do.' Apparently this consolatory perspective of a mother's prospects failed in producing its due effect. The patient shook her head, and stretched out her hand towards the child. The surgeon deposited it in her arms. She imprinted her cold white lips passionately on its forehead@ passed her hands over her face@ gazed wildly round@ shuddered@ fell back--and died. They chafed her breast, hands, and tem@ples but the blood had stopped for@ever. They talked of hope and comfort. They had been strangers too long. 'It's all over, Mrs. Thingummy!' said the surgeon at last. 'Ah, poor dear, so it is!' said the nurse, picking up the cork of the green bottle, which had fallen out on the pillow, as she stooped to take up the child. 'Poor dear!' 'You needn't mind sending up to me, if the child cries, nurse,' said the surgeon, putting on his gloves with great deliberation. 'It@'s very likely it _will_ be troublesome. Give it a little gruel if it is.' He put on his hat, and, pausing by the bed-side on his way to the door, added, 'She was a good-looking girl, too where did she co@me from?' 'She was brought here last night,' replied the old woman, 'by the overseer's order. She was found lying in the street. She had walked some distance, for her shoes were worn to pieces but where she came from, or where she was going to, nobody knows.' The surgeon leaned over the body, and raised the left hand. 'The old story,' he said, shaking his head 'no wedding-ring, I see. Ah! Good-night!' The medical gentleman walked away to din@ner and the nurse, having once more applied herself to the green bottle, sat down on a low chair before the fire, and proceeded to dress the infant.@@@@ What an excellent example of the power of dress, young Oliver Twist was! Wrapped in the blanket which had hitherto formed his only covering, he might have been the child of a nobleman or a beggar @it would have been hard for the haughtiest stranger to have  station in society. But now that he was en@@veloped in the old calico robes@ which had grown yellow in the same service, he was badged and ticketed, and fell into his place at once--a parish child--the orphan of a workhouse--the humble, half-starved drudge--to be cuffed and buffeted through the world--despised by all, and pitied by none. Oliver cried lustily. If he could have known that he was an orphan, left to the tender mer@cies of church-wardens and overseers, perhaps he would have cried the louder.  For the next eight or ten months, Oliver was the victim of a systematic course of trea@chery and deception. He was brought up by hand. The hungry and destitute situation of the infant orphan was duly reported by the workhouse authorities to the parish authorities. The parish authorities inquired with dignity of the workhouse authorities, whether there was no female then domiciled in 'the house' who was in a situation to impart to Oliver Twist, the consolation and nourishment of which he stood in need. The workhouse authorities replied with humility, that there was not. Upon this, the parish authorities magnanimously and hu@manely resolved, that Oliver should be 'farm@ed,' or, in other words, that he should be d@ispatched to a branch-workhouse some three miles off, where twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor-laws, rolled about the floor all day, without the inconvenience of too much food or too much clothing, under the pa@rental superintendence of an elderly female, who received the culprits at and for the considera@tion of sevenpence-halfpenny per small head per week. Sevenpence-halfpenny's worth per week is a good round diet for a child a great deal may be got for sevenpence-halfpenny, quite enough to overload its stomach, and make it uncomfortable. The elderly female was a woman of wisdom and experience she knew what was good for children@ and she had a very accurate perception of what was good for herself. So, she appropriated the greater part o@f the weekly stipend to her own use, and consigned the rising parochial generation to even a shorter allowance than was originally provided for them. Thereby finding in the lowest depth a deeper still@ and proving her@@self a very great experimental philosopher. @@@@@Everybody knows the story of another ex@perimental philosopher@ who had a great theory about a horse being able to live without eating, and who demonstrated it so well, that he had got his own horse down to a straw a day, and would @@@@@unquestionably have rendered him a very spirited and rampacious animal @@on nothing at all, if he had not died,died, four-and-twenty hours before he was to have had his first comfortable bait of air. Unfortunately for, the experimental philosophy of the female to whose protecting care Oliver Twist was delivered over, a similar result usually attend@ed the operation of _her_ system for at the very moment when the child had contrived to exist upon the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food, it did perversely happen in eight and a half cases out of ten, either that it sickened from want and cold, or fell into the fire from neglect, or got half-smothered by accident in any one of which cases, the miserable little being was usually summoned into another world, and there gathered to the fathers @@i@@@@t had never known in this. Occasionally, when there was some more than usually interesting inquest upon a parish child who had been overlooked in turning up a bedstead, or inadvertently scalded to death when there happened to be a washing--though the latter accident was very scarce, anything approaching to a washing being of rare occur@rence in the farm--the jury would take it into their heads to ask troublesome questions, or the parishioners would rebelliously affix their signatures to a remonstrance. But these impertinences were speedily checked by the evidence of the surgeon, and the testimony of the beadle the former of whom had a@@@lways opened the body and found nothing in@side which was very probable indeed , and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted@ which was@ very self-devo@tional. Besides, the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm, and always sent the beadle the day before, to say they were going. The children were neat and clean to behold, when _they_ went and what more would the people have@! It cannot be expected that this system of farming would produce any very extraordi@nary or luxuriant crop. Oliver Twist's ninth birth@day found him a pale thin child, some@what diminutive in stature, and decidedly small in circumference. But nature or inheritance had implanted a good sturdy spirit in Oliver's breast. It had had plenty of room to expand, thanks to the spare diet of the establishment and perhaps to this circumstance may be attri@@buted his having any ninth birth-day at all. Be this as it may, however, it was his ninth birth@day and he was keeping it in the coal-cellar with a select party of two other young gentleman, who, after participating with him in a sound thrashing, had been locked up@@@@@@@@ for atrociously presuming to be hun@gry, when Mrs. Mann, the good lady of the house, was unexpectedly startled by the appa@rition of Mr. Bumble, the beadle, striving to undo the wicket of the garden-gate. 'Goodness gracious! Is that you, Mr. Bum@ble, sir?' said Mrs. Mann, thrusting her head out of the window in well-affected ecstasies of joy. Susan, take Oliver and them two brats up@stairs, and wash 'em directly. --My heart alive! Mr. Bumble, how glad I am to see you, sure-ly!' Now, Mr. Bumble was a fat man, and a choleric @@@@so, instead of responding to this open-hearted salutation in a kindred spirit, he gave the little wicket a tremendous shake, and then bestowed upon it a kick which could have emanated from no leg but a beadle's. 'Lor, only think,' said Mrs. Mann, run@ning out,--for the three boys had been removed by this time,--'only think of that@! That I should have forgotten that the gate was bolted on the inside, on account of them dear chil@dren! Walk in@ sir walk in, pray, Mr. Bumble, do, sir.' Although this invitation was accompanied with a curtsey that might have softened the heart of a church-warden, it by no means mollified the beadle. 'Do you think this respectful or proper conduct, Mrs. Mann,' inquired Mr. Bumble, grasping his cane, 'to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden-gate, when they co@me here upon porochial businessbusine@@ss with the porochial orphans@? Are you aweer, Mrs. Mann, that you are, as I may say, a porochial delegate, and a stipendiary?' 'I'm sure@ Mr. Bumble, that I was only a telling one or two of the dear children as is so fond of you, that it was you a coming,' replied Mrs. Mann with great humility. Mr. Bumble had a great idea of his orato@rical powers and his importance. He had dis@played the one, and vindicated the other. He relaxed. 'Well, well, Mrs. Mann,' he replied in a calmer tone 'it may be as you say it may may be. Lead the way in, Mrs. Mann, for I come on business, and have @@@@something to say.' Mrs. Mann ushered the beadle into a small parlour with a brick floor placed a seat for him@ and officiously deposited his cocked hat and cane on the table before him. Mr. Bum@ble wiped from his forehead the perspiration which his walk had engendered, glanced com@placently at the cocked hat, and smiled. Yes, he smiled. Beadles are but men@ and Mr. Bum@ble smiled. 'Now don't you be offended at what I'm a going to say,' observed Mrs. Mann, with captivating sweetness. 'You've had a long walk, you know, or I wouldn't mention it. Now, will you take a little drop of somethink, Mr. Bumble?' 'Not a drop. Nor a drop,' said Mr. Bumble, waving his right hand in a dignified, bu@@@t@@@ placid manner. 'I think you will,' said Mrs. Mann, who had noticed the tone of the refusal, and the gesture that had accompanied it. 'Just a leetle drop, with a little cold water, and a lump of sugar.' Mr. Bumble coughed. 'Now, just a leetle drop,' said Mrs. Mann persuasively. 'What is it?' inquired the beadle. 'Why, it's what I'm obliged to keep a little of in the house, to put into the blessed infants' Daffy, when they ain't well, Mr. Bumble,' replied Mrs. Mann as she opened a corner cupboard, and took down a bottle and glass.  you give the children Daffy, Mrs. Mann?' inquired Bumble, following with his eyes the interesting process of mixing. @'Ah, bless 'em, that I do, dear as it is,' replied the nurse. @'I couldn't see 'em suffer before my very eyes, you know@ sir.' 'No' said Mr. Bumble approvingly @'no, you could not. You are a humane woman, Mrs. Mann.' Here she set down the glass. 'I shall take a@ early opportunity of men@tioning it to the board, Mrs. Mann.' He drew it towards him. @'You feel as a mother, Mrs. Mann.' He stirred the gin-and-water. 'I--I drink your health with cheerfulness, Mrs. Mann' and he swallowed half of it. @'And now about business,' said the beadle, taking out a leathern pocket-book. 'The child that was half-baptized Oliver Twist, is nine year old to-day.' 'Bless him!' interposed Mrs. Mann, in@flaming her left eye with the corner of her apron. 'And notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound, which was afterwards increased to twenty pound. Notwithstanding the most superlative, and, I may say, supernat'ral exer@tions on the part of this parish,' said Bumble, 'we have never been able to discover who is his father, or what was his mother's settle@ment, name, or con--dition.' Mrs. Mann raised her hands in astoni@shment but added, after a moment's reflection, 'How comes he to have any name at all, then?' The beadle drew himself up with great pride, and said, 'I inwented it.' 'You, Mr. Bumble!' 'I, Mrs. Mann. We name our fo@ndlings in alphabetical order. The last was a S,--Swubble, I named him. This was a T,--Twist, I named _him_. The next one@@@ comes will be Unwin, and the next Vilkins. I have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, when we co@me to Z.' 'Why, you're quite a literary character, sir!' said Mrs. Mann. 'Well, well,' said the beadle, evidently gratified with the compliment 'perhaps I may be. Perhaps I may be, Mrs. Mann.' He finished the gin-and-water, and added, 'Oliver being now too old to remain here, the board have determined to have him back into the house@@@@. I have come out myself to take him there. So let me see him at once.' 'I'll fetch him directly,' said Mrs. Mann, leaving the room for that purpose.@@@@ Oliver, having had by this time@@@@ as much of the outer coat of dirt@ which encrusted his face and hands, removed, as could be scrubbed off in one washing, was led into the room by his benevolent protectress. 'Make a bow to the gentleman, Oliver,' said Mrs. Mann. Oliver made a bow, which was divided be@tween the beadle on the chair, and the cocked hat on the table. 'Will you go along with me, Oliver?' said Mr. Bumble, in a majestic voice. Oliver was about to say that he would go along with anybody with great readiness, when, glancing upward@, he caught sight of Mrs. Mann, who had got behind the beadle's chair, and was shaking her fist at him with a furious countenance. He took the hint at once, for the fist had been too often impressed upon his body not to be deeply impressed upon his re@collection. 'Will she go with me?' inquired poor Oliver. 'No, she can't,' replied Mr. Bumble. 'But she'll come and see you sometimes.' This was no very great consolation to the child@@@@. Young as he was,  sense enough to make a feint of feeling great regret at going away. It was no very difficult mat@ter for the boy to ca@@@@ll tears into his eyes. Hunger and recent ill-usage are great assistants if you want to cry and Oliver cried very naturally indeed. Mrs. Mann gave him a thou@sand embraces, and@ what Oliver wanted a great deal more, a piece of bread and butter, less he should seem too hungry when he got to the workhouse. With the slice of bread in his hand, and the little brown-cloth parish cap @@on his head, Oliver was then led away by Mr. Bumble from the wretched home where one kind word or look had never lighted the gloom of his infant years. And yet he burst into an agony of childish grief, as the cottage-gate closed after him. Wretched as were the little companions in misery he was leaving behind, they were the only friends he had ever known and a sense of his loneliness in the great wide world, sank into the child's heart for the first time. Mr. Bumble walked on with long strides@ @@@@little Oliver, firmly grasping his gold-laced cuff, trotted beside him, inquiring at the end of every quarter of a mile whether they were 'nearly there.' To these interrogations Mr. Bumble returned very brief and snappish re@@@plies for the temporary blandness which gin-and-water awakens in some bosoms had by this time evaporated@ and he was once again a beadle. Oliver had not@ been within the walls of the workhouse a quarter of an hour, and had scarcely completed the demolition of a second slice of bread, when Mr. Bumble, who had handed him over to the care of an old woman, returned@ and, telling him it was a board night, informed him that the board had said he was to appear before it forthwith. Not having a very clearly defined notion of what a live board was, Oliver was rather a@stounded by this intelligence, and was not quite certain whether he ought to laugh or cry. He had no time to think about the matter, how@ever for Mr. Bumble gave him a tap on the head, with his cane, to wake him up@ and another on the back to make him lively@ and bidding him to follow, conducted him into a large white-washed room, where eight or ten fat gentlemen were sitting round a table. At the top of the table, seated in an arm-chair rather higher than the rest, was a particularly fat gentleman with a very round, red face. 'Bow to the board,' said Bumble. Oliver brushed away two or three tears that were lingering in his eyes@ and seeing no board but the table, fortunately bowed to that. 'What's your name, boy?' said the gen@tleman in the high chair. Oliver was frightened at the sight of so many gentlemen, which made him tremble and the beadle gave him another tap behind, which made him cry@@@. These two causes made him answer in a very low and hesitating voice whereupon a gentleman in a white waistcoat said he was a fool. Which was a capital way of raising his spirits, and putting him quite at his ease. 'Boy,' said the gentleman in the high chair, 'listen to me. You know you're an orphan, I suppose?' 'What's that, sir?' inquired poor Oliver. 'The boy _is_ a fool--I thought he was,' said the gentleman in the white  said the gentleman who had spoken first. 'You know you@'ve got no father or mother, and that you were brought up by the parish, don't you?' 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver, weeping bitterly. 'What are you crying for?' inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat. And to be sure it was very extraordinary. What _could_ the boy be crying for@? 'I hope you say your prayers every night,' said another gentleman in a gruff voice 'and pray for the people who feed you, and take care of you--like a Christian.' 'Yes, sir,' stammered the boy. The gen@tleman who spoke last was unconsciously right. It would have been very like a Christian, and a marvellously good Christian@ too, if Oliver had prayed for the people who fed and took care of _him_. But he hadn't, because nobody had taught him. 'Well! You have co@me here to be educated, and taught a useful trade,' said the red-faced gentleman in the high chair. 'So you'll begin to pick oakum to-morrow morning at six o'clock,' added the surly one in the white waistcoat. For the combination of both these blessings @in the one simple process of picking oakum, Oliver bowed low by the direction of the beadle, and was then hurried away to a large ward@ where, on a rough, hard bed, he sobbed himself to sleep. What a novel illustration of the tender laws  let the paupers go to sleep@! Poor Oliver! He little thought, as he lay sleeping in happy unconsciousness of all around him, that the board had that very day arrived at a decision which would exercise the most material influence over all his future fortunes. But they had. And this was it The members of this board were very sage, deep, philosophical men and when they came to turn their attention to the workhouse, they found out at once, what ordinary folks would never have discovered--the poor people liked it! It was a regular place of public enter@tainment@ for the poorer classes a tavern where there was nothing to pay a public breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper all the year round a brick and mortar elysium, where it was all play and no work. 'Oho!' said the board, looking very knowing 'we are the fellows to set this to rights we'll stop it all, in no time.' So, they established the rule, that all poor people should have the alternative for they would compel nobody, not they, of being starved by a gradual process in the house, or by a quick one out of it. With this view, they contracted with the water-works to lay on an unlimited supply of water@ and with a corn-factor to supply periodically small quantities of oatmeal and issued three meals of thin gruel a day, with an onion twice a week, and half a roll on Sundays. They made a great many other wise and  regulations, having reference to the ladies, which it is not necessary to repeat kindly undertook to divorce poor married people, in consequence of the great expense of a suit in Doctors' Commons and, instead of compelling a man to support his family, as they had theretofore done, took his family away from him, and made him a bachelor! There is no @saying how many applicants for relief, under these last two  started up in all classes of society, if it had not been coupled with the workhouse@ but the board were long-headed men, and @h@@@@ad provided for this difficulty. The relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel@ and that frightened @@@@people. For the first six months after Oliver Twist was removed, the system was in full operation. It was rather expensive at first, in consequence of the increase in the undertaker's bill, and the necessity of taking in the clothes of all the paupers, which fluttered loosely on their wasted, shrunken forms, after a week or two's gruel. But the number of workhouse inmates got thin as well as the paupers@ and the board were in ecstasies. The room in which the boys were fed, was a large stone hall, with a copper at one end@ out of which the master, dressed in an apron for the purpose, and assisted by one or two women, ladled the gruel at meal@times.  each boy had one porringer, and no more--except @ he had two ounces and a quarter of bread besides. The bowls never wanted washing. The boys polished them with their spoons till they shone again and when they had per@formed this operation@ which never took very long, the spoons being nearly as large as the bowls , they would@ sit staring at the copper, with such eager eyes, as if they could have devoured the very bricks of which it was composed employing themselves, meanwhile, in sucking their fingers most assiduously, with the view of catching up any stray splashes of gruel that might have been cast thereon. Boys have generally excellent appetites. Oliver Twist and@@@@@ his companions suffered the tortures of slow starvation for three months at last they got so voracious and wild with hunger, that one boy, who was tall for his age, and hadn't been used to that sort of thing@ for his father had kept a small cook@@-shop , hinted darkly to his companions, that unless he had another basin of gruel per diem, he was afraid he @might some night  the boy who slept next him, who happened to be a weakly youth of tender age. He had a wild, hungry eye@ and they implicitly believed him. A council was held lots were cast who should walk up to the mas@ter after supper that evening, and ask for more and it fell to Oliver Twist. The evening arrived the boys took their places. The master, in his cook's uniform, sta@tioned himself at the copper his pauper assist@ants ranged themselves behind him the gruel was served out@ and a long grace was said over the short commons. The gruel disappeare@@@@@d the boys whispered each other, and winked at Oliver@ while his next neighbo@rs nudged him. Child as he was, he was desperate with h@unger, and reckless with misery. He rose from the table and  and spoon in  somewhat alarmed at his own temerity 'Please, sir, I want some more.' The master was a fat, healthy man@ but he turned very pale. He gazed in stupefied asto@nishment on the small rebel for some seconds, and then clung for support to the copper. The assistants were paralysed with wonder@ @@@@the boys with fear. 'What!' said the master at length, in a faint voice. 'Please, sir,' replied Oliver, 'I want some more.' The master aimed a blow at Oliver's head with the ladle@ pinioned him in his a@@rm and shrieked aloud for the beadle. The board were sitting in solemn conclave, when Mr. Bumble rushed into the room in great excitement, and addressing the gentleman in the high chair, said, 'Mr. Limbkins, I beg your pardon, sir! Oliver Twist has asked for more!' There was a general start. Horror was depicted on every countenance. 'For _more_!' said Mr. Limbkins. 'Com@pose yourself, Bumble, and answer me distinct@ly. Do I understand that he asked for more, after he had eaten the supper allotted by the dietary?' 'He did, sir,' replied Bumble. 'That boy will be hung,' said the gentle@man in the white waistcoat. 'I know that boy will be hung.' Nobody controverted the prophetic gentle@man's opinion. An animated discussion took place. Oliver was ordered into instant confine@ment and a bill was next morning pasted on the outside of the gate, offering a reward of five pounds to anybody who would take Oliver Twist off the hands of the parish. In other words, five pounds and Oliver Twist were offered to any man or woman who wanted an apprentice to any trade, business, or calling. 'I never was more convinced of anything in my life,' said the gentleman in the white waist@coat, as he knocked at the gate and read the bill next morning 'I never was more con@vinced of anything in my life, than I am that that boy will co@me to be hung.' As I purpose to show in the sequel whether the white waistcoated gentleman was right or not, I should perhaps mar the interest of this narrative supposing it to possess any at all , if I ventured to hint just yet, whether the life of Oliver Twist had this violent termination or no.  a week after the commission of the im@pious and profane offence of asking for more, Oliver remained a close prisoner in the dark and solitary room to which he had been consigned by the wisdom and mercy of the board. It appears, at first sight@ not unreasonable to sup@pose, that, if he had entertained a becoming feeling of respect for the prediction of the gen@tleman in the white waistcoat, he would have established that sage individual's prophetic cha@racter, once and for ever, by tying one end of his pocket-handkerchief to a hook in the wall, and attaching himself to the other. To the performance of this feat, however, there was one obstacl@e namely, that pocket-handkerchiefs being decided articles of luxury, had been, for all future times and ages, removed from the noses of paupers by the express order of the board, in council assembled@ solemnly given and pronounced under their hands and seals. There was a still greater obstacle in Oliver's youth and childishness. He only cried bitterly all day and, when the long, dismal night came on,@@@ spread his little hands before his eyes to shut out the darkness, and crouching in the corner, tried to sleep ever and anon waking with a start and tremble, and drawing hi@mself closer and closer to the wall, as if to feel even its cold hard surface were a protection in the gloom and loneliness which surrounded him. Let it not be supposed by the enemies of 'the system,' that, during the period of his solitary incarceration, Oliver was denied the benefit of exercise, the pleasure of society, or the advantages of religious consolation. As for exercise, it was nice cold weather, and he was allowed to perform his ablutions every morning under the pump, in a stone yard, in the presence of Mr. Bumble, who prevented his@@@@ catching cold, and caused a tingling sensation to pervade his frame, by repeated applications of the cane. As for society, he was carried every other day into the hall where the boys dined, and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example. And so for from being denied the advantages of religious consolation, he was kicked into the same apartment every evening at prayer-time, and there permitted to listen to, and console his mind with, a general supplica@tion of the boys, containing a special clause, therein inserted by authority of the board, in which they entreated to be made good, vir@tuous, contented, and obedient, and to be guard@ed from the sins and vices of Oliver Twist@ whom the supplication distinctly set forth to be under the exclusive patronage and protection of the powers of wickedness, and an article direct from the manufactory of the very Devil himself. It chanced one morning, while Oliver's af@fairs were in this auspicious and comfortable state, that Mr. Gamfield,  his way @down the High Street, deeply cogitating in his mind his ways and means of paying certain arrears of rent, for which his landlord had become rather pressing. Mr. Gamfield's most sanguine  could not raise them within full five pounds of the desired amount and, in a species of ar@thimetical desperation, he was alternately cudgel@ling his brains and his donkey, when@ passing the workhouse, his eyes encountered the bill on the gate. 'Wo--o!' said Mr. Gamfield to the donkey. The donkey was in a state of profound ab@straction@ wondering, probably, whether he was destined to be regaled with a cabbage-stalk or two@ when he had disposed of the two sacks of soot with which the little cart was laden so, without noticing the word of com@mand, he jogged onward@. Mr. Gamfield growled a fierce imprecation on the donkey generally, but more particularly on his eyes and, running after him, bestowed a blow on his head, which would inevitably have beaten in any skull but a donkey's. Then, catching hold of the bridle, he gave his jaw a sharp wrench, by way of gentle reminder that he was not his own master and@@@@@@@@ by these means turned him round. He then gave him another blow on the head, just to stun him till he came back agai@@@n.  up to the gate, to read the bill. The gentleman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with his hands behind him, after having delivered himself of some profound sentiments in the board-room. Having wit@nessed the little dispute between Mr. Gamfield and the donkey, he smiled joyously when that person came up to read the bill, for he saw at once that Mr. Gamfield was exactly the sort of master Oliver Twist wanted. Mr. Gam@field smiled, too, as he perused the document@ for five pounds was just the sum he had been wishing for and, as to the boy with which it was encumbered, Mr. Gamfield, knowing what the dietary of the workhouse was, well knew he would be a nice small pattern, just the very thing for register stoves. So, he spelt the bill through again, from beginning to end@ and then, touching his fur cap in token of humility, accosted the gentleman in the white waistcoat. 'This here boy, sir, wot the parish wants to 'prentis,' said Mr. Gamfield. 'Ay, my man,' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat, with a condescending smile. 'What of him?' 'If the parish vould like him to learn a right pleasant trade, in a good 'spectable chim@bley-sweepin' bisness,' said Mr. Gamfield, 'I wants a 'prentis, and I am ready to take him.' 'Walk in,' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat. Mr. Gamfield having lingered be@hind, to give the donkey another blow on the head, and another wrench of the jaw, as a cau@tion not to run away in his absence, followed the gentleman with the white waistcoat into the room where Oliver had first seen him. 'It's a nasty trade,' said Mr. Limbkins, when Gamfield had again stated his wish. 'Young boys have been smothered in chim@neys before now,' said another gentleman. 'That's acause they damped the straw afore they lit it in the chimbley to make 'em co@me down again,' said Gamfield 'that's all smoke, and no blaze vereas smoke ain't o' no use at all in making a boy come down, for it only sinds him to sleep, and that's wot he likes. Boys is wery obstinit, and wery lazy, Gen'l'men, and there's nothink like a good hot blaze to make 'em come down vith a run. It's humane too, gen'l'men, acause, even if they've stuck in the chimbley, roasting their feet makes 'em strug@gle to hextricate theirselves.' The gentleman in the white waistcoat ap@peared very much amused by this explanation but his mirth was speedily checked by a look from Mr. Limbkins. The board then proceed@ed to converse among themselves for a few minutes, but in so low a tone, that the words 'saving of expenditure,' 'looked well in the accounts,' 'have a printed report published,' were alone audible@@@. These only chanced to be  account of their being very fre@quently repeated with great emphasis. At length the whispering ceased@ and the members of the board, having resumed their seats and their solemnity, Mr. Limbkins said 'We have considered your proposition, and we don't approve of it.' 'Not at all,' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat. 'Decidedly not,' added the other members. As Mr. Gamfield did happen to labour under the slight imputation of having bruised three or four boys to death already, it occurred to him that the board had, perhaps, in some un@accountable freak, taken it into their heads that this extraneous circumstance ought to influence their proceedings. It was very unlike their general mode of doing business, if they had but still, as he had no particular wish to revive the rumour, he twisted his cap in his hands, and walked slowly from the table. 'So you won't let me have him, gen'l'men?' said Mr. Gamfield, pausing near the door. 'No,' replied Mr. Limbkins 'at least, as it's a nasty business, we think you ought@ to take something less than the premium we offered.' Mr. Gamfield's countenance brightened, as, with a quick step, he returned to the table, and said, 'What'll you give, gen'l'men@? Come! Don't be too hard on a poor man. What'll you give?' 'I should say, three pound ten was plenty,' said Mr. Limbkins. @'Ten shillings too much,' said the gentle@man in the white waistcoat. 'Come!' said Gamfield 'say four pound, gen'l'men. Say four pound, and you've got rid of him for good and all. There!' 'Three pound ten,' repeated Mr. Limb@kins, firmly. 'Co@me! I'll split the diff'erence, gen'l'men,' urged Gamfield. 'Three pound fifteen.' 'Not a farthing more,' was the firm reply of Mr. Limbkins. 'You're desperate hard upon me, gen'l'men,' said Gamfield, wavering. 'Pooh! pooh@! nonsense!' said the gentle@man in the white waistcoat. 'He'd be cheap with nothing at all, as a premium. Take him, you silly fellow! He's just the boy for you. He wants the stick, now and then it'll do him good and his board needn't co@me very expen@sive, for he hasn't been overfed since he was born. Ha! ha! ha!' Mr. Gamfield gave an arch look at the faces round the table, and, observing a smile on all of them, gradually broke into a smile himself. The bargain was made@@@@. Mr. Bumble, was at once instructed that Oliver Twist and his indentures were to be conveyed before the ma@@gistrate, for signature and approval, that very afternoon. In pursuance of this determination, little Oliver, to his excessive astonishment, was re@leased from bondage, and ordered to put him@self into a clean shirt. He had hardly achieved this very unusual gymnastic performance, when Mr. Bumble brought him, with his own hands, a basin of gruel, and the holiday allowance of two ounces and a quarter of bread.  Oliver began to cry very piteously@ thinking, not unnaturally, that the board must@ have determined to kill him for some useful purpose, or they never would have begun to fatten him up in that way. 'Don't make your eyes red, Oliver, but eat your food and be thankful,' said Mr. Bumble, in a tone of impressive pomposity. 'You're a going to be made a 'prentice of, Oliver.' 'A @prentice, sir!' said the child, trembling. 'Yes, Oliver,' said Mr. Bumble. 'The kind and blessed gentleman which is so many parents to you, Oliver, when you have none of your own@ are a going to 'prentice' you@ and to set you up in life, and make a man of you@ although the expense to the parish is three pound ten!--three pound ten, Oliver!--seventy shillin@s@--one hundred and forty sixpences@!--and all for a naughty orphan which nobody can't love.' As Mr. Bumble paused to take breath, after delivering this address in an awful voice, the tears rolled down the poor child's face, and he sobbed bitterly. 'Co@me,' said Mr. Bumble, somewhat less pompously, for it was gratifying to his feelings to observe the effect his eloquence had pro@duced 'Co@me, Oliver! Wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket, and don't cry into your gruel that's a very foolish action, Oliver.' It certainly was, for there was quite enough water in it already. On their way to the magistrate@, Mr. Bum@ble instructed Oliver that all he would have to do, would be to look very happy, and say, when the gentleman asked him if he wanted to be apprenticed, that he should like it very @much indeed both of which injunctions Oliver promised to obey@ the rather as Mr. Bumble threw in a gentle hint, that if he failed in either particular, there was no telling what would be done to him. When they arrived at the office, he was shut up in a little room by himself, and admonished by Mr. Bumble to stay there, until he came back to fetch him. There the boy remained, with a palpitating heart, for half an hour. At the expiration of which time Mr. Bumble thrust in his head, unadorned with the cocked hat, and said aloud 'Now, Oliver, my dear, come to the gen@tleman.' As Mr. Bumble said this, he put on a grim and threatening look, and added, in a low voice, 'Mind what I told you, you young rascal!' Oliver stared innocently in Mr. Bumble's face at this somewhat contradictory style of address but that gentleman prevented his offering any remark thereupon, by leading him at once into an adjoining room@ the door of which was open. It was a large room, with a great window@@@. Behind a desk, sat two old gentleman with powdered heads@ one of whom was reading the newspaper@ while the other was perusing, with the aid of a pair of tortoise-shell spectacles, a small piece of parchment@ which lay before him. Mr. Limbkins was standing in front of the desk on one side@ and Mr. Gamfield, with a partially washed face, on the other@ while two or three bluff-looking men, in top-boots, were lounging about. The old gentleman with the spectacles gra@dually dozed off, over the little bit of parch@ment@ and there was a short pause, after Oliver had been stationed by Mr. Bumble in front of the desk. 'This is the boy, your worship,' said Mr. Bumble. The old gentleman who was reading the newspaper raised his head for a moment, and pulled the other old gentleman by the sleeve@ whereupon, the last-mentioned old gentleman woke up. 'Oh, is this the boy?' said the old gentle@man. 'This is him, sir,' replied Mr. Bumble. 'Bow to the magistrate, my dear.' Oliver roused himself, and made his best obeisance. He had been wondering, with his eyes fixed on the magistrates' powder, whether all boards were born with that white stuff on their heads, and were boards from thenceforth on that account. 'Well,' said the old gentleman, 'I suppose he@'s fond of chimney-sweeping?' 'He doats on it, your worship,' replied Bumble@ giving Oliver a sly pinch, to intimate that he had better not say he didn't.  sweep, will he?' inquired the old gentleman. 'If we was to bind him to any other trade to-morrow, he'd run away simultaneous@@, your worship,' replied Bumble. 'And this man that's to be his master--you, sir--you'll treat him well, and feed him, and do all that sort of thing, will you?' said the old gentleman. 'When I says I will, I means I will,' re@plied Mr. Gamfield doggedly. 'You're a rough speaker, my friend, but you look an honest, open-hearted man,' said the old gentleman@ turning his spectacles in the direction of the candidate for Oliver's premium, whose villainous countenance was a regular stamped receipt for cruelty. But the magis@trate was half blind and half childish, so he couldn't reasonably be expected to discern what other people did. 'I hope I am, sir,' said Mr. Gamfield, with an ugly leer. 'I have no doubt you are, my friend,' re@plied the old gentleman@ fixing his spectacles more firmly on his nose, and looking about him for the inkstand. It was the critical moment of Oliver's fate. If the inkstand had been where the old gentle@man thought it was, he would have dipped his pen into it, and signed the indentures, and Oli@ver would have been straightway hurried off. But, as it chanced to be immediately under his nose, it followed, as a matter of course, that he looked all over his desk for it, without finding it and happening in the course of his search to look straight before him, his gaze encoun@tered the pale and terrified face of Oliver Twist@ who, despite all the admonitory looks and pinches of Bumble, was regarding the @@r@@@e@pulsive countenance of his future master, with a mingled expression of horror and fear, too palpable to be mistaken, even by a half-blind magistrate. The old gentleman stopped, laid down his pen, and looked from Oliver to Mr. Limbkins@ who attempted to take snuff with a cheerful and unconcerned aspect. 'My boy!' said the old gentleman,  boy!' said the old gentleman, 'you look pale and alarmed. What is the matter?' 'Stand a little away from him, Beadle,' said the other magistrate@ laying aside the paper, and leaning forward with an expression of inte@rest. 'Now, boy, tell us what's the matter don't be afraid.' Oliver fell on his knees, and clasping his hands together, prayed that they would order him back to the dark room--that they would starve him--beat him--kill him if they pleased--rather than send him away with that dread@ful man. 'Well!' said Mr. Bumble, raising his hands and@ eyes with most impressive solemnity. 'Well! of all the artful and designing orphans that ever I see, Oliver, you are one of the most bare-facedest.' 'Hold your tongue, Beadle,' said the second old gentleman, when Mr. Bumble had given vent to this compound adjective. 'I beg your worship's pardon,' said Mr. Bumble, incredulous@@ @of having heard aright. 'Did your worship speak to me?' 'Yes. Hold your tongue.' Mr. Bumble was stupefied with astonish@ment. A beadle ordered to hold his tongue! A moral revolution! The old gentleman in the tortoise-shell spec@tacles looked at his companion, he nodded sig@nificantly. 'We refuse to sanction these indentures,' said the old gentleman@ tossing aside the piece of parchment as he spoke. 'I hope,' stammered Mr. Limbkins 'I hope the magistrates will not form the opinion that the authorities have been guilty of any improper conduct, on the unsupported testi@mony of a @@@@@child.' 'The magistrates are not called upon to pro@nounce any opinion on the matter,' said the second old gentleman sharply. 'Take the boy back to the workhouse, and treat him kindly. He seems to want it.' That same evening, the gentleman in the white waistcoat most positively and decidedly affirmed, not only that Oliver would be hung, but that he would be drawn and quartered into the bargain. Mr. Bumble shook his head with gloomy mystery, and said he wished he might co@me to good whereunto Mr. Gamfield replied, that he wished he might come to  which, although he agreed with the beadle in most matters, would seem to be a wish of a totally opposite description. The next morning, the public were once @@@@@informed that Oliver Twist was@ again To Let, and that five pounds would be paid to anybody who would take possession of him.  great families, when an advantageous place cannot be obtained, either in possession, reversion, remainder, or expectancy, for the young man who is growing up, it is a very general custom to send him to sea. The board, in imitation of so wise and salutary an exam@ple, took counsel together on the expediency of shipping off Oliver Twist, in some small trading vessel bound to a good unhealthy port. Thi@s suggested itself as the very best thing that could possibly be done with him the probability being, that the skipper would would flog him to death, in a playful mood, some day after dinner, or would knock his brains out with an iron bar both pastimes being, as is pretty generally known,@@@ @@very favourite and common recreations among gentleman of that class. @The more the case presented itself to the board, in this point of view, the more manifold the advantages of the step appeared so, they came to the conclusion@ that the only way of providing for Oliver effec@tually, was to send him to sea without delay. Mr. Bumble had been despatched to make various preliminary inquiries, with the view of finding out some captain or other who wanted a cabin-boy without any friends and was return@ing to the workhouse to communicate the result ofhis mission@ when he encountered@@@@@ at the gate, no less a person than Mr. Sowerberry, the parochial undertaker. Mr. Sowerberry was a tall gaunt, large-jointed man, attired in a suit of thread@bare black, with darned cotton stockings of the same colour, and shoes to answer. His features were @not natu@rally intended to wear a smiling aspect, but he was in general rather given to professional joco@sity. His step was elastic, and his face betoken@ed inward pleasantry, as he advanced to Mr. Bumble, and shook him cordially by the hand. 'I have taken the measure of the two wo@men that died last night, Mr. Bumble,' said the undertaker. '@You'll make your fortune, Mr. Sower@berry,' said the beadle, as he th@rust his thumb and forefinger into the proffered snuff-box of the undertaker@ which was an ingenious little model of a patent coffin. 'I say you'll make your fortune, Mr. Sowerberry,' repeated Mr. Bum@ble, tappi@ng the undertaker on the shoulder, in a friendly manner, with his cane. 'Think so?' said the undertaker in a tone which half admitted and half disputed the pro@@bability of the event. 'The prices allowed by the board are very small, Mr. Bumble.' 'So are the coffins,' replied the beadle@ with precisely as near an approach to a laugh as a great official ought to indulge in. Mr. Sowerberry was much tickled at this@ as of course he ought to be@ and laughed a long time without cessation. @@@'Well, well, Mr. Bumble,' he said at length, 'there's no deny@ing that, since the new system of feeding has come in, the coffins are something narrower and more shallow than they used to be but we must have some profit, Mr. Bumble. Well-seasoned timber is an expensive article, sir and all the iron handles come, by canal, from Birmingham.' 'Well, well,' said Mr. Bumble, 'every trade has its drawbacks@@@@. A fair profit is, of course, allowable.' 'Of course, of course,' replied the under@taker 'and if I don't get a profit upon this or that particular article, why, I make it up in the long-run, you see--he! he! he!' 'Just so,' said Mr. Bumble. 'Though I must say,' continu@ed the u@ndertaker, resuming the current of observations which the beadle had interrupted 'though I must say, Mr. Bumble, that I have to contend against one very great disadvantage@ which is, that all the stout people go off the  people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years, are the first to sink when they come into the house and let me tell you, Mr. Bumble, that three or four inches over one's calculation makes a great hole in one's profits@ especially when one has a family to provide for, sir.' As Mr. Sowerberry said this, with the be@coming indignation of an ill-used man@ and as Mr. Bumble felt that it rather tended to convey a reflection on the honour of the parish@ the latter gentleman thought it advisable to change the subject@@@. Oliver Twist being uppermost in his mind, he made him his theme. 'By the bye,' said Mr. Bumble, 'you don't know anybody who wants a boy, do you? A porochial 'prentis, who is at present a dead-weight a millstone, as I may say, round the porochial throat? Liberal terms, Mr. Sower@berry, liberal terms@@@?' As Mr. Bumble spoke, he raised his cane to the bill above him, and gave three distinct raps upon the words 'five pounds' which were printed thereon in Roman capitals of gigantic size. 'Gadso!' said the undertaker@ taking Mr. Bumble by the gilt-edged lappel of his official coat 'that's just the very thing I wanted to speak to you about. You know--dear me, what a very elegant button this is, Mr. Bumble! I never noticed it before.' 'Yes, I think it@@@ rather pretty,' said the beadle, glancing proudly downwards at the large brass buttons which embellished his coat. 'Th@@e die is the same as the porochial seal--the Good Samaritan healing the sick and bruised man. The board presented it to me on New@year's morning, Mr. Sowerberry. I put it on, I re@member, for the first time, to attend the in@quest on that reduced tradesman, who died in a doorway at midnight.' 'I recollect,' said the undertaker. 'The jury brought in, Died from exposure to the cold, and want of the common necessaries of life, didn't they?' Mr. Bumble nodded. 'And they made it a special verdict, I think,' said the undertaker, 'by adding some words to the effect, that if the relieving officer had--'  interposed the  the board attended to all the nonsense that ignorant jurymen talk, they'd have enough to do.' 'Very true,' said the undertaker 'they would indeed.' 'Juries,' said Mr. Bumble, grasping his cane tightly, as was his wont when working into a passion 'juries is ineddicated, vulgar, grovelling wretches.' 'So they are,' said the undertaker. 'They haven't no more philosophy nor poli@tical economy about 'em than that,' said the beadle, snapping his fingers contemptuously. 'No more they have,' acquiesced the under@taker. 'I despise 'em,' said the beadle, growing very red in the face. 'So do I,' rejoined the undertaker. 'And I only wish we'd a jury of the inde@pendent sort, in the house for a week or two,' said the beadle 'the rules and regulations of the board would soon bring their spirit down for @'em.' 'Let 'em alone for that,' replied the un@dertaker. So saying, he smiled, approvingly to@@@@@ calm the rising wrath of the indignant parish officer. Mr@ Bumble lifted off his cocked hat@ took a handkerchief from the inside of the crown@ wiped from his forehead the perspiration which his rage had engendered@ fixed the cocked hat on again and, turning to the undertaker, said in a calmer voice 'Well what about the boy?' 'Oh!' replied the undertaker 'why, you know, Mr. Bumble, @I pay a good deal towards the poor's rates.' 'Hem!' said Mr. Bumble. 'Well?' 'Well,' replied the undertaker, 'I was thinking that if I pay so much towards 'em, I've a right to get as much out of 'em as I can, Mr. Bumble and so-@@@@ I'll take the boy myself.' Mr. Bumble grasped the undertaker by the arm, and led him into the building. Mr. Sow@erberry was closeted with the board for five minutes@ and it was arranged that Oliver should go to him that evening 'upon liking@'--a phrase which means, in the case of a parish apprentice, that if the master find, upon a short trial, that he can get enough work out of a boy without putting too much food into him, he shall have him for a term of years, to do what he likes with. When little Oliver was taken before 'the gentlemen' that evening@ and informed that he was to go, that night, as general house-lad to a coffin-maker's@ and that if he complained of his situation, or ever came back to the parish again, he would be sent to sea, there to be drowned, or knocked on the head, as the case might be, he evinced so little emotion, that they by common consent pronounced him a hardened young rascal, and ordered Mr. Bumble to re@move him forthwith. Now, although it was very natural that the board, of all people in the world, should feel in a great state of virtuous astonishment and horror at the smallest tokens of want of feeling on the part of anybody, they were rather out, in this particular instance. The simple fact was, that Oliver, instead of possessing too little feeling, possessed rather too much@ and was in a fair way of being  a state of brutal stupidity and  ill usage he had received. He heard the news of his destination, in perfect silence@ and, having had his luggage put into his hand--which was not very difficult to carry, inasmuch as it was all comprised within the limits of a brown paper parcel, about half a foot square by three inches deep--he pulled his cap over his eyes@ and once more attaching himself to Mr. Bumble's coat cuff, was led away by that dignitary to a new scene of suffering. For some time, Mr. Bumble drew Oliver along, without notice or remark@ for the beadle carried his head very erect, as a beadle always should and, it being a windy day, little Oliver was completely enshrouded by the skirts of Mr. Bumble's coat as they blew open, and disclosed to great advantage his flapped waistcoat and drab plush knee-breeches. As they drew near to their destination, however, Mr. Bumble thought it expedient to look down, and see that the boy was in good order for inspection by his new master@ which he accordingly did, with a fit and becoming air of gracious patronage. 'Oliver!' said Mr. Bumble. 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver, in a low, tre@m@ulous voice. 'Pull that cap off your eyes, and hold up your head, sir.' Although Oliver did as he was desired, at once@ and passed the back of his unoccupied hand briskly across his eyes, he left a tear in them when he looked up at his conductor. As Mr. Bumble gazed sternly upon him, it rolled down his cheek. It was followed by another, and another. The child made a strong effort, but it was an unsuccessful one@@@@. Withdraw@ing his other hand from Mr. Bumble's@ he covered his face with both@ and wept unti@l the tears sprung out from between his chin and bony fingers. 'Well!' exclaimed Mr. Bumble, stopping short, and darting at his little charge a look of intense malignity.  the ungrate@fullest, and worst-disposed boys as ever I see, Oliver, you are the--' 'No, no, sir,' sobbed Oliver, clinging to the hand which held the well-known cane 'no, no, sir I will be good indeed indeed, indeed I will, sir! I am a very little boy, sir@ and it is so--so--' 'So what?' inquired Mr. Bumble in amaze@ment. 'So lonely, sir! So very lonely!' cried the child. 'Everybody hates me. Oh! sir, don't, don't pray be cross to me!' The child beat his hand upon his heart@ and looked in@@ his companion's face, with tears of real agony. Mr. Bumble regarded Oliver's piteous and helpless look, with some astonishment, for a few seconds@ hemmed three or four times in a husky manner@ and@ after muttering something about 'that troublesome cough,' bade Oliver dry his eyes and be a good boy. Then once more taking his hand, walked on with him in silence. The undertaker, who had just put up the shutters of his shop, @@@@was making some entries in his day-book by the light of a most appropriate@@ dismal candle, when Mr. Bumble entered. 'Aha!' said the undertaker@ looking up from the book, and pausing in the middle of a word 'is that you, Bumble?' 'No one else, Mr. Sowerberry,' replied the beadle. 'Here! I've brought the boy.' Oliver made a bow. 'Oh! that's the boy, is it?' said the under@taker@ raising the candle above his head, to get  Oliver. 'Mrs. Sowerberry@, will  here a moment, my dear?' Mrs. Sowerberry emerged from a little room behind the shop, and presented the form of a short, then, squeezed-up woman, with a vixenish countenance. 'My dear,' said Mr. Sowerberry, deferen@tially, 'this is the boy from the workhouse that I told you of.' Oliver bowed again. 'Dear me!' said the undertaker's wife, 'he's very small.' 'Why, he _is_ rather small,' replied Mr. Bumble@ looking at Oliver as if it were his fault that he was no bigger 'he is small. There's no denying it. But he'll grow, Mrs. Sower@berry--he'll grow.' 'Ah! I dare say he will,' replied the lady pettishly, 'on our victuals and our drink. I see no saving in parish children, not I for they always cost more to keep, than they're worth. However, men always think they know best. There! Get down@stairs, little bag o' bones.' With this, the undertaker's wife opened a side door, and pushed Oliver down a steep flight of stairs into a stone cell, damp and dark@ forming the ante-room to the coal-cellar, and denomi@nated @@@'kitchen' wherein sat a slatternly girl, in shoes down at heel, and blue worsted stockings very much out of repair. 'Here, Charlotte,' said Mr@. Sowerberry, who had followed Oliver down, 'give this boy some of the cold bits that were put by for Trip. He hasn't co@me home since the morning, so he may go without 'em. I dare say the boy isn't too dainty to eat'em--are you, boy?' Oliver, whose eyes had glistened at the men@tion of meat, and who was trembling with eagerness to devour it, replied in the negative and a plateful of coarse broken victuals was set before him. I wish some well-fed philosopher, whose meat and drink turn to gall within him@ whose blood is ice,ice, whose heart is iron@ could have seen Oliver Twist clutching at the dainty viands that the dog had  the horrible avidity with which Oliver tore the bits asunder with all the ferocity of famine. There is only one thing I should like better@ and that would be to see  making the same sort of meal himself, with the same relish. 'Well,' said the undertaker's wife, when Oliver had finished his supper@ which she had regarded in silent horror, and with fearful auguries of his future appetite 'have you done?' There being nothing eatable within his reach, Oliver replied in the affirmative. 'Then come with me,' said Mrs. Sower@berry@ taking up a dim and dirty lamp, and leading the way up@stairs 'your bed's under the counter. You don't mind sleeping among the coffins, I suppose? But it doesn't much matter whether you @@do or don't, for you can't sleep anywhere else. Come don't keep me here all night!' Oliver lingered no longer, but meekly fol@lowed his new mistress.  being left to himself in the under@taker's shop, set the lamp down on a workman's bench, and gazed timidly about him with a feel@ing of awe and dread, which many people a good deal older than he@@@@ will be at no loss to understand. An unfinished coffin on black tressels, which stood in the middle of the shop, looked so gloomy and death-like that a cold tremble came over him, every time his eyes wandered in the direction of the dismal object@ from which he almost expected to see some frightful form slowly rear its head, to drive him mad with terror. Against the wall were ranged, in regular array, a long row of elm boards cut in@@ the same shape@ @@@@looking in the dim light, like high-shouldered ghosts with their hands in their breeches pockets. Coffin-plates, elm-chips, bright-headed nails, and shreds of black cloth, lay scattered on the floor and the wall behind the counter was ornamented with a lively representation of two mutes in very stiff neckcloths, on duty at a large private door, with a hearse drawn by four black steeds, ap@proaching in the distance. The shop was close and hot@@@@. The atmosphere seemed tainted with the smell of coffins. The recess beneath the counter in which his flock mattress was thrust, looked like a grave. Nor were these the only dismal feelings which depressed Oliver. He was alone in a strange place and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of us will sometimes feel in such a situation. The boy had no friends to care for, or to care for him. The regret of no recent separation was fresh in his mind the absence of no loved and well-remembered face sank heavily into his heart. But his heart was heavy, notwithstanding and he wished, as he crept into his narrow bed, that that were his coffin, and that he could be lain in a calm and lasting sleep in the churchyard ground, with the tall grass waving gently above his head, and the sound of the old deep bell to soothe him in his sleep. Oliver was awakened in the morning, by a loud kicking at the outside of the shop-door@ which, before he could huddle on his clothes, was repeated, in an angry and impetuous man@ner, about twenty-five times@@@@. When he began to undo the chain, the legs  and a voice began. 'Open the door, will yer?' cried the voice which belonged to the legs which had kicked at the door. 'I will, directly, sir,' replied Oliver@ undo@ing the chain, and turning the key. 'I suppose yer the new boy, ain't yer?' said the voice@ through the key-hole. 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver. 'How old are yer?' inquired the voice. 'Ten, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Then I'll whop yer when I get in,' said the voice 'you just see if I don't, that@'s all, my work'us brat!' and having made this obli@ging promise, the voice began to whistle. Oliver had been too often subjected to the process to which the very expressive monosyl@lable just recorded@ bears reference, to entertain the smallest doubt that the owner of the voice, whoever he might be, would redeem his pledge, most honourably. He drew back the bolts with a trembling hand, and opened the door. For a second or two, Oliver glanced up the street, and down the street, and over the way@ impressed with the belief that the unknown, who had addressed him through the key-hole, had walked a few paces off, to warm himself@ for nobody did he see but a big charity-boy, sitting on a post in front of the house, eating a slice of bread and butter@ which he cut into wedges, the size of his mouth, with a clasp-knife, and then consumed with great dexterity. 'I beg your pardon, sir,' said Oliver@ at length seeing that no other visitor made his appearance 'did you knock?' 'I kicked,' replied the charity-boy. 'Did you want a coffin, sir?' inquired Oli@ver, innocently. At this, the charity-boy looked monstrous fierce@ and said that Oliver would  before long, if he cut jokes with his su@periors in that way. 'Yer don't know who I am, I suppose, Work'us?' said the charity-boy, in continua@tion descending from the top of the post, meanwhile, with edifying gravity. 'No, sir,' rejoined Oliver. 'I'm Mister Noah Claypole,' said the cha@rity-boy, 'and you@'re under me. Take down the shutters, yer idle young ruffian!' With this, Mr. Claypole administered a kick to Oli@ver, and entered the shop with a dignified air, which did him great credit. It is difficult for a large-headed, small-eyed youth, of lumbering make and heavy countenance, to look dignified under any circumstances but it is more espe@cially so, when superadded to these personal attractions are a red nose and yellow smalls. Oliver, having taken down the shutters, and broken a pane of glass in his effort@ to stagger away beneath the weight of the first one to a small court at the side of the house in which they were kept during the day, was graciously assisted by Noah@ who@ having consoled him with the assurance that 'he@'d catch it,' con@descended to help him. Mr. Sowerberry came down soon after@@@@@. Shortly afterwards, Mrs. Sowerberry appeared@@@. Oliver having 'caught it,' in fulfil@ment of Noah's prediction, followed that young gentleman down the stairs to breakfast. 'Come near the fire, Noah,' said Charlotte. 'I saved a nice little bi@@t of bacon for you from master's breakfast. Oliver, shut that door at Mister Noah's back, and take them bits that @I've put out on the cover of the bread-pan. There's your tea take it away to that box, and drink it there, and make haste, for they'll want you to mind the shop. D'ye hear?' 'D'ye hear, Work'us?' said Noah Claypole. 'Lor, Noah!' said Charlotte, 'what a rum creature you are@! Why don't you let the boy alone?' 'Let him alone!' said Noah. 'Why every@body lets him alone enough, for the mat@ter of that. Neither his father nor his mother will ever interfere with him. All his relations let him have his own way pretty well. Eh, Charlotte? He! he! he!' 'Oh, you queer soul!' said Charlotte, burst@ing into a hearty laugh, in which she was joined by Noah after which they both looked scorn@fully at poor Oliver Twist, as he sat shivering @@on the box in the coldest corner of the room, and ate the stale pieces which had been spe@cially reserved for him. Noah was a charity-boy, but not a work@house orphan. No chance-child was he, for he could trace his genealogy all the way back to his parents, who lived hard by his mother being a washerwoman, and his father a drunken soldier, discharged with a wooden leg, and a diurnal pension of twopence-halfpenny and an unstateable fraction. The shop-boys in the neighbourhood had long been in the habit of branding Noah in the public streets, with the ignominious epithets of 'leathers,'  the like and Noah had bourne them with@out reply. But, now that fortune had cast in his way a nameless orphan, at whom even the meanest could point the finger of scorn, he retorted on him with interest. This affords charming food for contemplation. It shows us what a beautiful thing human nature  how impartially the same amiable qualities are developed in the finest lord and the dirtiest charity-boy. Oliver had been sojourning at the under@taker's some three weeks or a month@@@@. Mr. and Mrs. Sowerberry--the shop being shut up--were taking their supper in the little back-par@lour, when Mr. Sowerberry, after several defe@rential glances at his wife, said, 'My dear--' He was going to say more but, Mrs. Sowerberry looking up, with a pecu@liarly unpropitious aspect, he stopped short. 'Well,' said Mrs. Sowerberry, sharply. 'Nothing, my dear, nothing,' said Mr. Sowerberry. 'Ugh, you brute!' said Mrs. Sowerberry. 'Not at all, my dear,' said Mr. Sowerberry humbly. 'I thought you didn't want to hear, my dear. I was only going to say--' 'Oh, don't tell me what you were going to say,' interposed Mrs. Sowerberry. '@@I am nobody don't consult me, pray. _I_ don't want to intrude upon your secrets.@@@@' As Mrs. Sowerberry said this, she gave an hys@terical laugh, which threatened violent conse@quences. 'But, my dear,' said Sowerberry, 'I want to ask your advice.' 'No, no, don't ask mine,' replied Mrs. Sowerberry, in an affecting manner @@'ask somebody else's.' Here, there was another hysterical laugh, which frightened Mr. Sower@berry very much. This is a very common and much-approved matrimonial course of treat@ment, which is often very effective. It at once reduced Mr. Sowerberry to begging, as a special favour, to be allowed to say what Mrs. Sower@berry was most curious to hear@@@@@. After a short  the permission was most graciously conceded. @'It's only about young Twist, my dear,' said Mr. Sowerberry. 'A very good-looking boy, that, my dear.' 'He need be, for he eats enough,' observed the lady. 'There's an expression of melancholy in his face, my dear,' resumed Mr. Sowerberry, 'which is very interesting. He would make a delightful mute, my love.' Mrs. Sowerberry looked up with an expres@sion of considerable wonderment. Mr. Sower@berry remarked it@ and, without allowing time for any observation on the good lady's part, proceeded. 'I don't mean a regular mute to attend grown-up people, my dear, but only for chil@dren's practice. It would be very new to have a mute in proportion, my dear. You may de@pend upon i@@t@@, it would have a superb effect.' Mrs. Sowerberry, who had a good deal of taste in the undertaking way, was much struck by the novelty of this idea but, as it would have been compromising her dignity to have said so, under existing circumstances, she merely inquired, with much sharpness, why such an ob@vious suggestion had not presented itself to her husband's mind before? Mr. Sowerberry right@ly construed this, as an acquiescence in his pro@position it was speedily determined,  Oliver should be at once initiated into the mysteries of the  and, with this view, that he should accompany his master on the very n@ext occasion of his services being required. The occasion was not long in coming@@@@. Half an hour after breakfast next morning, Mr. Bumble entered the shop@ and supporting his cane against the counter, drew forth his large leathern pocket-book@ from which he selected a small scrap of paper, which he handed over to Sowerberry. 'Aha!' said the undertaker, glancing over it with a lively countenance 'an order for a coffin, eh?' 'For a coffin first, and a porochial funeral afterwards,' replied Mr. Bumble, fastening the strap of the leathern pocket-book@ which, like himself, was very corpulent. 'Bayton,' said the undertaker, looking from the scrap of paper to Mr. Bumble. 'I never heard the name before.' Bumble shook his head, as he replied, 'Ob@stinate people, Mr. Sowerberry@ very obstinate. Proud, too, I'm afraid, sir.' 'Proud, eh?' exclaimed Mr. Sowerberry with a sneer. 'Come, that's too much.' 'Oh, it's sickening,' replied the l, Mr. Sowerberry!' 'So it is,' asquiesced the undertaker. 'We only heard of the family the night before last,' said the beadle 'and we shouldn't have known anything about them, then, only a wo@@man who lodges in the same house made an application to the porochial committee for them to send the porochial surgeon to see a woman as was very bad. He had gone out to dinner but his 'prentice@ which is a very clever lad@ sent 'em some medicine in a blacking-bottle, offhand.' 'Ah, there's promptness,' said the under@taker. 'Promptness, indeed!' replied the beadle. 'But what's the consequence what@'s the un@grateful behaviour of these rebels, sir@? Why, the husband sends back word that the medicine won't suit his wife's complaint, and so she shan't take it--says she shan't take it, sir! Good, strong, wholesome medicine, @as was given with great success to two Irish labourers and a coal-heaver, only a week before--sent 'em for nothing, with a blackin'-bottle in,--and he sends back word that she shan't take it, sir!' As  presented itself to Mr. Bumble's mind in full force, he struck the counter sharply with his cane, and became flushed with indignation. 'Well,' said the undertaker, 'I ne--ver--did--' 'Never did, sir!' ejaculated the beadle. 'No, nor nobody never did but@ now she's dead, we@'ve got to bury her@ and that's the directio@n and the sooner it@'s done, the better.' Thus saying, Mr. Bumble put on his cocked hat wrong side first, in a fever of parochial excitement@ and flo@unced out of the shop. 'Why, he was so angry, Oliver, that he for@got even to ask after you!' said Mr. Sower@berry, looking after the beadle as he strode down the street. 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver, who had carefully kept himself out of sight, during the interview@ and who was shaking from head to foot at the @mere recollection of the sound of Mr. Bum@ble's voice. He needn't haven taken the trouble to shrink from Mr. Bumble's glance, however for that functionary, on whom the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat had made a very strong impression, thought that now the undertaker had got Oliver upon tria@l the subject was better avoided, until such time as he should be firmly bound for seven years, and all danger of his being returned upon the hands of the parish should be thus effectually and legally overcome. 'Well,' said Mr. Sowerberry, taking up his hat, 'the sooner this job is done, the better. Noah, look after the shop. Oliver, put on your cap, and come with me.' Oliver obeyed, and followed his master on his professional mission. They walked on, for some time, through the most crowded and densely inhabited part of the town@ and then, striking down a narrow street more dirty and miserable than any they had yet passed through, paused to look for the house which was the object of their search. The houses on either side were high and large, but very old, and tenanted by people of the poorest class as their neglected appearance would have sufficiently denoted, without the concurrent testimony afforded by the squalid looks of the few men and women who, with folded arms and bodies half doubled, occasionally skulked along. A great many of the tenements had shop-fronts but these were fast closed, and mouldering away only the upper rooms being inhabited.  which had become insecure from age and decay, were prevented from falling into the street, by huge beams of wood @@@of wood reared against the walls, and fir@mly plant@@ed in the road but even these crazy dens seemed to have been selected as the @nightly haunts of some houseless wretches, for many of the rough boards which supplied the place of door and window, were wrenched from their @@@@positions, to afford an aperture wide enough for the passage of a human body. The kennel was stagnant and filthy. The very rats, which here and there lay putrefying in its rottenness, were hideous with famine. There was neither knocker nor bell-handle at the open door where Oliver and his master stopped so, groping his way cautiously through the dark passage, and bidding Oliver keep close to him and not be afraid@ the undertaker mount@ed to the top of the first flight of stairs@@@@. Stumbling against a door on the landing, he rapped at it with his knuckles. It was opened by a young girl of thirteen or fourteen. The undertaker at once saw enough of what the room contained, to know it was the apartment to which he had been directed. He stepped i@@@@n@ Oliver followed him. There was no fire in the room but a man was crouching, mechanically, over the empty stove. An old woman, too, had drawn a low stool to the cold hearth, and was sitting beside him. There were some ragged children in another corner and in a small recess, opposite the door, there lay upon the ground, something@ covered with an old blanket. Oliver shuddered as he cast his eyes towar@d the place, and crept involuntarily closer to his master for though it was covered up, the boy felt that it was a corpse. The man's face was thin and very pale his hair and beard were grizzly@@@@@ his eyes were bloodshot. The old woman's face was wrinkled@ her two remaining teeth protruded over her under lip@ and her eyes were bright and pier@cing. Oliver was afraid to look at either her or the man. They seemed so like the rats he had seen outside. 'Nobody shall go near her,' said the man, starting fiercely up, as the undertaker approach@ed the recess. 'Keep back! Damn you, keep back, if you've a life to lose!' 'Nonsense, my good man,' said the under@taker, who was pretty well used to misery in all its shapes. 'Nonsense!' 'I tell you,' said the man@ clenching his hands, and stamping furiously on the floor,--'I tell you I won't have her put into the ground. She couldn't rest there. The worms would worry her--not eat her--she is so worn away.' The undertaker offered no reply to this raving@ but producing a tape from his pocket, knelt down for a moment by the side of the body. 'Ah!' said the man@ bursting into tears, and sinking on his knees at the feet of the dead woman 'kneel down, kneel down --kneel round her, every one of you, and mark my@ words! I say she was starved to death. I never knew how bad she was, till the fever came upon her@ and then her bones were starting through the skin. There was neither fire nor candle she died in the dark--in the dark! She couldn't even see her children's faces, though we heard her gasping out their names. I begged for her in the streets@ and they sent me to prison. When I came back, she was dying and all the blood in my heart has dried up, for they starved her to death. I swear it before the God that saw it! They starved her!' He twined his hands in his hair@ and, with a loud scream, rolled grovelling upon the floor@ his eyes fixed, and the foam @his lips. The terrified children cried bitterly but the old woman, who had hitherto remained as quiet as if she had been wholly deaf to all that passed, menaced them into silence@@@@. Having unloosened the  still remain@ed extended on the ground, she tottered towards the undertaker. 'She was my daughter,' said the old wo@man, nodding her head in the direction of the corpse@ and speaking with an idiotic leer, more ghastly than even the presence of death  Lord@! Well, it _is_ strange that I who gave birth to her, and was a woman then, should be alive and merry now, and she lying there so cold and stiff! Lord, Lord!--to think of it it's as good as a play--as good as a play!' As the wretched creature mumbled and chuckled in her hideous merriment, the under@taker turned to go away. 'Stop, stop!' said the old woman in a loud whisper. 'Will she be buried to-morrow, or next day, or to-night? I laid her out@ and I must walk, you know. Send me a large cloak @a good warm one@ for it is bitter cold. We should have cake and wine, too, before we go@! Never mind send some bread--only a loaf of bread and a cup of water. Shall we have some bread, dear?' she said eagerly@ catching at the undertaker's coat, as he once more moved towards the door. 'Yes, yes,' said the undertaker,'of course.  disengaged himself from@ the old woman's grasp@ and, dra@wing Oliver after him, hurried away. The next day, the family having been meanwhile relieved with a half-quartern loaf and a piece of cheese, left with them by Mr. Bumble himself, Oliver and his master return@ed to the miserable abode@ where Mr. Bumble had already arrived, accompanied by four men from the workhouse, who were to act as bearers. An old black cloak had been thrown over the rags of the old woman and the man and the bare coffin having been screwed down, was hoisted on the shoulders of the bearers, and carried into the street. 'Now, you must put your best leg foremost, old lady!' whispered Sowerberry in the old woman's ear 'we are rather late@ and it won't do, to keep the clergyman waiting. Move on, my men,--as quick as you like!' Thus directed, the bearers trotted on under their light burden@ and the two mourners kept as near them, as they could. Mr. Bumble and Sowerberry walked at a good smart pace in front and Oliver, whose legs were not so long as his master's, ran by the side. There was not so great a necessity for hurry@ing as Mr. Sowerberry had anticipated, how@ever for when they reached the obscure corner of the churchyard in which the nettles grew, and where the parish graves were made, the clergyman had not arrived@ and the clerk, who was sitting by the vestry-room fire, seemed to think it by no means improbable that it might be an hour or so, before he came. So, they put the bier bier on the brink of the grave and the two mourners waited patiently in the damp clay, with a cold rain drizzling down, while the rag@ged boys@ whom the spectacle had attracted into the churchyard@ played a noisy game at hide-and-seek among the tomb@stones, or varied their amusements by jumping backwards and for@@wards over the coffin. Mr. Sowerberry and Bumble, being personal friends of the clerk, sat by the fire with him, and read the paper. At length, after @@a lapse of something more than an hour, Mr. Bumble, and Sowerberry, and the clerk, were seen running towards the grave@@@. Immediately afterwards, the clergy@man appeared@ putting on his surplice as he came along. Mr. Bumble then thrashed a boy or two, to keep up appearances and the re@verend gentleman, having read as much of the burial service as could be compressed into four minutes, gave his surplice to the clerk, and walked away again. @@'Now, Bill!' said Sowerberry to the grave-digger. 'Fill up!' It was no very difficult task, for the grave was so full, that the uppermost coffin was within a few feet of the surface. The grave-digger shovelled in the earth@ stamped it loosely down with his feet@ shouldered his spade@ and walked off, followed by the boys, who murmured very loud complaints at the fun being over so soon. 'Come, my good fellow!' said Bumble, tap@ping the man on the back. 'They want to shut up the yard.' The man@ who had never once moved, since he had taken his station by the grave side, started, raised his head, stared at the person who had addressed him, walked forward for a few paces@ and fell down in a swoon. The crazy old woman was too much occupied in bewailing the loss of her cloak which the un@dertaker had taken off to pay him any atten@@tion so they threw a can of cold water over him@ and when he came to, saw him safely out of the churchyard, locked the gate, and depart@ed on their different ways. 'Well, Oliver,' said Sowerberry, as they walked home, 'how do you like it?' 'Pretty well, thank you, sir' replied Oli@ver, with considerable hesitation. 'Not very much, sir.' 'Ah, you'll get used to it in time, Oliver,' said Sowerberry. 'Nothing when you _are_ used to it, my boy.' Oliver wondered, in his own mind, whether it had taken a very long time to get Mr. Sower@berry used to it. But he thought it better not to ask the question@ and walked back to the shop@ thinking over all he had seen and heard.  month's trial over, Oliver was formally apprenticed. It was a nice sickly season just at this time. In commercial phrase, coffins were looking up and, in the course of a few weeks, Oliver @a@@@cquired a great deal of experience. The success of Mr. Sowerberry's ingenious speculation, exceeded even his most sanguine hopes. The oldest inhabitants recol@lected no period at which measles had been so prevalent, or so fatal to infant existence and many were the mournful processions which little Oliver headed, in a hat-band reaching down to his knees, to the indescribable admiration and emotion of all the mothers in the town. As Oliver accompanied his master in most of his adult expeditions too, in order that he might acquire that equanimity of demeanour and full command of nerve which @@was@ essential to a finished undertaker, he had many opportunities of observing the beautiful resignation and for@titude with which some strong-minded people bear their trials and losses. For instance@ when Sowerberry had an order for the burial of some rich old lady or gentle@man, who was surrounded by a great number of nephews and nieces, who had been perfectly inconsolable during the previous illness, and whose grief had been wholly irrepressible even on the most public occasions, they would be as happy among themselves as need be--quite cheerful and contented--conversing together with as much freedom and gaiety, as if nothing whatever had happened to disturb them. Hus@bands, too, bore the loss of their wives with the most heroic calmness@@@. Wives, again, put on weeds for their husbands, as if, so far from grieving in the garb of sorrow, they had made up their minds to render it as becoming and attractive as possible. It was observable, too, that ladies and gentlemen who were in passions of anguish during the ceremony of interment, recovered almost as soon as they reached home, and became quite composed before the tea-drinking was over. All this was very pleasant and improving to see@ and Oliver beheld it with great admiration. That Oliver Twist was moved to resignation by the example of these good people, I cannot, although I am his biographer, undertake to af@firm with any degree of confidence but I can most distinctly say, that for many months he continued meekly to submit to the domination and ill-treatment of Noah Claypole@ who used him far worse than before, now that his jealousy was roused by seeing the new boy promoted to the black stick and hat@band, while he, the old one, remained stationary in the muffin-cap and leathers. Charlotte treated him @ill, because Noah did and Mrs. Sowerberry was his de@cided enemy, because Mr. Sowerberry was dis@posed to be his friend so, between these three on one side, and a glut of funerals on the other, Oliver was not altogether as comfortable as th@e hungry pig was, when he was shut up, by mis@take, in the grain department of a brewery. And now, I come to a very important passage in Oliver's history@ for I have to record an act, slight and unimportant perhaps in appearance, but which indirectly produced a m@@@@@aterial change in all his future prospects and proceed@ings. One day, Oliver and Noah had descended into the kitchen@ at the usual dinner-hour, to banquet upon a small joint of mutton--a pound and a half of the worst end of the neck--when@ Charlotte being called out of the way, there en@sued a brief interval of time, which Noah Clay@pole, being hungry and vicious, considered he could not possibly devote to a worthier purpose than aggravating and tantalising young Oliver Twist. Intent upon this innocent amusement, Noah put his feet on the table-cloth@ and pulled Oli@ver's hair@ and twitched his ears@ and expressed his opinion that he was a 'sneak' and further@more announced his intention of coming to see him hanged, whenever that desirable event should take place@ and entered upon various @t@@@@@opics of petty annoyance, like a malicious and ill-conditioned charity-boy as he was. But,  do to this day, when they want to be funny. He got rather personal. 'Work'us,' said Noah, 'how's your mo@ther?' 'She's dead,' replied Oliver 'don't you say anything about her to me!' Oliver's colour rose as he said this he breathed quickly@ and there was a curious working of the mouth and nostrils, which Mr. Claypole thought must be the immediate pre@@cursor of a violent fit of crying. Under this impressio@n he returned to the charge. 'What did she die of, Work'us?' said Noah. 'Of a broken heart, some of our old nurses told me,' replied Oliver@ more as if he were talking to himself, than answering Noah. 'I think I know what it must be to die of that!' 'Tol de rol lol lol, right fol lairy, Work'us,' said Noah, as a tear rolled down Oliver's cheek. 'What@'s set you a snivelling now?' 'Not _you_,' replied Oliver,  replied Oliver, sharply. 'There that's enough. Don't say anything more to me about her you'd better not!' 'Better not!' exclaimed Noah. 'Well! Better not! Work'us, don't be impudent. _Your_ mother, too!@@ She was a nice 'un@ she was. Oh, Lor!' And here, Noah nodded his head expressively@ and curled up as much of his small red nose as muscular action could collect together, for the occasion. 'Yer know, Work'us,' continued Noah, em@boldened by Oliver's silence, and speaking in a jeering tone of affected pity of all tones the most annoying 'Yer know, Work'us, it ca@n't be helped now@ and of course yer couldn't help it then@ and I am very sorry for it@ and I'm sure we all are, and pity yer very much. But yer must know, Work'us, yer mother was a regular right-down bad 'un.' 'What did you say?' inquired Oliver, looking up very quickly. 'A regular right-down bad 'un, Work'us,' replied Noah, coolly. 'And it's a great deal better, Work'us, that she died when she did, or else she'd have been hard labouring in Bride@well, or transported, or hung@ which is more likely than either, isn't it?' Crimson with fury, Oliver started up@ over@threw the chair and table@ seized Noah by the throat@ shook him, in the violence of his rage, till his teeth chattered in his head@ and@ collect@ing his whole force into one heavy blow, felled him to the ground. A minute ago, the boy had looked the quiet  dejected creature that harsh treatment had made him. But his spirit was roused at last the cruel insult to his dead mother had set his blood on fire. His breast heaved@ his attitude was erect@ his eye bright and vivi@@@@@d his whole person changed, as he  over the cowardly tormentor who lay crouching at his feet@ and defied him with an energy he had never known before. 'He'll murder me!' blubbered Noah. 'Charlotte! missis! Here@'s the new boy a mur@dering of me! Help! help! Oliver's gone mad! Char--lotte!' Noah's shouts were responded to, by a loud scream from Charlotte, and a louder from Mrs. Sowerberry the former of whom rushed into the kitchen by a side-door, while the latter paused on the staircase till she was quite certain that it was consistent with the preservation of human life, to come further down. 'Oh, you little wretch!' screamed Char@lotte@ seizing Oliver with her utmost force, which was about equal to that of a moderately strong man in particularly good training. 'Oh, you little un-grate-ful, mur-de-rous, hor-rid vi@llain!' And between every syllable, Char@lotte gave Oliver a blow with all her might@@@@@ accompanying it with a scream, for the benefit of society. Charlotte's fist was by no means a light one but, lest it should not be effectual in calming Oliver's wrath, Mrs. Sowerberry plunged into the kitchen, and assisted to hold him with one hand, while she scratched his face with the other. In this favourable position of affairs, Noah rose from the ground, and pommelled him @@@@@behind. This was rather too violent exercise to last long. When they were a@@@@@ll wearied out, and could tear and beat no longer, they dragged Oliver, struggling and shouting, but nothing daunted, into the dust-cellar, and there locked him up. This being done, Mrs. Sowerberry sunk into a chair, and burst into tears. 'Bless her, she's going off!' said Charlotte. 'A glass of water, Noah, dear. Make haste!' 'Oh! Charlotte,' said Mrs. Sowerberry@ speaking as well as she could, through a defici@ency of breath, and a sufficiency of cold water, which Noah had poured over her head and shoulders. 'Oh! Charlotte, what a mercy we have not been@@@ murdered in our beds!' 'Ah! mercy indeed, ma'am,' was the reply. I only hope this'll teach master not to have@@@ any more of these dreadful creatures, that are born to be murderers and robbers from their very cradle. Poor Noah! He was all but killed, ma'am, when I come in.' 'Poor fellow!' said Mrs. Sowerberry@ look@ing piteously on the charity-boy. Noah, whose top waistcoat-button might have been somewhere on a level with the crown of Oliver's head, rubbed his eyes with the inside of his wrists while this commiseration was be@stowed upon him, and performed some affecting tears and sniffs. 'What's to be done!' exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry. 'Your master's not at home@ there@'s not a man in the house, and he'll kick that door down in ten minutes.' Oliver's vigorous plunges against the bit of timber in question, rendered this occu@rance highly pro@bable. 'Dear, dear! I don't know, ma'am,' said Charlotte, 'unless we send for the police-offi@cers.' 'Or the millingtary,' suggested Mr. Clay@pole. 'No, no,' said Mrs. Sowerberry@ bethinking herself of Oliver's old friend. 'Run to Mr. Bumble, Noah, and tell him to come here directly, and not to lose a minute never mind your cap! Make haste! You can hold a knife to that black eye, as you run along@@@@. It@'ll keep the swelling down.' Noah stopped to make no reply, but started off at his fullest speed and very much it asto@nished the people who were out walking, to see a charity-boy tearing through the streets pell-mell, with no  a clasp-knife at his eye.  ran along the streets at his swiftest pace, and paused not once for breath, until he reached the workhouse-gate. Having rested here, for a minute or so, to collect a good burst of sobs and an imposing show of tears and terror, he knocked loudly at the wicket@ and presented such a rueful face to the aged pauper who opened it, that even he, who saw nothing but rueful faces about him at the best of times, started back in astonishment. 'Why, what's the matter with the boy!' said the old pauper. 'Mr. Bumble! Mr. Bumble!' cried Noah, with well-affected dismay@ and in tones so loud and agitated, that they not only caught the ear of Mr. Bumble himself, who happened to be hard by, but alarmed him so much that he rushed into the yard without his cocked hat,--which is a very curious and remarkable circum@stance@ as showing that even a beadle, acted uponpon a sudden and powerful impulse, may be afflicted with a momentary visitation of loss of  of personal dignity. 'Oh, Mr. Bumble, sir!' said Noah 'Oli@ver, sir,--Oliver has--' 'What? What?' interposed Mr. Bumble@ with a gleam of pleasure in his metallic eyes. 'Not run away he hasn't run away, has he, Noah?' 'No, sir, no. Not run away, sir, but he's @turned wicious,' replied Noah. 'He tried to murder me, sir@ and then he tried to murder Charlotte@ and then missis. Oh@! what dreadful pain it is! Such agony, please, sir!' And here, Noah writhed and twisted his body into an extensive variety of eel-like positions thereby giving Mr. Bumble to understand that, from the violent and sanguinary onset of Oliver Twist, he had sustained severe internal injury and damage, from which he was at that moment suffering the acutest torture. When Noah saw that the intelligence he communicated perfectly paralysed Mr. Bumble, he imparted additional effect thereunto, by bewailing his dreadful wounds ten times louder than before and@ when he observed a gentle@man in a white waistcoat crossing the yard, he was more tragic in his lamentations than ever@ rightly conceiving it highly expedient to attract the notice, and rouse the indignation, of the gentleman aforesaid. The gentleman's notice was very soon attract@ed@ for he had not walked three paces, when he turned angrily round, and inquired what that young cur was howling for, and why Mr. Bum@ble did not favour him with something which would render the series of vocular exclamations so designated, an involuntary process? 'It's a poor boy from the free-school, sir,' replied Mr. Bumble, 'who has been nearly murdered--all but murdered, sir,--by young Twist.' 'By Jove!' exclaimed the gentleman in the white waistcoat, stopping short. 'I knew it! I felt a strange presentiment from the very first, that that audacious young savage would co@me to be hung!' 'He has likewise attempted, sir, to murder the female servant,' said Mr. Bumble, with a face of ashy paleness. 'And his missis,' interposed Mr. Claypole. 'And his master, too, I think you said, Noah?' added Mr. Bumble. 'No! he's out, or he would have murdered him,' replied Noah. 'He said he wanted to.' 'Ah! Said he wanted to, did he, my boy?' inquired the gentleman in the white waistcoat. 'Yes, sir,' replied Noah. 'And please, sir, missis wants to know whether Mr. Bumble can spare time to step up there, directly, and flog him--'cause master's out.' 'Certainly, my boy certainly,' said the gentleman in the white waistcoat@ smiling be@nignly, and patting Noah's head, which was about three inches higher than his own. @@@'You're a good boy--a very good boy. Here's a penny for you. Bumble, just step up to Sowerberry's with your cane, and see what's best to be done. Don't spare him, Bumble.' 'No, I will not, sir,' replied the  replied the beadle. And the cocked hat and cane having been, by this time, adjusted to their owner's satisfac@tion, Mr. Bumble and Noah Claypole betook themselves with all speed to the undertaker's shop. Here the position of affairs had not at all im@proved@@@. Sowerberry had not yet returned, and Oliver continued to kick, with undiminished vigour, at the cellar-door. The accounts of his ferocity@ as related by Mrs. Sowerberry and Charlotte, were of so startling a nature, that Mr. Bumble judged it prudent to parley, before opening the door. With this view he gave a kick at the outside, by way of prelude@ and, then, applying his mouth to the keyhole, said, in a deep and impressive tone 'Oliver!' 'Co@me@ you let me out!' replied Oliver, from the inside. 'Do you know this here voice, Oliver?' said Mr. Bumble. 'Yes,' replied Oliver. 'Ain't you afraid of it, sir? Ain't you a-trembling while I speak, sir?' said Mr. Bumble. 'No!' replied Oliver, boldly. An answer so different from the one he had expected to elicit, and was in the habit of receiving, staggered Mr. Bumble not a little. He stepped back from the keyhole@ drew him@self up to his full height@ and looked from one to another of the three by@standers, in mute astonishment. 'Oh, you know, Mr. Bumble, he must be mad,' said Mrs. Sowerberry. 'No boy in half his senses could venture to speak @so to you.' 'It's not Madness, ma'am,' replied Mr. Bumble, after a few moments of deep medi@tation. 'It's Meat.' 'What?' exclaimed Mrs. Sowerberry. 'Meat, ma'am, meat,' replied Bumble, with stern emphasis. 'You@'ve over-fed him, ma'am. You@'ve raised a artificial soul and spirit in him, ma'am@ unbecoming a person of his condition@ as the board, Mrs. Sowerberry, who are prac@@tical philosophers, will tell you. What have paupers to do with soul or spir@@@@it@@@@? It's quite enough that we let 'em have live bodies. If you had kept the boy on gruel, ma'am, this would never have happened.' 'Dear, dear!' ejaculated Mrs. Sowerberry, piously raising her eyes to the kitchen ceiling 'this co@mes of being liberal!' The liberality of Mrs. Sowerberry to Oliver, had consisted of a profuse bestowal upon him of all the dirty odds and ends which nobody else would eat so@@@@@ there was a great deal of meekness and self-devotion in her voluntarily remaining under Mr. Bumble's heavy accusa@tion. Of which, to do her justice, she was wholly innocent, in thought, word, or deed. 'Ah!' said Mr. Bumble, when the lady brought her eyes down to earth again 'the only thing that can be done now, that I know of, is to leave him in the cellar for a day or so, till he's a little starved down@ and then to take him out, and keep him on gruel all through the apprenticeship. He comes of a bad family. Excitable natures, Mrs. Sowerberry! Both the nurse and doctor said, that that mother of his made her way here, against difficulties and pain that would have killed any well-disposed wo@man, weeks before.' At this point of Mr. Bumble's discourse, Oli@ver, just hearing enough to know that some @@@some@ allusion was being made to his mother, recommenced kicking, with a violence th@at rendered every other sound inaudible. Sower@berry returned at this juncture@@@@. Oliver's offence having been explained to him, with such exaggerations as the ladies thought best calcu@lated to rouse his ire, he unlocked the cellar-door in a twinkling, and dragged his rebellious apprentice out, by the collar. Oliver's clothes had been torn in the beating he had received his face was bruised and scratched@ and his hair scattered over his fore@head. The angry flush had not disappeared, however and when he was pulled out of his prison, he scowled boldly on Noah, and looked quite undismayed. 'Now, you are a nice young fellow, ain't you?' said Sowerberry@ giving Oliver a shake, and a box on the ear. 'He called my mother names,' replied Oliver. 'Well, and what if he did, you little un@grateful wretch?' said Mrs. Sowerberry. 'She deserved what he said, and worse.' 'She didn't' said Oliver. 'She did,' said Mrs. Sowerberry. 'It's a lie!' said Oliver. Mrs. Sowerberry burst into a flood of tears. This flood of tears left Mr. Sowerberry no alter@native. If he had hesitated for one instant to punish Oliver most severely, it must be quite clear to every experienced reader that he would have been, according to all precedents in disputes of matrimony established, a brute, an un@natural husband, an insulting creature, a base imitation of a man, and various other agreeable charac@ters too numerous for recital within the limits of this chapter. To do him justice, he was, as far as his power went--it was not very extensive@--kindly disposed towards the boy perhaps, because it was his interest to be so@ perhaps, because his wife disliked him. The flood of tears, however, left him no resource so he at once gave him a drubbing, which satisfied even Mrs. Sowerberry herself, and rendered Mr. Bumble's subsequent application of the paro@chial cane, rather unnecessary. For the rest of the day, he was shut up in the back kitchen, in company with a pump and a slice of bread and@ at night, Mrs. Sowerberry, after making various remarks outside the door, by no means complimentary to the memory of his mother, looked into the room, and, amidst the jeers and pointings of Noah and Charlotte, ordered him up@stairs to his dismal bed. It was not until he was left alone in the si@lence and stillness of the gloomy workshop of the undertaker, that Oliver gave way to the feel@ings which the day's treatment may be supposed likely to have awakened in a mere child. He had listened to their taunts with a look of contempt he had borne the lash without a cry@ for he felt that pride swelling in his heart which would have kept down a shriek to the last, though they had roasted him alive. But@ now, when there were none to see or hear him, he fell upon his knees on the floor@ and, hiding his face in his hands, wept such tears as, God send for the credit of our nature, few so young may ever have cause to pour out before him! For a long time, Oliver remained motionless in this attitude. The candle was burning low in the socket when he rose to his feet@@@@. Hav@ing gazed cautiously round him, and listened intently, he gently undid the fastenings of the door, and looked abroad. It was a cold, dark night. The stars seemed, to the boy's eyes, farther from the earth than he had ever seen them before there was no wind and the sombre shadows thrown by the trees upon the ground, looked sepulchral and death-like, from being so still. He softly reclosed the door@@@@@. Having availed himself of the expiring light of the candle to tie up in a handker@chief the few articles of wearing apparel he had, sat himself down upon a bench, to wait for morning. With the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters, Oliver arose, and again unbarred the door. One timid look around--one moment's pause of hesitation--he had closed it behind him, and was in the open street. He looked to the right and to the left, un@certain whither to fly. He remembered to have seen the waggons, as they went out, toiling up the hill. He took the same route@ and arriving at a footpath across the fields@ which he knew, after some distance, led out again into the road@ struck into it, and walked quickly on. Along this same footpath, Oliver well-remem@bered he had trotted beside Mr. Bumble, when he first carried him to the workhouse from the farm. His way lay directly in front of the cot@tage. His heart beat quickly when he bethought himself of this@ and he half resolved to turn back. He had come a long way though, and should lose a great deal of time by doing so. Besides, it was so early that there was very little fear of his being seen so he walked on. He reached the house. There was no ap@pearance of its inmates stirring at that early hour. Oliver stopped, and peeped into the garden. A child was weeding one of the little beds a@@@@s he stopped, he raised his pale face@ and disclosed the features of one of his former companions. Oliver felt glad to see him, before he went@ for, though younger than him@self, he had been his little friend and playmate. They had been beaten, and starved, and shut up together, many and many a time. 'Hush, Dick!' said Oliver, as the boy ran to the gate, and thrust his thin arm between the rails to greet him. 'Is any one up?' 'Nobody but me,' replied the child. 'You mus@n't say you saw me, Dick,' said Oliver. 'I am runningaway. They beat and ill-use me, Dick and I am going to seek my fortune, some long way off. I don't know where. How pale you are!' 'I heard the doctor tell them I was dying,' replied the child with a faint smile. 'I am very glad to see you, dear but don't stop, don't stop!' 'Yes, yes, I will, to say good-b'ye to you,' replied Oliver. 'I shall see you again, Dick. I  You will be well and happy!' 'I hope so,' replied the child. 'After I am dead, but not before. I know the doctor must be right, Oliver, because I dream so much of Heaven, and Angels, and kind faces that I never see when I am awake. Kiss me,' said the child, climbing up the low gate, and flinging his little arms round Oliver's neck. 'Good-b'ye, dear! God bless you!' The blessing was from a young child's lips, but it was the first that Oliver had ever heard invoked upon his head and through@@@@ the struggles and sufferings, and troubles and changes, of his after life, he never once forgot it. Chapter  reached the stile at which the by-path terminated@ and once more gained the high-road. It was eight o'clock now@@@@. Though he was nearly five miles away from the town, he ran, and hid behind the hedges, by turns, till noon@ fearing that he might be pur@sued and overtaken. Then he sat down to rest by the side of the mile@stone, and began to think, for the first time, where he had better go and try to live. The stone by which he was seated, bore, in large characters, an intimation that it was just seventy miles from that spot to London. The name awakened a new train of ideas in the boy's mind. London!--that great great place!--nobody--not even Mr. Bumble--could ever find him there! He had often heard the old men in the workhouse, too, say that no lad of spirit need want in London@ and that there were ways of living in that vast city, which those who had been bred up in country parts had no idea of. It was the very place for a homeless boy, who must die in the streets unless some one helped him. As these things passed through his thoughts, he jumped upon his feet, and again walked forward. He had diminished the distance between himself and London by full four miles more, before he recollected how much he must un@dergo ere he could hope to reach his place of destination. As this consideration forced itself upon him, he slackened his pace a little, and meditated upon his means of getting there. He had a crust of bread, a coarse shirt, and two pairs of stockings, in his bundle. He had  too--a gift of Sowerberry's after some fu@neral in which he had acquitted himself more than ordinarily well--in his pocket. 'A clean shirt,' thought Oliver, 'is a very comfortable thing@@@@@@ and so are two pairs of darned stockings@ and so is a penn@y but they are small helps to a sixty-five miles' walk in winter time.' But Oliver's thoughts, like those of most other people, although they were ex@tremely ready and active to point out his di@fficulties, were wholly at a loss to suggest any feasible mode of surmounting them so, after a good deal of thinking to no particular pur@pose, he changed his little bundle over to the other shoulder, and trudged on. Oliver walked twenty miles that day@ and all that time tasted nothing but the crust of dry bread, and a few draughts of water, which he begged at the cottage-doors by the road-side. When the night came, he turned into a mea@dow@ and, creeping close under a hay-rick, determined to lie there, till morning. He felt frightened at first, for the wind moaned dis@mally over the empty fields@ and he was cold and hungry, and more alone than he had ever felt before. Being very tired with his walk, how@ever, he soon fell asleep and forgot his troubles. He felt cold and stiff, when he got up next morning, and so hungry that he was obliged to exchange the penny for a small loaf, in the very first village through which he passed. He had walked no more than twelve miles, when night closed in again@@@. His feet were sore, and his legs so weak that they trembled beneath him. Another night passed in the bleak damp air@@@@, made him worse@@@@@ when he set for@ward on his journey next morning@ he could hardly crawl along. He waited at the bottom of a steep hill till a stage-coach came up, and then begged of the outside passengers but there were very few who took any notice of him@ and even those@ told him to wait till they got to the top of the hill, and then let them see how far he could run for a halfpenny. Poor Oliver tried to keep up with the coach a little way, but was unable to do it, by reason of his fatigue and sore feet. When the outsides saw this, they put their halfpence back into their pockets again, de@claring that he was an idle young dog, and didn't deserve anything and the coach rattled away@ and left only a cloud of dust behind. In some villages, large painted boards were fixed up warning all persons who begged within the district, that they would be sent to jail. Thi@s frightened Oliver very much, and made him @him glad to get out of  all pos@sible expedition. In others, he would stand about the inn-yards, and look mournfully at every one who passed a proceeding which generally terminated in the landlady's ordering one of the post-boys who were lounging about, to drive that strange boy out of the place, for she was sure he had come to steal something. If he begged at a farmer's house, ten to one but they threatened to set the dog on him and when he showed his nose in a shop, they talked about the beadle--which brought Oliver's heart into his mouth,--very often the only thing he had there, for many hours together. In fact, if it had not been for a good-hearted turnpike-man, and a benevolent old lady, Oli@ver's troubles would have been shortened by the very same process which had put an end to his mother's in other words, he would most as@suredly have fallen dead upon the king's high@way. But the turnpike-man gave him a meal of bread and cheese and the old lady, who had a shipwrecked grandson wandering barefoot@@ in some distant part of the earth, took pity upon the poor orphan, and gave him what little she could afford--and more--with such kind and gentle words, and such tears of sym@pathy and compassion, that they sank deeper into Oliver's soul, than all the sufferings he ha@d ever undergone. Early on the seventh morning after he had left his native place, Oliver limped slowly into the little town of Barnet. The window-shut@ters were closed@ the street was empty@ not @a soul had awakened to the business of the day. The sun was rising in all its splendid beauty@ but the light only served to show the boy his own lonesomeness and desolation, as he sat, with bleeding feet and covered with dust, upon a @@@d@@oor-step. By degrees, the shutters were opened@ the window-blinds were drawn up@ and people @@@@@@@began passing to and fro. Some few stopped to gaze at Oliver for a moment or two, or turned round to stare at him as they hurried by but none relieved him, or troubled them@selves to inquire how he came there. He had no heart to beg. And there he sat. He had been crouching on the step for some time@ wondering at the great number of public-houses every other house in Barnet was a tavern, large or small , gazing listlessly at the coaches as they passed through, and thinking how strange it seemed that they could do, with ease, in a few hours, what it had taken him a whole week of courage and determination beyond his years to accomplish@ when he was roused by observing that a boy, who had passed him carelessly some minutes before, had returned, and was now sur@veying him most earnestly from the opposite side of the way. He took little heed of this at first but the boy remained in the same attitude of close observation so long, that Oliver raised his head, and returned his steady look. Upon this, the boy crossed over@ and@ walking close up to Oliver, said, 'Hullo, my covey! What's the row?' The boy who addressed this inquiry to the young wayfarer, was about his own age@ but one of the queerest looking boys that Oliver had even seen. He was a snub-nosed, flat-browed, common-faced boy enough@ and as dirty a ju@venile as one would wish to see but he had about him all the airs and manners of a man. He was short of his ag@e with rather bow-legs, and little, sharp, ugly eyes. His hat was stuck on the top of his head so @lightly, that it threat@ened to fall off every moment--and would have done so, very often, if t@he wearer had not had a knack of every now and then giving his head a sudden twitch, which brought it back to its old place again. He wore a man's coat, which reached nearly to his heels. He had turned the cuffs back, half-way up his arm, to get his hands out of the sleeves@ apparently with the ul@timate view of thrusting them into the pockets of his corduroy trousers@ for there he kept them. He was, altogether, as roystering and swagger@ing a young gentleman as ever stood four feet six, or something less, in the bluchers.@@@ @'Hullo, my covey! What's the row?' said this strange young gentleman to Oliver. 'I am very hungry and tired,' replied Oli@ver@ the tears standing in his eyes as he spoke. 'I have walked a long way. I have been walking these seven days.' 'Walking for sivin days!' said the young gentleman. 'Oh, I see. Beak's order, eh? But,' he added, noticing Oliver's look of sur@prise, 'I suppose you don't know what a beak is, my flash com-pan-i-on.' Oliver mildly replied, that he had always heard a bird's mouth described by the term in question. 'My eyes, how green!' exclaimed the young gentleman. 'Why, a beak@'s a madg@st'rate and when you walk by a beak's order, it@'s not straight forerd, but always agoing up, and niver a coming down agin. Was you never on the mill?' 'What mill?' inquired Oliver. 'What mill@! Why, _the_ mill--the mill as takes up so little room that it'll work inside a Stone Jug@ and always goes better when the wind's low with people, than when it@'s high@ acos then they can't get workmen. But come,' said the young gentleman 'you want grub, and you shall have it. I'm at low-water-mark myself--only one bob and a magpie but, as far as it goes, I'll fork out and stump. Up with you on your pins. There! Now then! 'Morrice!' Assisting Oliver to rise, the young gentleman took him to an adjacent chandler's shop, where he purchased a sufficiency of ready-dressed ham and a half-quartern loaf, or, as he himself ex@pressed it, 'a fourpenny bran!' the ham being kept clean and preserved from dust, by the in@genious expedient of making a hole in the loaf by pulling out a portion of the crumb, and st@uffing it therein. Taking the bread under his arm, the young gentl@man turned into a small public-house, and led the way to a tap-room in the rear of the premises. Here, a pot of beer was brought in, by @@@@direction of the myste@rious youth and Oliver, falling to, at his new friend's bidding, made a long and hearty meal, d@uring the progress of which the strange boy eyed him from time to time with great attention. 'Going to London?' said the strange boy, when Oliver had at length concluded. 'Yes.' 'Got any lodgings?' 'No.' 'Money?' 'No.' The strange boy whistled@ and put his arms into his pockets, as far as the big coat-sleeves would let them go. 'Do you live in London?' inquired Oliver. 'Yes. I do, when I'm at home,' replied the boy. 'I suppose you want some place to sleep in to-night, don't you?' 'I do, indeed,' answered Oliver. 'I have not slept under a roof since I left the country.' 'Don't fret your eyelids on that score,' said the young gentleman. 'I've got to be in London to-night@ and I know a 'spectable old gentleman as lives there, wot'll give you lodg@ings for nothink, and never ask for the change--that is, if any genelman he knows interduces you. And don't he know me? Oh, no! Not in the least! By no means. Certainly not!' The young gentleman smiled, as if to inti@mate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical@ and finished the beer as he did so. This unexpected offer of shelter was too tempting to be resisted@ especially as it was immediately followed up, by the assurance that the old gentleman @@re@@@@@@ferred to, would doubtless provide Oliver with a comfort@able place, without loss of time. This led to a more friendly and confidential dialogue@ from which Oliver discovered that his friend's name was Jack Dawkins, and that he was a peculiar pet and protege of the elderly gentleman before mentioned. Mr. Dawkin@'s appearance did not say a vast deal in favour of the comforts which his patron's interest obtained for those whom he took under his protection but, as he had a rather flightly and dissolute mode of con@versing, and furthermore avowed that among his intimate friends he was better known by  Artful Dodger,' Oliver concluded that, being of a dissipated and care@less turn, the moral precepts of his benefactor had hitherto been thrown away upon him. Under this impression, he secretly resolved to cultivate the good opinion of the old gentleman as quickly as possible and, if he found the Dodger incorrigible, as he more than half suspected he should, to decline the honour of his farther acquaintance. As John Dawkins objected to their entering London before nightfall, it was nearly eleven o'clock when they reached the turnpike at Islington. They crossed from the Angel into St. John's Road@ struck down the small street which terminates at Sadler's Wells Theatre@ through Exmouth Street and Coppice Row@ down the little court by the side of the workhouse@ across the classic ground which once bore the name of Hockley-in-the-Hole@ thence into Little Saffron Hill@ and so into Saffron Hill the Great@ along which the Dodger scudded at a rapid pace, directing Oliver to follow close at his heels. Although Oliver had enough to occupy his attention in keeping sight of his leader, he could not help bestowing a few hasty glances on either side of the way, as he passed along. A dirtier or more wretched place he had never seen. The street was very narrow and muddy, and the air was impregnated with filthy odours. There were a good many small shops but the only stock in trade appeared to be heaps of children, who, even at that time of night, were crawling in and out at the doors, or screaming from the inside. The sole places that seemed to prosper amid the general blight of the place, were the public-houses@ and in them, the lowest orders of Irish w@@@ wrangling with might and main. Covered ways and yards, which here and there diverged from the main street, disclosed little knots of houses, where drunken men and women were positively wallowing in @in filth and from several of the door-ways, great ill-looking fel@lows were cautiously emerging, bound, to all appearance, @@on no very well-disposed or harmless errands. Oliver was just considering whether he@@@@@ hadn't better run away, when they reached the bottom of the hill. His conductor, catching him by the arm, pushed open the door of a house near Field Lane@ and@ drawing him into the passage, closed it behind them. 'Now, then!' cried a voice from below, in reply to a whistle from the Dodger. 'Plummy and slam!' was the reply. This seemed to be some watchword or signal that all was right for the light of a feeble candle gleamed on the wall at the remote@ end of the passage@ and a man's face peeped out, from where a balustrade of the old kitchen staircase had been broken away. 'There@'s two on you,' said the man, thrust@ing the candle farther out, and shielding his eyes with his hand. 'Who@'s the t'@other one?' 'A new pal,' replied Jack Dawkins, pulling Oliver forward. 'Where did he come from?' 'Greenland. Is Fagin up@stairs?' 'Yes, he@'s a sortin' the wipes. Up with you!' The candle was drawn back, and the face disappeared. Oliver, groping his way with one hand, and having the other firmly grasped by his companion, ascended with much difficulty the dark and broken stairs@ which his conductor mounted with an ease and expedition that showed he was well acquainted with them. He threw open the door of a back-room, and drew Oliver in after him. The walls and ceiling of the room were per@fectly black with age and dirt. There was a deal table before the fire@ upon which were a candle, stuck in a ginger-beer bottle, two or three pewter pots, a loaf and butter, and a plate. In a frying-pan, which was on the fire, and which was secured to the mantelshelf by a string, some sausages were cooking and standing over them, with a toasting-fork in his hand, was a very old shrivelled Jew, whose villainous-looking and repulsiveface was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair. He was dressed in a greasy flannel gown, with his throat bare@ and seemed to be dividing his attention between the frying-pan and the clothes-horse, over which a great number of silk hand@kerchiefs were hanging. Several rough beds made of old sacks, were huddled side by side on the floor@@@. Seated round the table were four or five boys, none older than the Dodger, smok@ing long clay pipes, and drinking spirits with the air of middle-aged men. These all crowded about their associate as he whispered a few words to the Jew@ and then turned round and grinned at Oliver. So did the Jew himself, toasting-fork in hand. 'This is him, Fagin,' said Jack Dawkins 'my friend@ Oliver Twist.' The Jew grinned and, making a low obei@sance to Oliver, took him by the hand, and hoped he should have the honour of his inti@mate acquaintance. Upon this, the young gentleman with the pipes came round him, and shook both his hands very hard--especi@ally the one in which he held his little bundle. One young gentleman was very anxious to hang up his cap for him and another was so obliging as to put his hands in his pockets, in order that, as he was very tired, he might not have the trouble of emptying  he went to bed. These civilities would probably @@@@@be@@ extended much farther, but for a liberal exercise of the Jew's toasting-fork on the heads and shoulders of the affectionate youths who offered them. 'We are very glad to see you, Oliver, very,' said the Jew. 'Dodger, take off the sausages@ and draw a tub near the fire for Oli@ver. Ah, you@'re a-staring at the pocket-hand@kerchiefs! eh, my dear@. There are a good many of 'em, ain't there? We've just looked 'em out, ready for the wash that@'s all, Oliver that's all. Ha! ha! ha!' The latter part of this speech, was hailed by a boisterous shout from all the hopeful pupils of the merry old gentleman. In the midst of which they went to supper. Oliver ate his share, and the Jew then mixed him a glass of hot gin-and-water@ telling him he must drink it off directly, because another gentleman wanted the tumbler. Oliver did as he was desired.  afterwards@ he felt himself gently lifted on to one of the sacks@ and then he sunk into a deep sleep.  was late next morning when Oliver awoke, from a sound, long sleep. There was no other person in the room but the old Jew, who was boiling some coffee in a saucepan for breakfast, and whistling softly to himself as he stirred it round and round, with an iron spoon. He would stop every now and then to listen when there was the least noise below and@ when he had satistified himself, he would go on whistling and stirring again, as before. Although Oliver had roused himself from sleep, he was not thoroughly awake. There is a drowsy state, between sleeping and wak@ing, when you dream more in five minutes with your eyes half open, and yourself half conscious of everything that is passing around you, than you would in five nights with your eyes fast closed, and your senses wrapt in per@fect unconsciousness. At such time@, a mortal knows just enough of what his mind is doing, to form some glimmering conception of its mighty powers, its bounding from earth and spurning time and space, when freed from the restraint of its corporeal associate. Oliver was precisely in this condition. He saw the Jew with his half-closed eyes@ heard his low whistlin@g and recognised the sound of the spoon grating against the saucepan's sides and yet the self-same senses were mentally engaged, at the same time, in busy action with almost everybody he had ever known. When the coffee was done, the Jew drew the saucepan to the hob.  an irreso@@lute attitude for a few minutes, as if he did not well know how to employ himself, he turned round and looked at Oliver, and called him by his name. He did not answer, and was to all appearances asleep. After satisfying himself upon this head, the Jew stepped gently to the door@ which he fast@ened. He then drew forth@ as it seemed to Oli@ver, from some trap in the floor@ a small box, which he placed carefully on the table. His eyes glistened as he raised the lid, and looked in. Dragging an old chair to the table, he sat down@ and took from it a magnificent gold watch, sparkling with  said the Jew, shrugging up his shoulders, and distorting every feature with a hideous grin. 'Clever dogs! Clever dogs! Staunch to the last! Never told the old par@son where they were. Never poached upon old Fagin! And why should they@? It wouldn't have loosened the knot, or kept the drop up, a minute longer. No, no, no! Fine fellows! Fine fellows!' With these, and other muttered reflections of the like nature, the Jew once more deposited the watch in its place of safety. At least half a dozen more were severally drawn forth from the same box, and surveyed with equal plea@sure besides rings, brooches, bracelets, and other articles of jewellery, of such magnificent materials, and costly workmanship, that Oliver had no idea, even of their names. Having replaced these trinkets, the Jew took out another@ so small that it lay in the palm of his hand. There seemed to be some very mi@nute inscription on it@ for the Jew laid it flat upon the table, and@ shading it with his hand, pored over it, long and earnestly. At length he put it down, as if despairing of success@ and, leaning back in his chair, muttered 'What a fine thing capital punishment is@! Dead men never repent dead men never bring awkward stories to light. Ah, it's a fine thing for the trade! Five of @'em strung up in a row, and none left to play booty, or turn white-livered!' As the Jew uttered these words, his bright dark eyes, which had been staring vacantly before him, fell on Oliver's face the boy's eyes were fixed on his in mute curiousity@ and@ although the recognition was only for an instant--for the briefest space of time that can possibly be con@ceived--it was enough to show the old man that he had been observed. He closed the lid of the box with a loud crash@ and, laying his hand on a bread knife which was on the table, started furiously up. He trembled very much though for, even in his terror, Oliver could see that the knife quivered in the air. 'What's that?' said the Jew. 'What do you watch me for? Why are you awake? What have you seen@? Speak out, boy! Quick--quick! for your life. 'I wasn@'t able to sleep any longer, sir,' replied Oliver, meekly. 'I am very sorry if I have disturbed you, sir.' 'You were not awake an hour ago?' said the Jew, scowling fiercely on the boy. 'No! No, @@@!' replied Oliver. 'Are you sure?' cried the Jew@ with a still fiercer look than before@ and a threatening attitude. 'Upon my word I was not, sir,' replied Oliver, earnestly. 'I was not, indeed, sir.' 'Tush, tush, my dear!' said the Jew, ab@ruptly resuming his old manner, and playing with the knife a little, before he laid it down@ as if to induce the belief that he had caught it up, in mere sport. 'Of course I know that, my dear. I only tried to frighten you. You@'re a brave boy. Ha! ha! you@'re a brave boy, Oli@ver@@.' The Jew rubbed his hands with a chuckle, but glanced uneasily at the box, not@withstanding. 'Did you see any of these pretty things, my dear?' said the Jew, laying his hand upon it after a short pause. 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Ah!' said the Jew, turning rather pale. 'They--they@'re mine, Oliver my little pro@perty. All I have to live upon, in my old age. The folks call me a miser, my dear. Only a miser that@'s all.' Oliver thought the old gentleman must be a decided miser to live in such a dirty place, with so many watches but, thinking that perhaps his fondness for the Dodger and the other boys, cost him a good deal of money, he only cast a deferential look at the Jew, and asked if he might get up. 'Certainly, my dear, certainly,' replied the old gentleman. 'Stay. There@'s a pitcher of water in the corner by the door. Bring it here@ and I'll give you a basin to wash in, my dear.' Oliver got up@ walked across the room@ and stooped for an@ instant to raise the pitcher. When he turned his head, the box was gone. He had scarcely washed himself, and made everything tidy, by emptying the basin out of the window, agreeably to the Jew's directions, when the Dodger returned@ accompanied by a very sprightly young friend, whom Oliver had seen smoking on the previous night, and who was now formally introduced to him as Charley Bates. The four sat down, to breakfast@, on the coffee, and some hot rolls and ham which the Dodger had brought home in the crown of his hat. 'Well,' said the Jew, glancing slyly at Oliver, and addressing himself to the Dodger, 'I hope you've been at work this morning, my dears?' 'Hard,' replied the Dodger. 'As nails,' added Charley Bates. 'Good boys, good boys!' said the Jew. 'What have you got, Dodger?' 'A couple of pocket-books,' replied that young gentl@man. 'Lined?' inquired the Jew,  'Pretty well,' replied the Dodger, produ@cing two pocket-books@ one green, and the other red. 'Not so heavy as they might be,' said the Jew, after looking at the insides carefully 'but very neat and nicely made. Ingenious workman, ain't he, Oliver?' 'Very@ indeed, sir,' said Oliver. At which Mr. Charles Bates laughed uproariously@ very much to the amazement of Oliver, who saw nothing to laugh at, in anything that had passed. 'And what have you got, my dear?' said Fagin to Charley Bates. 'Wipes,' replied Master Bates at the same time producing four pocket-handkerchiefs. 'Well,' said the Jew, inspecting them closely 'they're very good ones, very. You haven't marked them well, though, Char@ley so the marks shall be picked out with a needle, and we'll teach Oliver how to do it. Shall us, Oliver, eh@? Ha! ha! ha!' 'If you please, sir,' said Oliver. 'You'd like to be able to make pocket-hand@kerchiefs as easy as Charley Bates, wouldn't you, my dear?' said the Jew. 'Very much, indeed, if you'll teach me, sir,' replied Oliver. Master Bates saw something so exquisitely ludicrous in this reply, that he burst into an@other laugh which laugh, meeting the coffee he was drinking, and carrying it down some wrong channel, very nearly terminated in his prema@ture suffocation. 'He is so jolly green!' said Charley when he recovered, as an apology to the company for his unpolite behaviour. The Dodger said nothing, but he smoothed Oliver's hair @o@@@@ver his eyes, and said he'd know better, by and by upon which the old gentleman, observing Oliver's colour mounting, changed the subject by asking whether there had been much of a crowd at the execution that morning? This made him wonder more and more@ for it was plain from the replies of the two boys that they had both been there@ and Oliver naturally wondered how they could possibly have found time to be so very indus@trious. When the breakfast was cleared away@ the merry old gentl@man and the two boys played at a very curious and uncommon game, which was performed in this way. The merry old gentleman, placing a snuff-box in one pocket of his trousers, a note-case in the other, and a watch in his waistcoat pocket, with a guard-chain round his neck,@ and sticking a mock dia@mond pin in his shirt@ buttoned his coat tight round him, and@ putting his spectacle-case and handkerchief in his pockets, trotted up and down the room with a stick, in imitation of the manner in which old gentlemen walk about the streets @@any hour in the day. Sometimes he stopped at the fire-place, and sometimes at the door, making believe that he was staring with all his might into shop-windows. At such times, he would look constantly round him, for fear of thieves, and would keep slapping all his pockets in turn, to see that he hadn't lost anything, in such a very funny and natural manner, that Oliver laughed till the tears ran down his face. All this time, the two boys followed him closely about@ getting out of his sight, so nimbly, every time he turned round, that it was impossible to follow their motions. At last, the Dodger trod upon his toes, or ran upon his boot accide@nt@@ly, while Charley Bates stumbled up against him behind and in that one moment they took from him, with the most extraordinary rapidity, snuff-box, note-case, watch-guard, chain, shirt-pin, pocket-handkerchief, even the spectacle-case. If the old gentl@man felt a hand in any one of his pockets, he cried out where it was@ and then the game began all over again. When this game had been played a great many times, a couple of young ladies called to see the young gentleman one of whom was na@med Bet, and the other Nancy. They wore a good deal of hair, not very neatly turned up behind, and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings. They were not exactly pretty, perhaps but they had a great deal of colour in their faces, and looked quite stout and hearty. Being remarkably free and agreeable in their manners, Oliver thought them very nice girls indeed. As there is no doubt they were. The@@ visitors stopped a long time. Spirits were produced, in consequence of one of the young ladies complaining of a coldness in her inside@ and the conversation took a very con@vivial and improving turn. At length, Charley Bates expressed his opinion that it was time to pad the hoof. This, it occurred to Oliver, must be French for going out for directly afterwards, the Dodger, and Charley, and the two young ladies, went away together, having been kindly furnished by  my dear,' said Fagin. 'That's a pleasant life, isn't it@?@@ They have gone out for the day.' 'Have they done work, sir?' inquired Oliver. @Olive said the Jew 'that is, unless they should unexpectedly come across any, when they are out and they won't neglect it, if they do, my dear, depend upon it. Make 'em your models, my dear. Make 'em your  the fire-shovel on the hearth to add force to his words 'do everything they bid you, and take their advice in all matters--especially the Dodger's, my dear. He'll be a great man himself, and will make you one too, if you take pattern by him.--Is my handkerchief hanging out of my pocket, my dear?' said the Jew, stopping short. 'Yes, sir,' said Oliver. 'See if you can take it out, without my feel@ing it@ as you saw them do, when we were at play this morning.' Oliver held up the bottom of the pocket with one hand, as he had seen the Dodger hold it, and drew the handkerchief lightly out of it with the other. 'Is it gone?' cried the Jew. 'Here it is, sir,' said Oliver, showing it in his hand. 'You@'re a clever boy, my dear,' said the playful old gentleman, patting Oliver on the head approvingly. 'I never saw a sharper lad. Here's a shilling for you. If you go on, in this way, you'll be the greatest man of the time. And now come here, and I'll show you how to take the marks out of the handkerchiefs.' Oliver wondered what picking the old gen@tleman's pocket in play, had to do with his chances of being a great man. But, thinking that the Jew, being so much his senior, must know best, he followed him quietly to the table, and was soon deeply involved in his new study.  many days, Oliver remained in the Jew's room, picking the marks out of the pocket-handkerchief@, of which a great number were brought home, and sometimes taking part in the game already described@ which the two boys and the Jew played, regularly, every morning. At length, he began to languish for @@@@fresh air, and took many occasions of earn@estly entreating the old gentleman to allow him to go out to work with his two companions. Oliver was rendered the more anxious to be actively employed, by what he had seen of the stern morality of the old gentleman's character. Whenever the Dodger or Charley Bates came home at night, empty-handed, he would expati@ate with great vehemence on the misery of idle and lazy habits@ and would enforce upon them the necessity of an active life, by sending them sup@perless to bed. @@On one occasion, indeed, he even went so far as to knock them both down a flight of stairs but this was carrying out his virtuous precepts to an unusual extent. At length, one morning, Oliver obtained the permission he had so eagerly sought. There had been no handkerchiefs to work upon, for two or three days, and the dinners had been rather meagre. Perhaps these were reasons for the old gentleman's giving his assent@ but, whether they were or no, he told Oliver he might go, and placed him under the joint guar@dianship of Charley Bates, and his friend the Dodger. The three boys sallied out the Dodger with his coat-sleeves tucked up, and his hat cocked, as usual@ Master Bates sauntering along with his hands in his pockets@ and Oliver between them, wondering where they were going, and what branch of manufacture he would be instructed in, first. The pace at which they went, was such a very lazy, ill-looking saunter, that Oliver soon began to think his companions were going to deceive the old gentleman, by not going to work at all. The Dodger had a vicious pro@pensity, too, of pulling the caps from the heads of small boys and tossing them down areas while Charley Bates exhibited some very loose notions concerning the rights of property, by pilfering divers apples and onions from the stalls at the kennel sides, and thrusting them into pockets which were so surprisingly capacious, that they seemed to undermine his whole suit of clothes in every direction. These things looked so bad, that Oliver was on the point of declaring his intention of seeking his way back, in the best way he could@ when his thoughts were suddenly directed into another channel, by a very mysterious change of behaviour on the part of the Dodger. They were just emerging from a narrow court not far from the open square in Clerken@well, which is yet called, by some strange perversion of terms, 'The Green' when the Dodger made a sudden stop@ and, laying his finger on his lip, drew his companions back again, with the greatest caution and circumspection. 'What@'s the matter?' demanded Oliver. 'Hush!' replied the Dodger. 'Do you see that old cove at the book-stall?' 'The old gentleman over the way?' said Oliver. 'Yes, I see him.' 'He'll do,' said the Do@ger. 'A prime plant,' observed Master Charley Bates. Oliver looked from one to the other, with the greatest surprise@ but he was not permitted to make any inquiries@ for the two boys walked stealthily across the road, and slunk close be@hind the old gentleman towards whom his attention had been directed. Oliver walked a few paces after them@ and, not knowing whether to advance or retire, stood looking on in silent amazement. The old gentleman was a very respectable-looking personage, with a powdered head and gold spectacles. He was dressed in a bottle-green coat with a black velvet collar wore white trousers  a smart bamboo cane under his arm. He had taken up a book from the stall, and there he stood, reading away, as hard as if he were in his elbow-chair, in his own study. It @is very possible that he fancied himself there, indeed for it was plain, from his @@@@@@abstrac@tion, that he saw not the book-stall, nor the street, nor the boys, nor, in short, anything but the book itself@ which he was reading straight through@ turning over the lea@@f when he got to the bottom of a page, beginning at the top line of the next one, and going regularly on, with the greatest interest and eagerness. What was Oliver's horror and alarm as he stood a few paces off, looking on with his eye@lids as wide open as they would possibly go, to see the Dodger plunge his hand into th@e old gentleman's pocket, and draw from thence a handkerchief!  to Charley Bates@ and   running away round the corner at full speed! In an@ instant the whole mystery of the han@kerchiefs, and the watches, and the jewels, and the Jew, rushed upon the boy's mind. He stood, for a moment, with the blood so ting@ling through all his veins from terror, that he felt as if he were in a burning fire then, confused and frightened, he took to his heels@ and, not knowing what he did, made off as fast as he could lay his feet to the ground. This was all done in a minute's space. In@ the very instant when Oliver began to run, the old gentleman, putting his hand to his pocket, and missing his handkerchief, turned sharp round. Seeing the boy scudding away at such a rapid pace, he very naturally concluded him to be the depredator@ and@ shouting 'Stop thief!' with all his might, made off after him, book in hand. But the old gentleman was not the only per@son who raised the hue-and-cry. The Dodger and Master Bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street, had merely retired into the very first doorway round the corner. They no sooner heard the cry, and saw Oliver running, than, guessing exactly how the matter stood, they issued fort@@h@@ with great promptitude@ and, shouting 'Stop thief!' too, joined in the pursuit like good citizens. Although Oliver had been brought up by philosophers, he was not theoretically acquaint@ed with the@@ beautiful axiom that self-preser@vation is the first law of nature. If he had been, perhaps he would have been prepared for this. Not being prepared, however, it alarmed him the more so away he went like the wind, with the old gentleman and the two boys roar@ing and shouting behind him. 'Stop thief@! Stop thief!' There is a magic in the sound. The tradesman leaves his coun@ter, and the car-man his waggon the butcher throws down his tray@ the baker his basket@ the milk@man his pail@ the errand-boy his par@cel@s the school-boy his marbles@ the paviour his pick@axe@ the child his battledore. Away they run, pell-mell, helter-skelter, slap-dash@ tearing, yelling, @@@@screaming, knocking down the passengers as they turn the corners, rousing up the dogs, and astonishing the fowls and streets, squa@res, and courts, re-echo with the sound. 'Stop thief! Stop thief!' The cry is taken up by a hundred voices, and the crowd accu@mulate at every turning. Away they fly, splashing through the mud, and rattling along the pavements up go the windows, out run the people, onward bear the mob, a whole audience desert Punch in the very thickest of the plot, and, joining the rushing throng, swell the shout, and lend fresh vigour to the cry, 'Stop thief@! Stop thief!' 'Stop thief@! Stop thief!' There is a  deeply implanted in the human breast. One wretched breathless child, panting with exhaustion@ terror in his looks@ agony in his eyes large drops of perspira@tion streaming down his fac@e strains every nerve to make head upon his pursuers and as they follow on his track, and gain upon him every instant, they hail his decreasing strength with  'Stop thief!' Ay, stop him for God's sake, were it only in mercy! Stopped at last! A clever blow@@@@@. He is down upon the pavement@ and the crowd eager@ly gather round him each new comer, jostling and struggling with the others to catch a glimpse. 'Stand aside!' 'Give him a little air!' 'Nonsense@! he don't deserve it.' 'Where's the gentleman?' 'Here his is, coming down the street.' 'Make room there for the gentleman!' 'Is this the boy, sir!' 'Yes.' Oliver lay, covered with mud and dust, and bleeding from the mouth, looking wildly round upon the heap of faces that surrounded him, when the old gentleman was officiously dragged and pushed into the circle by the foremost of the pursuers.  gentleman, 'he has hurt himself.' '_I_ did that, sir,' said a great lubberly fellow, stepping forward 'and preciously I cut my knuckle agin' his mouth. I stopped him, sir.' The follow touched his hat with a grin, ex@pecting something for his pains but, the old gentleman, eyeing him with an expression of dislike, look@@ anxiously round, as if he con@templated running away himself which it is @@very possible he might have attempted to do, and thus have afforded another chase, had not a police officer who is generally the last person to arrive in such cases at that moment made his way through the crowd, and seized Oliver by the collar. 'Co@me, get up,' said the man, roughly. 'It wasn't me indeed, sir. Indeed, indeed, it was two other boys,' said Oliver, clasping his hands passionately, and looking round. 'They are here somewhere.' 'Oh no, they ain't,' said the officer. He meant this to be ironical, but it was true be@sides@ for the Dodger and Charley Bates had filed off down the first convenient court they came to. 'Co@me, get up!' 'Don't hurt him,' said the old gentleman, compassionately. 'Oh no, I won't hurt him,' replied the officer, tearing his jacket half off his back, in proof thereof. 'Come, I know you it won't do. Will you stand upon your legs, you young devil?' Oliver, who could hardly stand, made a shift to raise himself @@on his feet, and was at once lugged along the streets by the jacket-collar, at a rapid pace. The gentleman walked on with them by the officer's side and as many of the crowd as  a little a@head, and stared back at Oliver from time to time. The boys shouted in triumph@ and on they went.   had been committed within the district, and indeed in the immediate neighbo@r@hood of, a very notorious metropolitan police office. The crowd had only the satisfaction of accompanying Oliver through two or three streets, and down a place called Mutton Hill, when he was led beneath a low arch@way, and up a dirty court, into this dispensary of sum@mary justice, by the back way. It was a small paved yard into which they turned and here they encountered a stout man with a bunch of whiskers on his face, and a bunch of keys in his hand. 'What's the matter now?' said the man carelessly. 'A young fogle-hunter,' replied the man who had Oliver in charge. 'Are you the party that@'s been robbed, sir?' inquired the man with the keys. 'Yes, I am,' replied the old gentleman 'but I am not sure that this boy actually took the handkerchief. I--I would rather not press the case.' 'Must go before the magistrate now, sir,' replied the man. 'His worship will be disen@gaged in half a minute. Now, young gallows!' This was an invitation for Oliver to enter through a door which he unlocked as he spoke, and which led into a stone cell. Here he was searched@ and@ nothing being found upon him, locked up. This cell was in shape and size something like an area cellar, only not so light. It was most intolerably dirty@ for it was Monday morning@ and it had been tenanted by six drunken people, who had been locked up, elsewhere, since Saturday night. But this is lit@tle. In our station-houses, men and women are every night confined on the most trivial charges--the word is worth noting--in dun@geons, compared with which, those in Newgate, occupied by the most atrocious felons, tried, found guilty, and under sentence of death, are palaces. Let any one who doubts this, com@pare the two. The old gentleman looked almost as rueful as Oliver when the key grated in the lock. He turned with a sigh to the book, which had been the innocent cause of all this disturbance. 'There is something in that boy's face,' said the old gentleman to himself as he walked slowly away, tapping his chin with the cover of the book, in a thoughtful manner 'something that touches and interests me. _Can_ he be in@nocent@? He looked like--Bye the bye,' exclaimed the old gentleman, halting very ab@ruptly, and staring up into the sky, @@'Bless my soul!--where have I seen something like that look before?' After musing for some minutes, the old gen@tleman walked, with the same meditative face, into a back ante@room opening from the yard and there, retiring into a corner, called up be@fore his mind's eye a vast amphitheatre of faces over which a dusky curtain had hung for many years. 'No,' said the old gentleman, shaking his head 'it must be imagination. He wandered over them again. He had ca@lled them into view, and it was not easy to re@place the shroud that had so long concealed them. There were the faces of friends, and foes, and of many that had been almost strangers@ peering intrusively from the crowd there were the faces of young and blooming girls that were now old women there were face@s that the grave had changed@ but which the mind, superior to its power, still dressed in their old freshness and beauty, call@ing back the lustre of the eyes, the brightness of the smile, the beaming of the soul through its mask of clay, and whispering of beauty beyond the tomb, changed but to be heightened, and taken from earth only to be set up as a light, to shed a soft and gentle glow upon the path to Heaven. But the old gentleman could recall no one countenance of which Oliver's features bore a trace. So, he heaved a sigh over the recollections he@@@@ awakened@ and being, happily for him@self, an absent old gentleman, buried them again in the pages of the musty book. He was roused by a touch on the shoulder, and a request from the man with the keys to follow him into the office. He closed his book hastily@ and was at once ushered into the im@posing presence of the renowned Mr. Fang. The office was a front parlour, with a pa@nelled wall. Mr. Fang sat behind a bar, at the upper end and on one side the door@ was a sort of wooden pen in which poor little Oliver was already deposited@ trembling very much at the awfulness of the scene. Mr. Fang was a middle-sized man, with no great quantity of hair, and what he had, grow@ing on the back and sides of his head. His face was stern, and much flushed. If he were really not in the habit of drinking rather more than was exactly good for him, he might have brought a@@@ction against his countenance for libel, and have recovered heavy damages. The old gentleman bowed respectfully@ and@ advancing to the magistrate's desk, said, suiting the action to the word, 'That is my name and address, sir.' He then withdrew a pace or two and, with another polite and gentlemanly inclination of the head, waited to be questioned. Now, it so happened that Mr. Fang was at that moment perusing a leading article in a newspaper of the morning, adverting to some recent decision of his, and commending him, for the three hundred and fiftieth time, to the special and particular notice of the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He was out of temper@ and he looked up with an angry scowl. 'Who are you?' said Mr. Fang. The old gentleman pointed, with some sur@prise, to his card. 'Officer!' said Mr. Fang, tossing the card contemptuously away with the newspaper. 'Who is this fellow?' 'My name, sir,' said the old gentleman, speaking _like_ a gentleman, 'my name, sir, is Brownlow. Permit me to inquire the name of the magistrate who offers a gratuitous and unprovoked insult to a respectable person, under the protection of the bench.' Saying this, Mr. Brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford him the required information. 'Officer!' said Mr. Fang, throwing the paper on one side, 'what's this fellow charged with?' 'He's not charged at all, your worship,' replied the officer. 'He appears against this boy, your worship.' His worship knew this perfectly well but it was a good annoyance, and a safe one. 'Appears against the boy, does he?' said Mr. Fang, surveying Mr. Brownlow contemptuously from head to foot. 'Swear him!' 'Before I am sworn, I must beg to say one word,' said Mr. Brownlow 'and that is, that I really never, without actual experience, could have believed--' 'Hold your tongue, sir!' said Mr. Fang, peremptorily. 'I will not, sir!' replied the old gentle@man. 'Hold your tongue this instant, or I@'ll have you turned out of the office!' said Mr. Fang. 'You@'re an insolent@ impertinent fellow. How dare you bully a magistrate!' 'What!' exclaimed the old gentleman, reddening. 'Swear this person!' said Fang to the clerk. 'I'll not hear another word. Swear him.' Mr. Brownlow's indignation was greatly roused but@  he might only injure the boy by giving vent to it, he sup@pressed his feelings@ and submitted to be sworn at once. 'Now,' said Fang, 'what@'s the charge against this boy? What have you got to say, sir?' 'I was standing at a book@stall--' Mr. Brownlow began. 'Hold your tongue, sir,' said Mr. Fang. 'Policeman@! Where's the policeman@? Here, swear this policeman. Now, policeman, what is this?' The policeman, with becoming humility, re@lated how he had taken the charge@ how he had searched Oliver, and found nothing on his per@son and how that was all he knew about it. 'Are there anywitnesses?' inquired Mr. Fang. 'None, your worship,' replied the police@man. Mr. Fang sat silent for some minutes, and then, turning round to the prosecutor, said in a towering passion. 'Do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is, @@@man, or do you not@? You have been sworn. Now, if you stand there, refusing to give evidence, I'll punish you for disrespect to the bench I will, by--' By what, or by whom, nobody knows, for the clerk and jailor coughed very loud, just at the right moment@ and the former dropped a heavy book upon the floor, thus preventing the word from being heard--accident@@ly, of course. With many interruptions, and repeated in@sults, Mr. Brownlow contrived to state his case observing that, in the surprise of the mo@ment, he had run after the boy because he saw him running away@ and expressing his hope that, if the magistrate should believe him, although not actually the thief, to be connected with the thieves, he would deal as leniently with him as justice would allow. 'He has been hurt already,' said the old gentleman in conclusion. 'And I fear,' he added, with great energy, looking towards the bar, 'I really fear that he is @@@@@ yes, I dare say!' said Mr. Fang, with a sneer. 'Come, none of your tricks here, you young vagabond they won't do. What@'s your name?' Oliver tried to reply@ but his tongue failed him. He was deadly pale@ and the whole place seemed turning round and round. 'What's your name, you hardened scoun@drel? Mr. Fang. 'Officer, what@'s his name?' This was addressed to a bluff old fellow, in a striped waistcoat, who was standing by the bar. He bent over Oliver, and repeated the inquiry but finding him really incapable of understand@ing the question@ and knowing that his not replying would only infuriate the magistrate the more, and add to the severity of his sentence@ he hazarded a guess. 'He says his name's Tom White, your worship,' said th@e kind-hearted thief-taker. 'Oh, he won't speak out, won't he?' said Fang. 'Very well, very well. Where does he live?@' 'Where he can, your worship,' replied the officer@ again pretending to receive Oliver's answer. 'Has he any parents?' inquired Mr. Fang. 'He says they died in his infancy, your worship,' replied the officer@ hazarding the usual reply. At this point of the inquiry, Oliver raised his head@ and, looking round with imploring eyes, murmured a feeble prayer for a draught of water. 'Stuff and nonsense!' said Mr. Fang 'don@'t try to make a fool of me.' 'I think he really is ill, your worship,' remonstrated the officer. 'I know better,' said Mr.  care of him, officer,' said the old gentleman, raising his hands instinctively 'he'll  'Stand away, officer,' cried  him, if he likes.' Oliver availed himself of the kind permission, and fell fe@@@ll to the floor in a fainting fit. The men in the office looked at each other, but no one dared to stir. 'I knew he was shamming,' said Fang, as if this were incontestable proof of the fact. 'Let him lie there he'll soon be tired of that.' 'How do you propose to deal with the case, sir?' inquired the clerk in a low voice. 'Summarily,' replied Mr. Fang. 'He stands committed for three months--hard la@bour of course. Clear the office.' The door was opened for this purpose, and a couple of men were preparing to carry the in@sensible boy to his cell@ when an elderly man of decent but poor appearance, clad in an old suit of black, rushed hastily into the office, and advanced towards the bench. 'Stop, stop! don't take him away! For Heaven's sake stop a moment!' cried the new comer, breathless with haste. Although the presiding Geni@@@i in such an office as this, exercise a summary and arbitrary power over the liberties, the good name, the character, almost the lives, of Her Majesty's subjects, expecially of the poorer class and although, within such walls, enough fantastic tricks are daily played to make the angels  are closed to the pub@lic, save through the medium of the daily press. Mr. Fang was consequently not a little indig@nant to see an unbidden guest enter in such irreverent disorder. 'What is this? Who is this? Turn this man out. Clear the office!' cried Mr. Fang. 'I _will_ speak,' cried the man 'I will not be turned out. I saw it all. I keep the book-stall. I demand to be sworn. I will not be put down. Mr. Fang, you must hear me. You must not refuse, sir.' The man was right. His manner  and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up.@@@ @' Mr. Fang. with a very ill grace. 'Now, man, what have you got to say?' 'This,' said the man 'I saw three boys two others and the prisoner here loitering on the opposite side of the way, when this gentle@man was reading. The robbery was committed by another boy. I saw it don@e and I saw that this boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by it.' Having by this time recovered a little breath, the worthy book-stall keeper proceeded to relate, in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of the robbery. 'Why didn't you come here before?' said Fang, after a pause. 'I hadn't a soul to mind the shop,' replied the man. 'Everybody wh@o could have @helped me, had joined in the pursuit. I could get nobody till five minutes ago@ and I've run here all the way.' 'The prosecutor was reading, was he?' inquired Fang, after another pause. 'Yes,' replied the man. 'The very book he has in his hand.' 'Oh, that book, eh?' said Fang. 'Is it paid for?' 'No, it is not,' replied the man, with a smile. 'Dear me, I forgot all about it!' exclaimed the absent old gentleman, innocently. 'A nice person to prefer a charge against a poor boy!' said Fang, with a comical effort to look humane. 'I consider, sir, that you have obtained possession of that book, under very sus@picious and disreputable circumstances@ and you may think yourself very fortunate that the owner of the property declines to prosecute. Let this be a lesson to you, my man, or the law will overtake you yet. The boy is dis@charged. Clear the office!' 'D--n me!' cried the old gentleman, burst@ing out with the rage he had kept down so long,  the office!' said the magistrate. 'Officers, do you hear? Clear the office!' The mandate was obeyed@ and the indignant Mr. Brownlow was conveyed out, with the book in one hand, and the bamboo cane in the other in a perfect phrenzy of rage and defi@ance. He reached the yard@  vanished in a moment. Little Oliver Twist lay on his back on the pavement, with his shirt unbuttoned, and his temples bathed with water his face a dead@ly white@ and a cold tremble convulsing his whole frame. 'Poor boy, poor boy!' said Mr. Brownlow, bending over him. 'Call a coach, somebody, pray. Directly!' A coach was obtained, and Oliver@ having been carefully laid on the seat, the old gentle@man got in and sat himself on the other. 'May I accompany you?' said the book-stall keeper, looking in. 'Bless me, yes, my dear @si@r,' said Mr. Brownlow quickly. 'I forgot you. Dear, dear! I have this unhappy book still! Jump in. Poor fellow! There@'s no time to lose.' The book-stall keeper got into the coach@ and away they drove. Chapter  same ground as that which Oliver had traversed when he first entered London in company with the Dodger@ and, turning a different way when it reached the Angel at Islington, stopped at length before a neat house, in a quiet shady street near Pentonville. Here, a bed was pre@pared, without loss of time, in which Mr. Brown@low saw his young charge carefully and com@fortably deposited and here, he was tended with a kindness and solicitude th@at knew no bounds. But, for many days, Oliver remained insensible to all the goodness of his new friends. The sun rose and sank, and rose and sank again, and many times after that@ and still the boy lay stretched @@on his uneasy bed, dwindling away beneath the dry and wasting heat of  The worm does not@@@@ work more surely on the dead body, than does this slow creeping fire upon the living frame. Weak, and thin, and pallid, he awoke at last from what seemed to have been a long and troubled dream. Feebly raising himself in the bed, with his head resting on his trembling arm, he looked anxiously around. 'What room is this? Where have I been brought to?' said Oliver. 'This is not the place I went to sleep in.' He uttered these words in a feeble voice, being very faint and weak but they were over@heard at once@@@@. The curtain at the bed's head was hastily drawn back, and a motherly old lady, very neatly and precisely dressed, rose as she undrew it, from an arm-chair close by, in which she had been sitting at needle-work. 'Hush, my dear,' said the old lady softly. 'You must be very quiet, or you will be ill again@ and you have been very bad,--as bad as bad could be, pretty nigh. Lie down again @there's a dear!' With those words, the old lady very gently placed Oliver's head upon the pillow@ and, smoothing back his hair from his forehead, looked so kindly and lovingng in his face, that he could not help placing his little withered hand @@in hers, and drawing it round his neck. 'Save us!' said the old lady, with tears in @her eyes. 'What a grateful little dear it is. Pretty creetur! What would his mother feel if she had sat by him as I have, and could see him now!' 'Perhaps she does see me,' whispered Oli@ver, folding his hands together 'perhaps she has sat by me@@@@@@@. I almost feel as if she had.' 'That was the fever, my dear,' said the old lady mildly. 'I suppose it was,' replied  heaven is a long way off@ and they are too happy there, to come down to the bedside of a poor boy. But if she knew I was ill, she must have pitied me, even there@ for she was very ill herself before she died. She can't know anything about me though,' added Oliver after a moment's silence. @@@'If she had seen me hurt, it would have made her sorrowful and her face has always looked sweet and happy, when I have dreamed of her.' The old lady made no reply to this@ but wiping her eyes first, and her spectacles, which lay on the counterpane, afterwards, as if they were part and parcel of those features, brought some cool stuff for Oliver to drink@ and then, patting him on the cheek, told him he must lie very quiet, or he would be ill again. So, Oliver kept very still@ partly because he was anxious to obey the kind old lady in all things@ and partly, to tell the truth, because he was completely exhausted with what he had already said. He soon fell into a gentle doze, from which he was awakened by the light of a candle@ which, being brought near the bed, showed him a gentleman@ with a very large and loud-ticking gold watch in his hand, who felt his pulse, and said he was a great deal better. 'You _are_ a great deal better, are you not, my dear?' said the gentleman. 'Yes, thank you, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Yes, I know you are,' said the gentleman 'You're hungry too, an't you?' 'No, sir,' answered Oliver. 'Hem!' said the gentleman. 'No, I know you@'re not. He is not hungry, Mrs. Bedwin,' said the gentleman@ looking very wise. The old lady made a respectful inclination of the head, which seemed to say that she thought the doctor was a very clever man. The doctor appeared@@@@@ much of the same opinion him@self. 'You feel sleepy, don't you, my dear?' said the doctor. 'No, sir,' replied Oliver. 'No,' said the doctor, with a very shrewd and satisfied look. 'You're not sleepy. Nor thirsty. Are you?' 'Yes, sir, rather thirsty,' answered Oliver. 'Just as I expected, Mrs. Bedwin,' said the doctor. 'It's very natural that he should be  You may give him a little tea, ma'am, and some dry toast without any butter. Don't keep him too warm, ma'am but be careful that you don't let him be too cold will you have the goodness?' The old lady dropped a curtsey@@@. The doctor, after tasting the cool stuff, and express@ing a qualified approval @@of it, hurried away his boots creaking in a very important and wealthy manner as he went down@stairs. Oliver dozed off again, soon after this@ @@@@when he awoke, it was nearly twelve o'clock. The old lady tenderly bade him good-night s@hortly afterwards, and left him in charge of a fat old woman who had just co@me@ bringing with her, in a little bundle, a small Prayer Book and a large nightcap. Putting the latter on her head@ and the former on the table, the old woman, after telling Oliver that she had co@me to sit up with him, drew her chair close to the fire and went off into a series of short naps, chequered at frequent intervals with sun@dry tumblings forward, and divers moans and chokings. These, however, had no worse effect than causing her to rub her nose very hard, and then fall asleep again. And thus the night crept slowly on. Oliver lay awake for some time, counting the little cir@cles of light which the reflection of the rushlight-shade threw upon the ceiling@ or tracing with his languid eyes the intricate pattern of the paper on the wall. The darkness and the deep still@ness of the room were very solem@@@n@ as they brought into the boy's mind the thought that death had been hovering there, for many days and nights, and might yet fill it with the gloom and dread of his awful presence, he turn@ed his face upon the pillow, and fervently prayed to Heaven. Gradually, he fell into that deep tranquil sleep which ease from recent suffering alone im@parts that calm and peaceful rest which it is pain to wake from. Who, if this were death, would be roused again to all the struggles and turmoils of life@ to all its cares for the present@ its anxieties for the future@ @@@@@ than all, its weary recollections of the past! It had been bright day, for hours, when Oliver opened hisp he felt cheerful and happy. The crisis of the disease was safely past@@@@. He belonged to the world again. In three days' time he was able to sit in an easy-chair, well propped up with pillows and, as he was still too weak to walk, Mrs. Bedwin had him carried down@stairs into the little house@keeper's room, which belonged to re, by the fire-side, the good old lady sat herself down too@ and, being in a state of considerable delight at seeing him so much better, forthwith began to cry most violently. 'Never mind me, my dear,' said the old lady 'I'm only having a regular good cry. There it's all over now@ and I'm quite com@fortable.' 'You@'re very, very kind to me, ma'am,' said Oliver. 'Well, never you mind that, my dear,' said the old lady 'that's got nothing to do with your broth@ and it's full time you had it@ for the doctor says Mr. Brownlow may come in to see you this morning@ and we must get up our best looks, because the better we look, the more he'll be pleased.' And with this, the old lady applied herself to warming up, in a little saucepan, a basin full of broth@ strong  to furnish an ample dinner, when reduced to the regulation strength, for three hundred and fifty paupers, at th@@@e@@ lowest compu@tation. 'Are you fond of pictures, dear?' inquired the old lady, seeing that Oliver had fixed his eyes, most intently, on a portrait which hung against the wall just opposite his chair. 'I don't quite know, ma'am,' said Oliver, without taking his eyes from the canvas 'I have seen so few that I hardly know. What a beautiful, mild face that lady's is!' 'Ah!' said the old lady, 'painters always make ladies out prettier than they are, or they wouldn't get any custom, child. The man that invented the machine for taking likenesses might have known that would never succeed it's a deal too honest. A deal,' said the old lady, laughing very heartily at her own acute@ness. 'Is--is that a likeness, ma'am?' said Oliver. 'Yes,' said the old lady, looking up for a moment from the broth 'that@'s a portrait.' 'Whose, ma'am?' asked Oliv@@@ 'Why, really, my dear, I don't know,' answered the old lady in a good-humoured manner. 'It@'s not a likeness of anybody that you or I know, I expect. It seems to strike your fancy, dear.' 'It is so@ Oliver. 'Why, sure you@'re not afraid of it?' said the old lady@ observing in great surprise, the look of awe with which the child regarded the paint@ing. 'Oh no, no,' returned Oliver quickly 'but the eyes look so sorrowful@ and where I sit, they seem fixed upon me. It makes my heart beat,' added Oliver in a low voice, 'as if it was alive, and wanted to speak to me, but couldn't.' 'Lord save us!' exclaimed the old lady, starting 'don't talk in that way, child. You're weak and nervous after your illness. Let me wheel your chair round to the other side@ and then you won't see it. There!' said the old lady, suiting the action to the word 'you don't see it now, at all events.' Oliver _did_ see it in his mind's eye as distinct@ly as if he had not altered his position@ but he thought it better not to worry the kind old lady so he smiled gently when she looked at him@ and Mrs. Bedwin, satisfied that he felt more comfortable, salted and broke bits of toasted bread into the broth, with all the bustle befitting so solemn a preparation. Oliver got through it with extraordinary expedition. @He had scarcely swallowed the last spoonful, when there came a soft rap at the door. 'Co@me in,' said the old lady and in walked Mr. Brownlow. Now, the old gentleman came in as brisk as need be but, he had no sooner raised his spec@tacles on his forehead, and thrust his hands behind the skirts of his dressing-gown to take a good long look at Oliver, than his countenance underwent a very great variety of odd contor@tions. Oliver looked very worn and shadowy from sickness, and made an ineffectual attempt to stand up, out of respect to his benefactor, which terminated in his sinking back into the chair again and the fact is, if the truth must be told, that Mr. Brownlow's heart, being large enough for any six ordinary old gentlemen of humane disposition, forced a supply of tears into his eyes, by some hydraulic process which we are not sufficiently philosophical to be in a con@dition to explain. 'Poor boy, poor boy!' said Mr. Brownlow, clearing his throat. 'I'm rather hoarse this morning, Mrs. Bedwin. I'm afraid I have caught cold.' 'I hope not, sir,' said Mrs. Bedwin. 'Everything you have had, has been well aired, sir.' 'I don't know, Bedwin. I don't know,' said Mr. Brownlow 'I rather think I had a damp napkin at dinner-time yesterday but never mind that. How do you feel, my dear?' 'Very happy, sir,' replied Oliver. 'And very grateful indeed, sir, for your goodness to me.' 'Good b@y,' said Mr. Brownlow, stoutly. 'Have you given him any nourishment, Bed@win? Any slops, eh?' 'He has just had a basin of beautiful strong broth, sir,' replied Mrs. Bedwin@ drawing her@self up slightly, and laying @@strong emphasis on the last word@ to intimate that between slops, and broth will compounded, there existed no affinity or connection whatsoever. 'Ugh!' said Mr. Brownlow, with a slight shudder 'a couple of glasses of port wine would have done him a great deal more good. @Wouldn't they, Tom White, eh?' 'My name is Oliver, sir,' replied the little invalid with a look of great astonishment. 'Oliver,' said Mr. Brownlow 'Oliver what@? Oliver White, eh?' 'No, sir, Twist, Oliver Twist.' 'Queer name!' said the old gentleman. 'What made you tell the magistrate your name was White?' 'I never told him so, sir,' returned Oliver in amazement. This sounded so like a falsehood, that the old gentleman looked somewhat sternly in Oli@ver's face. It was impossible to doubt him there was truth in every one of its thin and sharpened lineaments. 'Some mistake,' said Mr. Brownlow. But, although his motive for looking steadily at Oliver no longer existed, the old idea of the resemblance between his features and some familiar face came upon him so strongly, that he could not withdraw his gaze. 'I hope you are not angry with me, sir?' said Oliver, raising his eyes beseechingly. 'No, no,' replied the old  this@? Bedwin, look, look there!' As @he spoke, he pointed hastily to the pi@cture @@over Oliver's head, and then to the boy's face. There was its living copy. The eyes, the head, the mouth every feature was the same. The expression was, for the instant, so precisely alike, that the minutest line seemed copied  Oliver knew not the cause of this sudden exclamation@  enough to bear the start it gave him,@@@@ he fainted away.  hue-and-cry which was raised at Oliver's heels, in conse@quence of their executing an illegal conveyance of Mr. Brownlow's personal property, as has been already described@,  and becoming regard for themselves and forasmuch as the freedom of the subject and the liberty of the individual are among the first and proudest boasts of a true-hearted Eng@lishman, so, I need hardly beg the reader to ob@serve, that this action should tend to exalt them in the opinion of all public and patriotic men, in almost as great a degree as this strong proof of their anxiety for their own preservation and safety goes to corroborate and confirm the little code of laws which certain profound and sound-judging philosophers have laid down as the main-springs of all Nature's deeds and actions the said philosophers very wisely reducing the good lady's proceedings to matters of maxim and theory@ and, by a very neat and pretty compliment to her exalted wisdom and under@standing, putting entirely out of sight any con@siderations of heart, or generous impulse and  matters totally beneath a female who is acknowledged by universal admission to be@@@ far @above the numerous little foibles and weak@nesses of her sex. If I wanted any further proof of the strictly philosophical nature of the conduct of these young gentlemen in their very delicate predica@ment, I should at once find it in the fact also recorded in a foregoing part of this narrative , of their quitting the pursuit, when the general at@tention was fixed upon Oliver@ and making im@mediately for their home by the shortest possi@ble cut@@@. Although I do not mean to assert that it is usually the practice of renowned and learned sages@@@@@@, to shorten the road to any great conclusion@ their course indeed being rather to lengthen the distance, by various circumlocutions and discursive staggerings, like unto those in which drunken men under the pressure of a too mighty flow of ideas, are prone to indulge@ still, I do mean to say, and do say distinctly, that it is the invariable practice of many mighty philoso@phers, in carrying out their theories, to evince great wisdom and foresight in providing against every possible contingency which can be sup@posed at all likely to affect themselves. Thus, to do a great right, you may do a little wrong@ and you may take any means which the end to be attained, will justify the amount of the right, or the amount of the wrong, or indeed the dis@tinction between the two, being left entirely to the philosopher concerned, to be settled and determined by his clear, comprehensive, and im@partial view of his own particular case. It was not until the two boys had scoured, with great rapidity, through a most intricate maze of narrow streets and courts, that they ventured to  a low and dark archway. Having remained si@lent here, just long enough to recover breath to speak, Master Bates uttered an exclamation of amusement and delight@ and, bursting into an uncontrollable fit of laughter, flung himself upon a door@step, and rolled thereon in a transport of mirth. 'What's the matter?' inquired the Dodger. 'Ha! ha! ha!' roared Charley Bates. 'Hold your noise,' remonstrated the Dod@ger, looking cautiously round. 'Do you want to be grabbed, stupid?' 'I can't help it,' said Charley, 'I can't help it! To see him splitting away at that pace, and cutting round the corners, and knock@ing up again@' the posts, and starting on again as if he was made of iron as well as them, and me with the wipe in my pocket, singing out @@@@@@@@ him--oh, my eye!' The vivid imagina@tion of Master Bates presented the scene before him in too strong colours. As he arrived at this apostrophe, he again rolled upon the door-step, and laughed louder than before. 'What'll Fagin say?' inquired the Dodger@ taking advantage of the next interval of breath@lessness on the part of his friend to propound the question. 'What?' repeated Charley Bates. 'Ah, what?' said the Dodger. 'Why, what should he say?' inquired Charley@ stopping rather suddenly in his merri@ment@ for the Dodger's manner was impressive. 'What should he say?' Mr. Dawkins whistled for a couple of mi@nutes@ @@@@then, taking off his hat, scratched his head, and nodded thrice. 'What do you mean?' said Charley. 'Toor rul lol loo, gammon and spinnage, the frog he wouldn't, and high cockolorum,' said the Dodger@ with a slight sneer on his in@tellectual countenance. This was explanatory, but not satisfactory. Master Bates felt it so@ and again said, 'What do you mean?' The Dodger made no reply@ but putting his hat on again, and gathering the skirts of his long-tailed coat under his arm@, thrust his tongue into his cheek, slapped the bridge of his nose some half-dozen times in a familiar but ex@pressive manner, and turning on his heel, slunk down the court. Master Bates followed, with a thoughtful countenance. The noise of footsteps on the creaking stairs, a few minutes after the occurrence of this conversation, roused the merry old gentleman as he sat over the fire with a saveloy and a small loaf in his @@@@@hand@ a pocket-knife in his right@ and a pewter pot on the trivet. There was a rascally smile on his white face as he turned round, and@ look@ing sharply out from under his thick red eye@brows, bent his ear towards the door, and  how's this?' muttered the Jew@ changing countenance 'only two of 'em? Where@'s the third@?@@ They can't have got into trouble. Hark@@!' The footsteps approached nearer they reach@ed the landing. The door was slowly opened@ and the Dodger and Charley Bates entered@@@, closing it behind them.  menacing look. 'Where's the boy?' The young thieves eyed their preceptor as if they were alarmed at his violence@ and looked uneasily at each other. But they made no reply. 'What's become of the boy?' said the Jew, seizing the Dodger tightly by the collar, and threatening him with horrid imprecations. 'Speak out, or I'll throttle you!' Mr. Fagin looked so very much in earnest, that Charley Bates, who deemed it prudent in all cases to be on the safe side, and who conceived it by no means improbable that it might be his turn to be throttled second, dropped upon his knees, and raised a loud, well-sustained, and continuous roar--something between a@ @@ma@d bull and a speaking trumpet. 'Will you speak?' thundered the Jew@ shaking the Dodger so much that his keeping in the big coat at all, seemed perfectly mira@culous. 'Why, the traps have got him, and that's all about it,' said the Dodger, sullenly. 'Come, let go o' me, will you!' And, swinging himself, at one jerk, clean out of the big coat, which he left in the Jew's hands, the Dodger snatched up the toasting fork, and made a pass at the merry old gentleman's waistcoat@ which, if it had taken effect, would have let a little more merri@ment out than could have been easily  Jew stepped back in this emergency, with more agility than could have been antici@pated in a man of his apparent decrepitude@ and, seizing up the pot, prepared to hurl it at his assailant's head. But Charley Bates, at this moment, calling his attention by a per@fectly terrific howl, he suddenly altered its destination, and flung it full at that young gen@tleman. 'Why, what the blazes is in the wind now!' growled a deep voice. 'Who pitched that 'ere at me@? It@'s well it's the beer, and not the pot, as hit me, or I'd have settled somebody. I might have know'd, as nobody but an infernal, rich, plundering, thundering old Jew could afford to throw away any drink but water--and not that, unless he done the River Company every quarter. Wot's it all about, Fagin? @D--me, if my neck-handkercher an't lined with beer! Come in, you sneaking warmint wot are you stopping outside for, as if you was ashamed of your master! Come in!' The man who growled out these words, was a stoutly-built fellow of about five-and-thirty, in a black velveteen coat, very soiled drab breeches, lace-up half boots, and grey cotton stockings@ which inclosed a @@@@@bulky pair of legs, with large swelling calves --the kind of legs, which in such costume, always look in an unfinished and incomplete state without a set of fetters to garnish them. He had a brown hat on his head, and a dirty belcher handkerchief round his neck@ with the long frayed ends of which he smeared the beer from his face as he spoke. He disclos@ed, when he had done so, a broad heavy countenance with a beard of three days' growth, and two scowling eyes@ one of which displayed various parti-coloured symptoms of having been recently damaged by a blow. 'Come in, d'ye hear?' growled this  ruffian. A white shaggy dog, with his face scratched and torn in twenty dif@ferent places, skulked into the room. 'Why didn't you come in afore?' said the man. 'You@'re getting too proud to own me afore company, are you@? Lie down!' This command was accompanied with a kick, which sent the animal to the other end of the room. He appeared well used to it, how@ever for he coiled himself up in a corner@ very quietly, without uttering a sound, and@ wink@ing his very ill-looking eyes@@@@@@ twenty times in a minute, appeared to occupy himself in taking a survey of the apartment. 'What are you up to@? Ill-treating the boys, you covetous, avaricious, in-sa-ti-a-ble old fence?' said the man, seating himself delibe@rately. 'I wonder they don't murder you! I would if I was them. If I@'d been your 'pren@tice, I'd have done it long ago, and--no, I couldn't have sold you  you@'re fit for nothing but keeping as a curiousity of ugliness in a glass bottle, and I suppose they don't  large enough.' 'Hush! hush! Mr. Sikes,' said the Jew, trembling 'don't speak so loud!' 'None of your mistering,' replied the ruf@fian 'you always mean mischief when you come that. You know my name out with it! I shan't disgrace it when the time comes.' 'Well, well, then--Bill Sikes,' said the Jew, with abject humility. 'You seem out of hu@mour, Bill.' 'Perhaps I am,' replied Sikes 'I should think you w@as rather out of sorts too, unless you mean as little harm when you throw pew@ter pots about, as you do when you blab and--' 'Are you mad?' said the Jew, catching the man by the sleeve, and pointing towards the boys. Mr. Sikes contented himself with tying an imaginary knot under his left ear, and jerking his head over on the right shoulder a piece of dumb show which the Jew appeared to under@stand perfectly. He then, in cant terms, with which his whole conversation was plentifully besprinkled, but which would be quite unintelli@gible if they were recorded here, demanded a glass of liquor. 'And mind you don't poison it,' said Mr. Sikes, laying his hat upon the table. This was said in jest but if the speaker could have seen the evil leer with which the Jew bit his pale lip as he turned round to the cupboard, he might have thought the caution not wholly unnecessary, or the wish at all event@s to improve upon the distiller's ingenuity not very far from the old gentleman's merry heart. After swallowing two of three glass@@es of spirits, Mr. Sikes condescended to take some notice of the young gentlemen which gracious act led to a conversation, in which the cause and manner of Oliver's capture were circumstantially detailed, with such alterations and improvements on the truth, as to the Dodger appeared most advisable under the circumstances.@@ @'I'm afraid,' said the Jew, 'that he may say something which will get us into trouble.' 'That@'s very likely,' returned Sikes with a malicious grin. 'You@'re blowed upon, Fagin.' 'And I'm afraid, you see,' added the Jew, speaking as if he had not noticed the interrup@tion@ and regarding the other closely as he did so,--'I'm afraid that, if the game was up with us, it might be up with a good many more, and that it would come out rather worse for you than it would for me, my dear.' The man started, and  upon the Jew. But the old gentleman's shoul@ders were shrugged up to his ears@ and his eyes were vacantly staring on the opposite wall. There was a long pause. Every member of the respectable coterie appeared plunged in his own reflections@ not excepting the dog, who by a certain malicious licking of his lips seemed to be meditating an attack upon the legs of the first gentleman or lady he might encounter in the streets when he went out. 'Somebody must find out w@ot@'s been done at the office,' said Mr. Sikes in a much lower tone than he had taken since he came in. The Jew nodded assent. 'If he hasn't peached, and is committed, there's no fear till he comes out again,' said Mr. Sikes, 'and then he must be taken care on. You must get hold of him@ somehow.' Again the Jew nodded. The prudence of this line of action, indeed, was obvious@ but, unfortunately, there was one very strong objection to its being adopted@@@. This was, that the Dodger, and Charley Bates, and Fagin, and Mr. William Sikes, happened, one and all, to entertain a @@@a violent and deep@ly-rooted antipathy to going near a police-office on any ground or pretext whatever. How long they might have sat and looked at each other, in a state of uncertainty not the most pleasant of its kind, it is difficult to guess. It is not necessary to make any guesses on the subject, however for the sudden entrance of the two young ladies whom Oliver had seen on a former occasion, caused the conversation to flow afresh. 'The very thing!' said the Jew. 'Bet will go won't you, my dear?' 'Wheres?' inquired the young lady. 'Only just up to the office, my dear,' said the Jew coaxingly. It is due to the young lady to say that she did not positively affirm that she would not, but that she merely expressed an emphatic and earn@est desire to be 'blessed' if she would a polite and delicate evasion of the request, which shows the young lady to have been possessed of that natural good breeding which cannot bear to inflict upon a fellow-creature, the pain of a direct and pointed refusal. The Jew's countenance fell@@@@. He turned from this young lady, who was gaily, not to say gorgeously attired, in a red gown, green boots, and yellow curl-papers, to the other female. 'Nancy, my dear,' said the Jew in a sooth@ing manner, 'what do YOU say?' 'That it won't do so it@'s no use a-trying it on, Fagin,' replied Nancy. 'What do you mean by that@?' said Mr. Sikes, looking up in a surly manner. 'What I say, Bill,' replied the lady collect@edly. 'Why, you@'re just the very person for it,' reasoned Mr. Sikes 'nobody about here knows anything of you.' 'And as I don't want 'em to, neither,' replied Nancy in the same composed man@ner, 'it's rather more no than yes with me, Bill.' 'She@'ll go, Fagin,' said Sikes. 'No, she won't, Fagin,' sa@@id Nancy. 'Yes, she will, Fagin,' said Sikes. And Mr. Sikes was right. By dint of al@ternate threats, promises, and bribes, the @@lady in question was ultimately prevailed upon to undertake the commission. She was not, indeed, withheld by the same considerations as her agreeable friend@ for, having @@r@@@ecently removed into the neighbo@rhood of Field Lane from the remote but genteel suburb of Ratcliffe, she was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of her numerous ac@quaintances. Accordingly, with a clean white apron tied over her gown, and her curl-papers tucked up under a straw bonnet,--both articles of dress being provided from the Jew's inexhaustible stock,--Miss Nancy prepared to issue forth on her errand. 'Stop a minute, my dear,' said the Jew, producing, a little covered basket. 'Carry that in one hand. It looks more respectable, my dear.' 'Give her a door-key to carry in her t'other one, Fagin,' said Sikes 'it looks real and genivine like.' 'Yes, yes, my dear, so it does,' said the Jew, hanging a large street-door key on the fore@finger of the young lady's right hand. 'There very good! @Very good indeed, my dear!' said the Jew, rubbing his hands. 'Oh, my brother! My poor, dear, sweet, innocent little brother!' exclaimed Nancy, bursting into tears, and wringing the little bas@ket and the street-door key in an agony of dis@tress. 'What has become of him@! Where have they taken him to! Oh, do have pity, and tell me what's been done with the dear boy, gentlemen do, gentlemen, if you please, gentlemen!' Having uttered those words in a most lamen@table and heart-broken tone@ to the immeasura@ble delight of her hearers@ Miss Nancy paused, winked to the company, nodded smilingly round, and disappeared. 'Ah, she's a clever girl, my dears,' said the Jew, turning round to his young friends, and shaking his head gravely, as if in mute admonition to them to follow the bright example they had just beheld. 'She's a honour to her sex,' said Mr. Sikes, filling his glass, and smiting the table with his enormous fist. 'Here@'s her health, and wish@ing they was all like her!' While these, and many other encomiums, were being passed on the accomplished Nancy, that young lady made the best of her way to the police-office whither, notwithstanding a little natural timidity consequent upon walking through the streets alone and unprotected, she arrived in perfect safety shortly afterwards. Entering by the back way, she tapped softly with the key at one of the cell-doors, and listen@ed. There was no sound within@ so she cough@ed and listened again. Still there was no reply@ so she spoke. 'Nolly, dear?' murmured Nancy in a gen@tle voice 'Nolly?' There was nobody inside but a miserable shoeless criminal, who had been taken up for playing the flute, and who, the offence against society having been clearly proved, had been very properly committed by Mr. Fang to the House of Correction for one month@ with the appropriate and amusing remark that since he had so much breath to spare, it would be@@@@@ more wholesomely expended on the tread@mill than in a musical instrument. He made no answer@ being occupied@@@ mentally bewailing the loss of the flute, which had been confiscate@d for the use of the county so Nancy passed on to the next cell, and knocked there. 'Well!' cried a faint and feeble voice. 'Is there a little boy here?' inquired Nancy, with a preliminary sob. 'No,' replied the voice 'God forbid.' This was a vagrant of sixty-five, who was going to prison for _not_ playing the flute@ or, in other words, for begging in the streets, and doing nothing for his livelihood. In the next cell was another man, who was going to the same prison for hawking tin saucepans withoutut license thereby doing something for his living, in defiance of the Stamp-office. But, as neither of these criminals answered to the name of Oliver, or knew anything about him, Nancy made straight up to the bluff officer in the striped waistcoat@ and with the most piteous wailings and lamentations, ren@dered more piteous by a prompt and efficient use of the street-door key and the little basket, demanded her own dear brother. 'I haven't got him, my dear,' said the old man. 'Where is he?' screamed Nancy, in a dis@tracted manner. 'Why, the gentleman's got him,' replied the officer. 'What gentleman! Oh, gracious heavens! What gentleman?' exclaimed Nancy. In reply to this incoherent questioning, the old man informed the deeply affected sister that Oliver had been taken ill in the office, and discharged in consequence of a witness having proved the robbery to have been committed by another boy, not in custody and that the pro@secutor had carried him away, in an insensible condition, to his own residence@ of and concern@ing which, all the informant knew was, that it was somewhere in Pentonville, he having heard that word mentioned in the directions to the coachman. In a dreadful state of doubt and uncertainty, the agonised young woman staggered to the gate, and then, exchanging her faltering walk for a @@@@@@run, returned by the most devious and complicated route she could think of, to the domicile of the Jew. Mr. Bill Sikes no sooner heard the account of the expedition delivered, than he very hastily called up the white dog, and, putting on his hat, expeditiously departed@ without devoting any time to the formality of wishing the company good-morning. 'We must know where he is, my dears he must be found,' said the Jew@ greatly excited. 'Charley, do nothing but skulk about, till you bring home some news of him! Nancy, my dear, I must have him found. I trust to you, my dear,--to you and the Artful for everything! Stay, stay,' added the Jew, unlocking a drawer with a shaking hand 'there@'s money, my dears. I shall shut up this shop to-night. You'll know where to find me! Don't stop here a minute. Not an in@stant, my dears!' With these words, he pushed them from the room@ and carefully double-locking and barring the door behind them, drew from its place of concealment the box which he had unintention@ally disclosed to Oliver. Then, he hastily proceeded to dispose the watches and jewellery beneath his clothing. A rap at the door startled him in this occu@pation. 'Who@'s there?' he cried in a shrill  the voice of the Dodger, through the key-hole. 'What now?' cried the Jew impatiently. 'Is he to be kidnapped to the other ken, Nancy says?' inquired the  replied the Jew, 'wherever she lays hands on him. Find him, find him out, that@'s all. I shall know what to do next@ never fear.' The boy murmured a reply of intelligence@ and hurried down@stairs after his companions. 'He has not peached so far,' said the Jew as he pursued his occupation. 'If he means to blab us among his new friends, we may stop his his  soon recovering from the fainting-fit into which Mr. Brownlow's abrupt exclamation had thrown him@@@, the subject of the picture was carefully avoided, both by the old gentle@man and Mrs. Bedwin, in the conversation that ensued@ which indeed bore no reference to Oli@ver's history or prospects, but was confined to such topics as might amuse without exciting him. He was still too weak to get up to breakfast but, when he came down into the housekeeper's room next day, his first act was to cast an eager glance at the wall, in the hope of again looking on the face of the beautiful lady. His expectations were disappointed, how@ever, for the picture had been removed. 'Ah!' said the housekeeper, watching the direction of Oliver's eyes. 'It is gone, you see.' 'I see it is@ ma'am,' replied  have they taken it away?' 'It has been taken down, child, because Mr. Brownlow said, that@ as it seemed to worry you, perhaps it might prevent your getting well, you know,' rejoined the old lady. 'Oh, no, indeed. It didn't worry me, ma'am,' said Oliver. 'I liked to see it. I quite loved it.' 'Well, well!' said the old lady, good-humouredly 'you get well as fast as ever you can, dear, and it shall be hung up again. There! I promise you that! Now, let us talk about something else.' This was all the information Oliver could obtain about the picture at that time@@@@. As the old lady had been so kind to him in his illness, he endeavoured to think no more of the subject just then so he listened attentively to a great many stories she told him, about an amia@ble and handsome daughter of hers, who was married to an amiable and handsome man, and lived in the country and about a son, who was clerk to a merchant in the West Indies@ and who was, also, such a good young man, and wrote such dutiful letters home four times a-year, that it brought the tears into her eyes to talk about them. When the old lady had expati@ated, a long time, on the excellences of her chil@dren, and the merits of her kind good husband besides, who had been dead and gone, poor dear soul! just six-and-twenty years, it was time to have te@@a@. After tea she began to teach Oliver cribbage@ which he learnt as quickly as she could teac@h and at which game they played, with great interest and gravity, until it was time for the invalid to have some warm wine and water, with a slice of dry toast, and then to go cosily to bed. They were happy days, those of Oliver's reco@very. Everything was so quiet, and neat, and orderly everybody so kind and gentle@ that after the noise and turbulence in the midst of which he had always lived, it seemed like Heaven itself. He was no sooner strong enough to put his clothes on, properly, than Mr. Brown@low caused a complete new suit, and a new cap, and a new pair of shoes, to be provided for him. As Oliver was told that he might do what he liked with the old clothes, he gave them to a servant who had been very kind to him, and asked her to sell them to a Jew, and keep the money for herself. This she very readily did and, as Oliver looked out of the parlour win@dow, and saw the Jew roll them up in his bag and walk away, he felt quite delighted to think that they were safely gone, and that there was now no possible danger of his ever being able to wear them again. They were sad rags, to tell the truth and Oliver had never had a new suit before. One evening, about a week after the affair of the picture, as he was sitting talking to Mrs. Bedwin, there came a message down from Mr. Brownlow, that if Oliver Twist felt pretty well, he should like to see him in his study, and talk to him a little while. 'Bless us, and save us! Wash your hands, and let me part your hair nicely for you, child,' said Mrs. Bedwin. 'Dear heart alive! If we had known he would have asked for you, we would have put you a clean collar on, and made you as smart as sixpence!' Oliver did as the old lady bade him@ and, although she lamented grievously, meanwhile, that there was not even time to crimp the little frill that bordered his shirt-collar@ he looked so delicate and handsome, despite that important personal advantage, that she went so far as to say@ looking at him with great complacency from head to foot, that she really didn't think it would have been possible, on the longest notice, to have made much difference in him for the better. Thus encouraged, Oliver tapped at the study door@@@@@. On Mr. Brownlow calling to him to come in, he found himself in a little back room, quite full of books, with a window, looking into some pleasant little gardens. There was a table drawn up before the window, at which Mr. Brownlow was seated reading. When he When @@he saw Oliver, he pushed the book away from him, and told him to come near the table, and sit down. Oliver complied@ marvelling where the people could be found to read such a great number of books as seemed to be written to make the world wiser. Which is still a marvel to more experienced people than Oliver Twist, every day of their lives. 'There are a good many books, are there not, my boy?' said Mr. Brownlow, observing the curiosity with which Oliver surveyed the shelves that reached from the floor to the ceiling. 'A great number, sir,' replied Oliver. 'I never saw so many.' 'You shall read them, if you behave well,' said the old gentleman kindly 'and you will like that, better than looking at the outsides,--that is,@@@ some cases@ because there are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts.' 'I suppose they are those heavy ones, sir,' said Oliver, pointing to some large quartos, with a good deal of gilding about the binding. 'Not always those,' said the old gentleman, patting Oliver on the head, and smiling as he did so 'there are other equally heavy ones, though of a much smaller size. How should you like to grow up a clever man, and write books, eh?' 'I think I would rather read them, sir,' replied Oliver. 'What! wouldn't you like to be a book-writer?' said the old gentleman. Oliver considered a little while@ and at last said, he should think it would be a much better thing to be a book-seller upon which the old gentleman laughed heartily, and declared he had said a very good thing. Which Oliver felt glad to have done, though he by no means knew what it was. 'Well, well,' said the old gentleman, com@posing his features. 'Don't be afraid! We won't make an author of you, while there@'s an honest trade to be learnt, or brick-making to turn to.' 'Thank you, sir,' said Oliver@@@. At the earnest manner of his reply, the old gentleman laughed again@ and said something about a curi@ous instinct, which Oliver, not understanding, paid no very great attention to. @@@'Now,' said Mr. Brownlow, speaking if possible in a kinder, but at the same time in a much more serious manner, than Oliver had ever  'I want you to pay great attention, my boy, to what I am going to say. I shall talk to you without any reserve@ because I am sure you are @@@well able to un@derstand me, as many older persons would be.' 'Oh, don't tell@@@ you are going to send me away, sir, pray!' exclaimed Oliver, alarmed at the serious tone of the old gentleman's com@mencement! 'Don't turn me out of doors to wander in the streets again. Let me stay here, and be a servant. Don't send me back to the wretched place I came from. Have mercy upon a poor boy, sir@!' @'My dear child,' said the old gentleman, moved by the warmth of Oliver's sudden appeal 'you need not be afraid of my deserting you, unless you give me cause.' 'I never, never will, sir,' interposed Oliver. 'I hope not,' rejoined the old gentleman. 'I do not think you ever will. I have been deceived, before, in the objects whom I have endeavoured to benefit but I feel strongly disposed to trust you, nevertheless@ and I am more interested in your behalf than I can well account for, even to myself. The persons on whom I have bestowed my dearest love, lie deep in their graves but, although the happi@ness and delight of my life lie buried there too, I have not made a coffin of my heart, and sealed it up, for@ever, on my best affections. Deep affliction hasi As the old gentleman said this in a low voice@ more to himself than to his companion@ and as he remained silent for a short time afterwards@ Oli@ver sat quite  well!' said the old gentleman at length, in a more cheerful tone, 'I only say this, because you have a young heart@ and knowing that I have suffered great pain and sorrow, you will be more careful, perhaps, not to wound me again. You say you are an orphan, without a friend in the world all the inquiries I have been able to make, confirm the statement. Let me hear your story where you come from@ who brought you up@ and how you got into the company in which I found you. Speak the truth,  while I live.' Oliver's sobs checked his utterance for some minutes @@@@when he was on the point of beginning to relate how he had been brought up at the farm, and carried to the workhouse by Mr. Bumble, a peculiarly impatient little double-knock was heard at the street-door@ and the servant, running up@stairs, announced Mr. Grimwig. 'Is he coming up?' inquired Mr. Brownlow. 'Yes, sir,' replied the servant. 'He asked if there were any muffins in the house@ and, when I told him yes, he said he had co@me to tea.' Mr. Brownlow smiled@ and, turning to Oliver, said that Mr. Grimwig was an old friend of his, and he must not mind his being a little rough in his manners@ for he was a worthy creature at bot@tom, as he had reason to know. 'Shall I go down@stairs, sir?' inquired Oliver. 'No,' replied Mr. Brownlow, 'I would rather you remained here.' At this moment, there walked into the room@ supporting himself by a thick stick@ a stout old gentleman, rather lame in one leg, who was dressed in a blue coat, striped waistcoat, nan@keen breeches and gaiters, and a broad-brim@med white hat, with the sides turned up with green. A very small-plaited shirt frill stuck out from his waistcoat@ and a very long steel watch-chain, with nothing but a key at the end, dan@gled loosely below it. The ends of his white neckerchief were twisted into a ball about the size of an orange @the variety of shapes into which his countenance was twisted, defy descrip@tion. He had a manner of screwing his head @o@n@ on@@@e side when he spoke@ and of looking out of the corners of his eyes at the same time@ which irresistibly reminded the beholder of a parrot. In this attitude, he fixed himself, the moment he made his appearance and, holding out a small piece of orange-peel at arm's length, exclaimed, in a growling, discontented voice. 'Look here! do you see this@! Isn't it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that I can't call at a man's house but I find a piece of this poor surgeon's friend on the stair@case@? @I've been lamed with orange-peel once, and I know orange-peel will be my death@ content to eat my own head, sir!' This was the handsome offer with which Mr. Grimwig backed and confirmed nearly every assertion he made and it was the more singu@lar in his case, because, even admitting@ for the sake of argument, the possibility of scientific improvements being @@@@@brought to that pass which will enable a gentleman to eat his own head in the event of his being so disposed, Mr. Grimwig's head was such a particularly large one, that the most sanguine man alive could hardly entertain a hope of being able to get through it at a sitting--to put entirely out of the question, a very thick coating of powder. 'I'll eat my head, sir,' repeated Mr. Grim@wig, striking his stick upon the ground. 'Hallo! what@'s  at Oliver, and retreating a pace or two. 'This is young Oliver Twist, whom we were speaking about,' said Mr. Brownlow. Oliver bowed. 'You don't mean to say that@'s the boy wh@o had the fever, I hope?' said Mr. Grimwig, recoiling a little mor@@e@. 'Wait a minute! Don't speak! Stop--' continued Mr. Grimwig, abruptly, losing all dread of the fever in his triumph at the discovery 'that's the boy wh@o had the orange! If that@'s not the boy, sir, wh@o had the orange, and threw this bit of peel upon the staircase, I@'ll eat my head, and his too.' 'No, no, he has not had one,' said Mr. Brownlow, laughing. 'Come! Put down your hat@ and speak to my young friend.' 'I feel strongly on this subject, sir,' said the irritable old gentleman, drawing off his gloves. 'There@'s always more or less orange-peel on the pavement in our street@ and I _know_ it's put there by the surgeon's boy at the corner. A young woman stumbled over a bit last night, and fell against my garden-railings directly she got up I saw her look towards his inferna@@l@@@ red lamp with the pantomime-light. Don't go to him,@ I called out of the window, he@'s an assassin! A man-trap! So he is. If he is not--' Here the irascible old gentleman gave a great knock on the ground with his stick@ which was always understood, by his friends, to imply the customary offer, whenever it was not expressed in words. Then, still keeping his stick in his hand, he sat down@ and, opening a double eye-glass, which he wore attached to a broad black riband, took a view of Oliver@ who, seeing that he was the object of inspection, coloured, and bowed again. 'That@'s the boy, is it?' said Mr. Grimwig, at length. '@That@'s the boy,' replied Mr.  are you, boy?' said Mr. Grimwig. 'A great deal better, thank you, sir,' replied Oliver. Mr. Brownlow, seeming to apprehend that his singular friend was about to say something disagreeable, asked Oliver to step down@stairs and tell Mrs. Bedwin they were ready for tea@ which, as he did not half like the visitor's manner, he was very happy to do. 'He is a nice-looking boy, is he not?' inquired Mr. Brownlow. 'I don't know,' replied Mr. Grimwig, pettishly. 'Don't know?' 'No. I don't know. I never see any differ@ence in boys. I only knew two sort@ of boys. @Mealy boys, and beef-faced boys.' 'And which is Oliver?' 'Mealy. I know a friend who@@@ has a beef@-faced boy a fine boy, they call him@ with a round head, and red cheeks, and glaring eyes a horrid boy@ with a body and limbs that ap@pear to be swelling out of the seams of his blue clothes with the voice of a pilot, and the appetite of a@ wolf. I know him! The wretch!' 'Come,' said Mr. Brownlow, 'these are not the characteristics of young Oliver Twist so he needn't excite your wrath.' 'They are not,' replied Mr. Grimwig. 'He may have worse.' Here, Mr. Brownlow coughed impatiently@ which appeared to afford Mr. Grimwig the most exquisite delight. 'He may have worse, I say,' repeated Mr. Grimwig. 'Where does he come from! Who is he@? What is he@? He has had a fever. What of that@? Fevers are not peculiar to good people@ are they@? Bad people have fevers sometime@s haven't they, eh@? I knew a man wh@o was hung in Jamaica@ for murdering his master. He had had a fever six times he wasn't recommended to mercy on that account. Pooh! nonsense!' Now, the fact was, that@ in the inmost re@cesses of his own heart, Mr. Grimwig was strongly disposed to admit that Oliver's appear@ance and manner were unusually prepossessing@ but he had a strong appetite for contradiction, sharpened on this occasion by the finding of the orange-peel and, inwardly determining that no man should dictate to him whether a boy was well-looking or not, he had resolved, from the first, to oppose his friend. When Mr. Brown@low admitted that on no one point of inquiry could he yet return a satisfactory answe@r and that he had postponed any investigation into Oliver's previous history until he thought the boy was strong enough to hear it@ Mr. Grimwig chuckled maliciously. And he demanded, with a sneer, whether the housekeeper was in the habit of counting the plate at night because@ if she didn't find a table-spoon or two missing some sunshiny morning, why, he would be content  this, Mr. Brownlow, although himself somewhat of an impetuous gentleman@ knowing his friend's peculiarities, bore with great good humour as Mr. Grimwig, at tea, was gra@ciously pleased to express his entire approval of the muffins, matters went on very smoothly and Oliver, who made one of the party, began to feel more at his ease than he had yet done in the fierce old gentleman's presence. 'And when are you going to hear a full, true, and particular account of the life and adventures of Oliver Twist?' asked Grimwig of Mr. Brownlow, at the conclusion of the meal looking sideways at Oliver, as he resumed his subject. 'To-morrow morning,' replied Mr. Brown@low. 'I would rather he was alone with me at the time. Come up to me to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, my dear.' 'Yes, sir,' replied Oliver. He answered with some hesitation, because he was confused by Mr. Grimwig's looking so hard at him. 'I'll tell you what,' whispered that gentle@man to Mr. Brownlow 'he won't co@me up to you to-morrow morning. I saw him hesitate. He is deceiving you, my good  'I'll swear he is not,' replied Mr. Brown@low, warmly. 'If he is not,' said Mr. G@ and down went the stick. 'I'll answer for that boy's truth with my life!' said Mr. Brownlow, knocking the table. 'And I for his falsehood with my head!' rejoined Mr. Grimwig, knocking the table also. 'We shall see,' said Mr. Brownlow, check@ing his rising @a@nger. 'We will,' replied Mr. Grimwig, with a pro@voking smile 'we will.' As fate would have it, Mrs. Bedwin chanced to bring in, at this moment, a small parcel of books, which Mr. Brownlow had that morning purchased of the identical bookstall-keeper, who has already figured in this history @h@@@@ them on the table, she prepared to leave the room. 'Stop the boy, Mrs. Bedwin!' said Mr. Brownlow 'there is something to go back.' 'He has gone, sir,' replied Mrs. Bedwin. 'Call after him,' said Mr. Brownlow 'it@'s particular. He is a poor man, and they are not paid for. There are some books to be taken back, too.' The street-door was opened. Oliver ran one way@ and the girl ran another@ and Mrs. Bed@win stood on the step and screamed for the boy but there was no boy in  and the girl returned, in a breathless state, to report that there were no tidings of him. 'Dear me, I am very sorry for that,' ex@claimed Mr. Brownlow 'I particularly wished those books to be returned to-night.' 'Send Oliver with them,' said Mr. Grimwig, with an ironical smile 'he will be sure to deliver them safely, you know.' 'Yes do let me take them, if you please, sir,' said Oliver. 'I'll run all the way, sir.' The old gentleman was just going to say that Oliver should not go out on any account@ when a most malicious cough from Mr. Grimwig deter@mined him that he should@ and that, by his prompt discharge of the  to him the injustice of his suspicions@ on this head at least@ at once. 'You _shall_ go, my dear,' said the old gen@tleman. 'The books are on a chair by my table. Fetch them down.' Oliver, delighted to be of use, brought down the books under his arm in a great bustle@ and waited, cap in hand, to hear what message he was to take. 'You are to say,' said Mr. Brownlow, glancing steadily at Grimwig 'you are to say that you have brought those books back@ and that you have come to pay the four pound ten I owe him. This is a five-pound note, so you will have to bring me back, ten shillings change.' 'I won't be ten minutes, sir,@' sai@d Oliver, eagerly@@@@. Having buttoned up the bank-note in his jacket pocket, and placed the books care@fully under his arm, he made a respectful bow, and left the room. Mrs. Bedwin followed him to the street-door, giving him many directions about the nearest way, and the name of the bookseller, and the name of the street@ all of which Oliver said he clearly understood@@@@. Having superadded many injunctions to be sure and not take cold, th@@@@@e@@@ old lady at length permitted him to depart. 'Bless his sweet face!' said the old lady, looking after him. 'I can't bear, somehow, to let him go out of my sight.' At this moment, Oliver looked gaily round, and nodded before he turned the corner. The old lady smilingly returned his salutation, and, closing the door, went back to her own room. 'Let me see he'll be back in twenty minutes, at the longest,' said Mr. Brownlow, pulling out his watch, and placing it on the table. 'It will be dark by that time.' 'Oh! you really expect him to come back, do you?' inquired Mr. Grimwig. 'Don't you?' asked Mr. Brownlow, smiling. The spirit of contradiction was strong in Mr. Grimwig's breast, at the moment@ and it was rendered stronger by his friend's confident smile. 'No,' he said, smiting the table with his fist, 'I do not. The boy has a new suit of clothes on his back, a set of valuable books under his arm, and a five-pound note in his pocket. He@'ll join his old friends the thieves, and laugh at you. If ever that boy returns to this house, sir, I'll eat my head.' With these words he drew his chair closer to the table@ and there the two friends sat, in silent expectation, with the watch between them. It is worthy of remark, as illustrating the import@ance we attach to our own judgments, and the pride with which we put forth our most rash and hasty conclusions, that, although Mr. Grim@wig was not by any means a bad-hearted man,  have been unfeignedly sorry to see his respected friend duped and deceived, he really did most earnestly and strongly hope at that moment, that Oliver Twist might not co@me  grew so dark, that the figures on the dial-plate were scarcely discernible but there the two old gentlemen continued to sit, in silence, with the watch@ between them.  the obscure parlour of a low public-house,c-house, in the filthiest part of Little Saffron Hill @a dark and gloomy den, where a flaring gas-light burnt all day in the winter-time@ and where no ray of sun ever shone in the summer@ there sat, brooding over a little pewter measure and a small glass, strongly impregnated with the smell of liquor, a man in a velveteen coat, drab shorts, half-boots@ and stockings, whom@ even by that dim light@ no experienced agent of the police would have  recognise as Mr. William Sikes. At his feet, sat a white-coated, red-eyed dog@ who occupied himself, alternately, in winking at his master with both eyes at the same time@ and in licking a large, fresh cut on one side of his mouth, which appeared to be the result of some recent conflict. 'Keep quiet, you warmint! Keep quiet!' said Mr. Sikes, suddenly breaking silence. Whether his meditations were so intense as to be disturbed by the dog's winking, or whether his feelings were so wrought upon by his reflec@tions that they required all the relief derivable from kicking an unoffending animal to allay them, is matter for argument and consideration. Whatever was the cause, the effect was a kick and a curse, bestowed upon the dog simultane@ously. Dogs are not generally apt to revenge injuries inflicted upon them by their masters but Mr. Sikes's dog, having faults of temper in common with his owner, and labouring, perhaps, at this moment, under a powerful sense of injury, made no more ado but at once fixed his teeth in one of the half-boots@@@@@. Having given in a@@@@@ hearty shake, he retired, growling, under a form @@@@@@@@just escaping the pewter measure which Mr. Sikes levelled at his head. 'You would, would you?' said Sikes, seiz@ing the poker in one hand, and deliberately opening with the other a large clasp-knife, which he drew from his pocket. 'Come here, you born devil! Come here! D'ye hear?' The dog no doubt heard@ because Mr. Sikes spoke in the very harshest key of a very harsh voice but, appearing to entertain some unac@countable objection to having his throat cut, he remained where he was, and growled more fiercely than before@ at the same time grasping the end of the poker between his teeth, and biting at it like a wild beast. This resistance only infuriated Mr. Sikes the more who, dropping on his knees, began to assail the animal most furiously. The dog jumped from right to left, and from left to right@ snapping, growling, and barking the man thrust and swore, and struck and blasphemed and the struggle was reaching a most critical point for one or other@ when, the door suddenly opening, the dog darted out@ leaving Bill Sikes with the poker and the clasp-knife in his hands. There must always be two parties to a quar@rel, says the old adage. Mr. Sikes, being disappointed of the dog's  once  quarrel to the new comer. 'What the devil do you come in between me and my dog for?' said Sikes, with a fierce gesture. 'I didn't know, my dear, I didn't know,' replied Fagin, humbly for the Jew was the new comer. 'Didn't know, you white-livered thief!' growled Sikes. 'Couldn't you hear the noise?' 'Not a sound of it, as I'm a living man, Bill,' replied the Jew. 'Oh no! You hear nothing, you don't,' retorted Sikes with a fierce sneer. 'Sneaking in and out, so as nobody hears how you come or go! I wish you had been the dog, Fagin, half a minute ago.' 'Why?' inquired the Jew with a forced smile. 'Cause the government, as cares for the lives of such men as you, as haven't half the pluck of curs, lets a man kill @@a dog how he likes,' replied Sikes, shutting up the knife with a very expressive look 'that@'s why.' The Jew rubbed his hands@ and, sitting down at the table, affected to laugh at the pleasantry of his  very ill at @@@@ease, however. 'Grin away,' said Sikes, replacing the poker, and surveying him with savage con@tempt 'grin away. You@'ll never have the laugh at me, though, unless it@'s behind a night@cap. @I've got the upper hand over you, Fagin and, d--me, I'll keep it. There! If I go, you go so take care of me.' 'Well, well, my dear,' said the Jew, 'I know all that we--we--have a mutual inte@rest, Bill,--a mutual interest.' 'Humph,' said Sikes, as if he thought the interest lay rather more on the Jew's side than on his. 'Well, what have you got to say to me?' 'It's all passed safe through the melting-pot,' replied Fagin, 'and this is your share. It's rather more than it ought to be, my dear but as I know you@'ll do me a good turn another time, and--' 'Stow that gammon,' interposed the robber, impatiently. 'Where is it@? Hand over!' 'Yes, yes, Bill give me time, give me time,' replied the Jew, soothingly. 'Here it is! All safe!' As he spoke, he drew forth an old cotton handkerchief from his breast@ and untying a large knot in one corner, produced a small brown-paper packet@@@@@@. Sikes, snatch@ing it from him, hastily opened it and proceeded to count the sovereigns it contained. 'This is all, is it?' inquired Sikes. 'All,' replied the Jew. 'You haven't opened the parcel and swal@lowed one or two as you co@me along, have you?' inquired Sikes, suspiciously. 'Don't put on an injured look at the question you@'ve done it many a time. Jerk the tinkler.' These words, in plain English, conveyed an injunction to ring the bell. It was answered by another Jew@ younger than Fagin, but near@ly as vile and repulsive in appearance. Bill Sikes merely pointed to the empty mea@sure@@@@. The Jew, perfectly understanding the hint, retired to fill it@ previously exchanging a remarkable look with Fagin, who raised his eyes for an instant, as if in expectation of  shook his head in reply so slightly that the action would have been almost imperceptible to  person. It was lost upon Sikes, who was stooping at the moment to tie the boot-lace which the dog had torn. Possibly, if he had observed the brief interchange of signals, he might have thought that it boded no good to him. 'Is anybody here, Barney?' inquired Fagin@ speaking, now that that Sikes was looking on, without raising his eyes from the ground. 'Dot a shoul,' replied Barney@ whose words@ whether they came from the heart or not@ made their way through the nose. 'Nobody?' inquired Fagin, in a tone of sur@prise@ which perhaps might mean that Barney was at liberty to tell the truth. 'Dobody but Biss Dadsy,' replied Barney. 'Nancy!' exclaimed Sikes. 'Where@? Strike me blind, if I don't honour that 'ere girl, for her native talents.' 'She's bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar,' replied Barney. 'Send her here,' said Sikes, pouring out a glass of liquor. 'Send her here.' Barney looked timidly at Fagin, as if for permission the Jew remaining silent, and not lifting his eyes from the ground, he retired@ and presently returned, ushering in Nancy@ who was decorated with the bonnet, apron, basket, and street-door key, complete. 'You are on the scent, are you, Nancy?' inquired Sikes, proffering the glass. 'Yes, I am, Bill,' replied the young lady, disposing of its contents 'and tired enough of it I am, too. The young brat@'s been ill and confined to the crib and--' 'Ah, Nancy, dear!' said Fagin, looking up. Now, whether a peculiar contraction of the Jew's red eye-brows, and a half closing of his deeply-set eyes, warned Miss Nancy that she was disposed to be too communicative, is not a matter of much importance. The fact is all we need care for here and the fact is, that she suddenly checked herself, and with several gracious smiles upon Mr. Sikes, turned the con@versation to other matters. In about ten mi@nutes' time, Mr. Fagin was seized with a fit of coughing@ upon which Nancy pulled her@@@@ shawl over her shoulders, and declared it was time to go. Mr. Sikes, finding that he was walking a short part of her way himself, ex@pressed his intention of accompanying her@@@@@ they went away together, followed, at a little distant, by the dog, who slunk out of a back-yard as soon as his master was out of sight. The Jew thrust his head out of the room door when Sikes had left it@ looked after him as we walked up the dark passage@ shook his clenched fis@t muttered a deep curse@ and then, with a horrible grin, re@seated himself at the table@ where he was soon deeply absorbed in the interesting pages of the Hue-and-Cry. Meanwhile, Oliver Twist, little dreaming that he was within so very short a distance of the merry old gentleman, was on his way to the book-stall. When he got into Clerkenwell, he accident@@ly turned down a by-street which was not exactly in his way but not discovering his mistake unti@l he had got @half-way down it, and knowing it must lead in the right direction, he did not think it worth while to turn back@ and so marched on, as quickly as he could, with the books under his arm. He was walking along, thinking how happy and contented he ought to feel@ and how much he would give for only one look at poor little Dick, who, starved and beaten, might be weep@ing bitterly at that very moment@ when he was startled by a young woman screaming out very loud. 'Oh, my dear brother!' And he had hardly looked up, to see what the matter was, when he was stopped by having a pair of arms thrown tight round his neck. 'Don't,' cried Oliver, struggling. 'Let go of me. Who is it? What are you stop@ping me for?' The only reply to this, was a great number of loud lamentations from the young woman who had embraced him@ and who had a little basket and a street-door key in her hand. 'Oh my gracious!' said the young woman, 'I have found him! Oh! Oliver! Oliver! Oh@ you naughty boy, to make me suffer such dis@tress on your account! Co@me home, dear, co@me. Oh, I've found him. Thank gracious goodness heavins, @I've found him!' With these incoherent exclamations, the young woman burst into another fit of crying, and got so dreadfully hysterical, that a couple of women who came up at the moment asked a butcher's boy with a shiny head of hair anointed with suet, who was also looking on, whether he didn't think he had better run for the doctor. To which, the butcher's boy@ who appeared of a lounging, not to say indolent disposition@ replied, that he thought not. 'Oh, no, no, never mind,' said the young wo@man, grasping Oliver's hand 'I'm better now. Co@me home directly, you cruel boy!   'he ran away, near a month ago, from his pa@rents, who are hard-working and respectable  joined a set of thieves and bad cha@racters@ and almost broke his mother's heart.' 'Young wretch!' said one woman. 'Go home, do, you little brute,' said the other. 'I am not,' replied Oliver, greatly alarmed. 'I don't know her. I haven't any sister, or father and mother either. I'm an orphan I live at Pentonville.@@' 'Only hear him, how he braves it out!' cried the young woman. 'Why, it's Nancy!' exclaimed Oliver@ who now saw her face for the first time@ and started back, in irrepressible astonishment. 'You see he knows me!' cried Nancy, appealing to the by@standers. 'He can't help himself. Make him co@me home, there@'s good people, or he'll kill his dear mother and father, and break my heart!' 'What the devil's this?' said a man, burst@ing out of a beer-shop, with a white dog at his heels 'young Oliver! Come home to your poor mother, you young dog! Come home di@rectly.' 'I don't belong to them. I don't know them. Help! help!' cried Oliver, struggling in the man's powerful grasp. 'Help!' repeated the man. 'Yes I'll help you, you young rascal! What books are these@? You@'ve been a stealing 'em, have you@?@@ Give 'em here.' With these words, the man tore the volumes from his grasp, and struck him hi@@@@@@m on the head. 'That@'s right!' cried a looker-on, from a garret-window. 'That's the only way of bringing him to his senses!' 'To be sure!' cried a sleepy-faced carpen@ter, casting an approving look at the garret-window. 'It'll do him good!' said the two women. 'And he shall have it, too!' rejoined the man, administering@ another blow, and seizing Oliver by the collar. 'Co@me on, you young villain! Here, Bull's-eye, mind him, boy! Mind him!' Weak with recent illness@ stupified by the blows and the suddenness of the attack@ terrified by the fierce growling of the dog, and the bru@tality of the man@ @@@@overpowered by the con@viction of the by@standers that he@@@@  was the hardened little wretch he was described to be@ what could one poor child do! Darkness had set@ in it was a low neighbo@rhood no help was near resistance was useless. In another moment he was dragged into a labyrinth of dark narrow courts, and was forced along them at a pace which rendered the few cries he dared to give utterance to, @@@@@@@unintelligible. It was of little moment, indeed, whether they were intelligible or no@@ for there was nobody to care for them, had they been ever so plain.@@ The gas-lamps were lighted Mrs. Bedwin was waiting anxiously at the open door the servant had run up the street twenty times to see if there were any traces of Oliver and still the two old gentlemen sat, perseveringly, in the dark parlour, with the watch between them.@ narrow streets and courts, at length, ter@minated in a large open space@ scattered about which, were pens for beasts, and other indica@tions of a cattle-market. Sikes slackened his pace when they reached this spo@t the girl being quite unable to support any longer, the rapid rate at which they had hitherto walked. Turn@ing to Oliver, he roughly commanded him to take hold of Nancy's hand. 'Do you hear?' growled Sikes, as Oliver hesitated, and looked round. They were in a dark corner, quite out of the track of passengers@@@@. Oliver saw, but too @plainly, t@hat resistance would be of no avail. He held out his hand, which Nancy clasped tight in hers. 'Give me the other,' said Sikes, seizing Oli@ver's unoccupied hand. 'Here, Bull's-Eye!' The dog looked up, and growled. 'See here, boy!' said Sikes, putting his other hand to Oliver's  he speaks ever so soft a word, hold him! D'ye mind!' The dog growled again@ and@ licking his lips, eyed Oliver as if he were anxious to attach him@self to his windpipe  'He@'s as willing as a Christian, strike me blind if he isn't!' said Sikes, regarding the ani@mal with a kind of grim and ferocious approval. 'Now, you know what you've got to expect, master, so call away as quick as you like the dog will soon stop that game. Get on, young@'un!' Bull's-eye wagged his tail in acknowledg@ment of this unusually endearing form of speech@ and, giving vent to another admonitory growl for the benefit of Oliver, led the way onward. It was Smithfield that they were crossing, although it might have been Grosvenor Square, for anything Oliver knew to the contrary. The night was dark and foggy. The lights in the shops could scarecely struggle through the heavy mist, which thickened every moment and shroud@ed the streets and houses in gloo@m rendering the strange place still stranger in Oliver's eyes@ and making his uncertainty the more dismal and depressing. They had hurried on a few paces, when a deep church-bell struck the hour. With its first stroke, his two conductors stopped, and turned their heads in the direction whence the sound proceeded. 'Eight o' clock, Bill,' said Nancy, when the bell ceased. 'What's the good of telling me that I can hear it, can@'t I!' replied Sikes. 'I wonder whether THEY can hear it,' said Nancy. 'Of course they can,' replied Sikes. 'It was Bartlemy time when I was shopped@ and there warn't a penny trumpet in the fair, as I couldn't hear the squeaking on. Arter I was locked up for the night, the row and din outside made the thundering old jail so silent, that I could almost have beat my brains out against the iron plates of the door.' 'Poor fellow!' said Nancy, who still had her face turned towards the quarter in which the bell had sounded. 'Oh, Bill, such fine young chaps as them!' 'Yes that's all you women think of,' an@swered Sikes. 'Fine young chaps! Well, they're as good as dead, so it don't much matter.' With this consolation, Mr. Sikes appeared to repress a rising tendency to jealousy, and, clasp@ing Oliver's wrist more firmly, told him to step out again. 'Wait a minute!' said the girl 'I wouldn't hurry by, if it was you that was coming out to be hung, the next time eight o'clock struck, Bill. I'd walk round and round the place till I drop@ped, if the snow was on the ground, and I hadn't a shawl to cover me.' 'And what good would that do?' inquired the unsentimental Mr. Sikes. 'Unless you could pitch over a file and twenty yards of good stout rope, you might as well be walking fifty mile off, or not walking at all, for all the good it would do me. Come  don't stand preaching there.' The girl burst into a laugh@ drew her shawl more closely round her@ and they walked away. But Oliver felt her hand tremble, and, looking up in her face as they passed a gas-lamp, saw that it had turned a deadly white. They walked on, by little-frequented and dirty ways, for a full half-hour@ meeting very few people, and those  from their looks to hold much the same position in society as Mr. Sikes himself. At length they turned into a very filthy narrow street, nearly full of old-clothes shops the dog@ running forward, as if conscious that there was no further occasion for his keeping on guard, stopped before the door of a shop th@at was closed and apparently untenanted@ @@@@the house was in a ruinous con@dition, and @@on the door was nailed a board, intimating that it was to let@ which looked as if it had hung there for many years. 'All right,' cried Sikes, glancing cautiously about. Nancy stooped below the shutters, and Oliver heard the sound of a bell. They crossed to the opposite side of the street, and stood for a few moments under a lamp. A noise, as if a sash window were gently raised, was heard@ and soon afterwards the door softly  then seized the terrified boy by the collar with very little ceremony@ and all three were quickly inside the house. The passage was perfectly dark@@@@. They waited, while the person who had let them in, chained and barred the door. 'Anybody here?' inquired Sikes. 'No,' replied a voice, which Oliver thought he had heard before. 'Is the old 'un here?' asked the robber. 'Yes,' replied the voice, 'and precious down in the mouth he has been. Won't he be glad to see you@? Oh, no!' The style of this reply, as well as the voice which delivered it, seemed familiar to Oliver's ears but it was impossible to distinguish even the form of the speaker in the darkness. 'Let's have a glim,' said Sikes, 'or we shall go breaking our necks, or treading on the dog. Look after your legs if you  still a moment, and I'll get you one,' replied the voice. The receding footsteps of the speaker were heard@ and, in another minute, the form of Mr. John Dawkins, other@wise the Artful Dodger, appeared. He bore in his right hand a tallow candle stuck in the end of a cleft stick. The young gentleman did not stop to bestow any other mark of recognition upon Oliver than a humourous grin but, turning away, beckoned the visitors to follow him down a flight of stairs. They crossed an empty kitchen@ and, opening the door of a low earthy-smelling room, which seemed to have been built in a small back-yard, were received with a shout of laughter. 'Oh, my wig, my wig!' cried Master Charles Bates, from whose lungs the laughter had proceeded 'here he is@! oh, cry, here he is! Oh, Fagin, look at him! Fagin, do look at him! I can't bear it @it is such a jolly game, I cant' bear it. Hold me, somebody, while I laugh it out.' With this irrepressible ebullition of mirth, Master Bates laid himself flat on the floor@ and kicked convulsively for five minutes, in an ec@ta@sy of facetious joy. Then@ jumping to his feet, he snatched the cleft stick from the Dodger@ and, advancing to Oliver, viewed him round and roun@d while the Jew, taking off his night@cap, made a great number of low bows to the bewildered boy. The Artful, meantime, who was of a rather saturnine disposition, and sel@dom gave way to merriment when it interfered with business,  pockets with steady assiduity. 'Look at his togs, Fagin!' said Charley, putting the light so close to @hi@@@@s new jacket as nearly to set him on fire. 'Look at his togs@! Superfine cloth, and the heavy swell cut! Oh, my eye, what a game! And his books, too! Nothing but a gentleman, Fagin!' 'Delighted to see you looking so well, my dear,' said the Jew, bowing with mock humi@lity. 'The Artful shall give you another suit, my dear, for fear you should spoil that Sunday one. Why didn't you write, my dear, and say you were coming? We'd have got some@thing warm for supper.' At @his, Master Bates roared again so loud, that Fagin himself relaxed, and even the Dod@ger smiled@ but as the Artful drew forth the five-pound note at that instant, it is doubtful whether the sally of the discovery awakened his merriment. 'Hallo, what's that?' inquired Sikes, stepping forward as the Jew seized the note. 'That's mine, Fagin.' 'No, no, my dear,' said the Jew. 'Mine, Bill, mine. You shall have the books.' 'If that ain't mine!' said Bill Sikes, putting on his hat with a determined air 'mine and Nancy's@ that is@ @I'll take the boy back again.' The Jew started@@@@. Oliver started too, though from a very different cause@ for he hoped that the dispute might really end in his being taken back. 'Co@me! Hand over, will you?' said Sikes. 'This is hardly fair, Bill hardly fair, is it, Nancy?' inquired the Jew. 'Fair, or not fair,' retorted Sikes, 'hand@@@ over, I tell you@! Do you think Nancy and me has got nothing else to do with our precious time but to spend it in scouting arter, and kidnapping, every young boy as gets grabbed through you@? Give it here, you avaricious old skeleton, give it here!' With this gentle remonstrance, Mr. Sikes plucked the note from between the Jew's finger and thumb and@ looking the old man coolly in the face, folded it up small, and tied it in his neckerchief. 'That's for our share of the trouble,' said Sikes 'and not half enough, neither. You may keep the books, if you're fond of reading@@ 'em.' 'They@'re very pretty,' said Charley Bates@ who, with sundry grimaces, had been affecting to read one of the volumes in question 'beautiful writing, isn't is, Oliver?@@@' At sight of the dismayed look with which Oliver regarded his tormentors, Master Bates, who was blessed with a lively sense of the ludicrous, fell into another ec@tasy, more boisterous than the first. 'They belong to the old gentleman,' said Oliver, wringing his hands 'to the good, kind, old gentleman who took me into his house, and had me nursed, when I was near dying of the fever. Oh, pray send them back send him back the books and money. Keep me here all my life long but pray, pray send them back. He'll think I stole them @the old lady@ all of them wh@o were so kind to me@ will think I stole them. Oh, do have mercy upon me, and send them back!' With these words, which were uttered with all the energy of passionate grief, Oliver fell upon his knees at the Jew's feet@ and beat his hands together, in perfect desperation. 'The boy's right,' remarked Fagin, looking covertly round, and knitting his shaggy eye@brows into a hard knot. 'You're right, Oli@ver, you@'re right they WILL think you have stolen 'em. Ha@! ha!' chuckled the Jew, rub@bing his hands, 'it couldn't have happened better, if we had chosen our time!' 'Of course it couldn't,' replied Sikes 'I know'd that, directly I see him coming through Clerkenwell, with the books under his arm. It@'s all right enough. They're soft-hearted psalm-singers, or they wouldn't have taken him in at al@l and they'll ask no questions after him, fear they should be obliged to prosecute, and so get him lagged. He's safe enough.' Oliver had looked from one to the other, while these words were being spoken, as if he were bewildered, and could scarecely understand what passed but when Bill Sikes concluded, he jumped suddenly to his feet, and tore wildly from the roo@m uttering shrieks for help, which made the bare old house echo to the roof. 'Keep back the dog, Bill!' cried Nancy, springing before the door, and closing it, as the Jew and his two pupils darted out in pursuit. 'Keep back the dog he'll tear the boy to pieces.' 'Serve him right!' cried Sikes, struggling to disengage himself from the girl's grasp. 'Stand off from me, or I'll split your @head againstthe wall.' 'I don't care for that, Bill, I don't care for that,' screamed the girl, struggling violently with the man, 'the child shan't be torn down by the dog, unless you kill me first.' 'Shan't he!' said Sikes,setting his  do that, if you don@@@'t keep off.' The housebreaker flung the girl from him to the further end of the room, just as the Jew and the two boys returned, dragging Oliver among them. 'What's the matter here!' agin, looking round. 'The girl's gone mad, I think,' replied Sikes, savagely. 'No, she hasn't,' said Nancy, pale and breathless from the scuffle 'no, she hasn't, Fagin don't think it.' 'Then keep quiet, will you?' said the Jew, with a threatening look. 'No, I won't do that, neither,' replied Nancy, speaking very loud. 'Co@me! What do you think of that?' Mr. Fagin was sufficiently well acquainted with the manners and customs of that particu@lar species of humanity to which Nancy be@longed, to feel tolerably certain that it would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with her, at present. With the view of diverting the attention of the company, he turned to Oliver. 'So you wanted to get away, my dear, did you?' said the Jew, taking up a jagged and knotted club which law in a corner of the fire@place 'eh?' Oliver made no reply. But @he watched the Jew's motions, and breathed quickly. 'Wanted to get assistance called for the police@ did you?' sneered the Jew, catching the boy by the arm. 'We'll cure you of that, my young master.' The Jew inflicted a smart blow on Oliver's shoulders with the club@ and was raising it for a second, when the girl, rushing forward, wrested it from his hand. She flung it into the fire, with a force that brought some of the glowing coals whirling out into the room. 'I won't stand by and see it done, Fagin,' cried the girl. @@'You've got the boy, and what more would you have?--Let him be--let him be--or I shall put that mark on some of you, that will bring me to the gallows before my time.' The girl stamped her foot violently on the floor as she vented this threat and with her lips compressed, and her hands clenched, looked alternately at the Jew and the other robber her face quite colourless from the passion of rage into which she had gradually worked herself. 'Why, Nancy!' said the Jew, in a soothing tone@ after a pause, during which he and Mr. Sikes had stared at one another in a disconcert@ed manner 'you,--you're more clever than ever to-night. Ha! ha! my dear, you are act@ing beautifully.' 'Am I!' said the girl. 'Take care I don't overdo it. You will be the worse for it, Fagin, if I do and so I tell you in good time to keep clear of me.' There is something about a roused woman@ especially if she add to all her other strong passions, the fierce impulses of recklessness and despair@ which few men like to provoke. The Jew saw that it would be hopeless to affect any further mistake regarding the reality of Miss Nancy's rage and, shrinking involuntarily back a few paces, cast a glance, half imploring and half cowardly, at Sikes@ as if to hint that he was the fittest person to pursue the dialogue. Mr. Sikes, thus mutely appealed to@ and pos@sibly feeling his personal pride and influence interested in the immediate reduction of Miss Nancy to reason@ gave utterance to about a couple of score of curses and threats, the rapid production of which reflected great credit on the fertility of his invention. As they produced no visible effect on the object against whom they were discharged, however, he resorted to more tangible arguments. 'What do you mean by this?' said Sikes@ backing the inquiry with a very common impre@cation concerning the most beautiful of human feature@s which, if it were heard above, only once out of every fifty thousand times  uttered below, would render blindness as com@mon a disorder as measles 'what do you mean by it@? Burn my body@! Do you know who you are, and what you are?' 'Oh, yes, I know all about it,' replied the girl, laughing hysterically@ and shaking her head from side to side, with a poor assumption of indifference. 'Well, then, keep quiet,' rejoined Sikes, with a growl like that he was accustomed to use when addressing his dog, 'or I'll quiet you for a good long time to co@me.' The girl laughed again@ even less composedly than befor@e and, darting a hasty look at Sikes, turned her face aside, and bit her lip till the blood came. 'You're a nice one,' added Sikes, as he surveyed her with a contemptuous air, 'to take up the humane and gen--teel side! A pretty subject for the child, as you call him, to make a friend of!' 'God Almighty help me, I am!' cried the girl passionately 'and I wish I had been struck dead in the street, or had changed places with them we passed so near to-night, before I had lent a hand in bringing him here. He@'s a thief, a liar, a devil, all that's bad, from this night forth. Isn't that enough for the old wretch, without blows?' 'Come, come, Sikes,' said the Jew@ appeal@ing to him in a remonstratory tone, and motion@ing towards the boys, who were eagerly atten@tive to all that passed 'we must have civil words@ civil words, Bill.' 'Civil words!' cried the girl, whose passion was frightful to see. 'Civil words, you villain! Yes, you deserve 'em from me. I thieved for you when I was a child not half as old as this!' pointing to Oliver@. 'I have been in the same trade, and in the same service, for twelve years since. Don't you know it@? Speak out@! Don't you know it?' 'Well, well,' replied the Jew, with an attempt at pacification 'and, if you have, it's your living!' 'Aye, it is!' returned the girl not speaking, but pouring out the words in one continuous and vehement scream. 'It is my living@ and @@@@the cold, wet, dirty streets are my home and you@'re the wretch that drove me to them long ago, and that'll keep me there, day and night, day and night, till I die!' 'I shall do you a mischief!' interposed the Jew, goaded by these reproaches 'a mischief worse than that, if you say much more!' The girl said nothing more but, tearing her hair and dress in a transport of passion, made such a rush at the Jew as would probably have left signal marks of her revenge upon him, had not her wrists been seized by Sikes at the right moment upon which, she made a few ineffec@tual struggles, and fainted. 'She's all right now,' said Sikes, laying her down in a corner. 'She's uncommon strong in the arms, when she's up in this way.' The Jew wiped his forehead@ and smiled, as if it were a relief to have the disturbance over but neither he, nor Sikes, nor the dog, nor the boys, seemed to consider it in any other light than a common occur@ance incidental to busi@ness. 'It's the worst of having to do with wo@men,' said the Jew, replacing his club 'but they're clever, and we can't get on, in our line, without 'em. Charley, show Oliver to bed.' 'I suppose he@'d better not wear his best clothes to@morrow, Fagin, had he?' inquired Charley Bates. 'Certainly not,' replied the Jew, reciprocat@ing the grin with which Charley put the ques@tion. Master Bates, apparently much delighted with his commission, took the cleft stick@ and led Oliver into an adjacent kitchen, where there were two or three of the beds on which he had slept before and here, with many uncontrolla@ble bursts of laughter, he produced the identical old suit of clothes which Oliver had so much congratulated himself upon leaving off at Mr. Brownlow's@ and the accidental display of which, to Fagin, by the Jew who purchased them, had been the very first clue received, of his whereabout. 'Pu@t off the smart ones,' said Charley, 'and I'll give 'em to Fagin to take care of. What fun it is!' Poor Oliver unwillingly complied@@@. Mas@ter Bates@ rolling up the new clothes under his arm, departed from the room, leaving Oliver in the dark, and locking the door behind him. The noise of Charley's laughter, and the voice of Miss Betsy, who opportunely arrived to throw water over her friend, and perform other feminine offices for the promotion of her reco@very, might have kept many people awake under more happy circumstances than those in which Oliver was placed. But he was sick and weary@ and he soon fell sound asleep. Chapter  the custom on the stage, in all good@ murderous melodramas, to present the tragic and the comic scenes, in as regular alternation, as the layers of red and white in a side of  The hero sinks upon his straw bed, weighed down by fetters and misfortunestunes in the next scene, his faithful but unconscious squire regales the au@dience with a comic song. We behold, with throbbing bosoms, the heroine in the grasp of a proud and ruthless baron@ her virtue and her life alike in danger, drawing forth her dagger to preserve the one at the cost of the other an@d just as our expectations are wrought up to the highest pitch, a whistle is heard, and we are straightway transported to the great hall of the castle@ where a grey-headed seneschal sings a funny chorus with a funnier body of vassals, who are free of all sorts of places, from church vaults to palaces, and roam about in company, carolling perpetually. Such changes appear absurd but they are not so unnatural as they would seem at first sight. The transitions in real life from well-spread boards to death-beds, and from mourn@ing-weeds to holiday garments, are not a whit less startling@ only, there, we are busy actors, instead of passive lookers-on, which makes a vast difference. The actors in the mimic life of the theatre, are blind to violent transitions and abrupt impulses of passion or feeling, which, presented before the eyes of mere spectators, are at once condemned as outrageous and pre@posterous. As sudden shiftings of the scene, and rapid changes of time and place, are not only sanc@tioned in books by long usage, but are by many considered as the great art of authorship@ an author's skill in his craft being, by such critics, chiefly estimated with relation to the dilemmas in which he leaves his characters at the end of every chapter@ this brief introduction to the present one may perhaps be deemed unneces@sary. If so, let it be considered a delicate intimation on the part of the historian that he is going back @@bac@@k to the town in which Oliver Twist was born the reader taking it for granted that there are good and substantial reasons for making the journey, or he would not be invited to proceed upon such an  Mr. Bumble emerged at early morning from the workhouse-gate, and walke@d with portly carriage and commanding steps, up the High Street. He was in the full bloom and pride of beadlehood his cocked hat and coat were dazzling in the morning sun@ @@@@he clutched his cane with the vigorous tenacity of health and power. Mr. Bumble always carried his head high@ but this morning it was higher than usual. There was an abstraction in his eye, an@ @@@elevation in his air, which might have warn@ed an observant stranger that thoughts were@@ @@passing in the beadle's mind, too great for utter@ance. Mr. Bumble stopped not to converse with the small shop@keepers and others who spoke to him, deferentially, as he passed along. He mere@ly returned their salutations with a wave of his hand, and relaxed not in his dignified pace, until he reached the farm where Mrs. Mann tended the infant paupers with parochial care. 'Drat that beadle!' said Mrs. Mann, hear@ing the  at the garden-gate. 'If it isn't him at this time in the morning@! Lauk, Mr. Bumble, only think of its being you! Well, dear me, it IS a plea@sure, this is! Co@me into the parlour, sir, please.' The first sentence was addressed to Susan@ and the exclamations of delight were uttered to Mr. Bumble as the good lady unlocked the gar@den-gate@ and showed him, with great attention and respect, into the house. 'Mrs. Mann,' said Mr. Bumble@ not sitting upon, or dropping himself into a seat, as any common jackanapes would@ but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair 'Mrs. Mann, ma'am, good morning.' 'Well, and good morning to _you_, sir,' re@plied Mrs. Mann, with many smiles 'and hoping you find yourself well, sir!' 'So-so, Mrs. Mann,' replied the beadle. 'A porochial life is not a bed of roses, Mrs. Mann.' 'Ah, that it isn't indeed, Mr. Bumble,' rejoined the lady. And all the infant paupers might have chorussed the rejoinder with great propriety, if they had heard it. 'A porochial life, ma'am,' continued Mr. Bumble, striking the table with his cane, 'is a life of worrit, and vexation, and hardihood but all public characters, as I may say, must suffer prosecution.' Mrs. Mann, not very well knowing what the beadle meant, raised her hands with a look of sympathy, and sighed. 'Ah! You may well sigh, Mrs. Mann!' said the beadle. Finding she had done right, Mrs. Mann sighed again@ evidently to the satisfaction of the public character@ who, repressing a compla@cent smile by looking sternly at his cocked hat, said, 'Mrs. Mann, I am @@going to London.' 'Lauk, Mr. Bumble!' cried Mrs. Mann, starting back. 'To London, ma'am,' resumed the inflexible beadle, 'by coach. I and two paupers, Mrs. Mann! A legal action is a coming on, about a settlement@ and the board has appointed me--me, Mrs. Mann--to dispose to the matter before the quarter-sessions at Clerkinwell. And I very much question,' added Mr. Bumble, drawing himself up, 'whether the Clerkinwell Sessions will not find themselves in the wrong box before they have done with me.' 'Oh! you mustn't be too hard upon them, sir,' said Mrs. Mann, coaxingly. 'The Clerkinwell Sessions have brought it upon themselves, ma'am,' replied Mr. Bumble 'and if the Clerkinwell Sessions find that they co@me off rather worse than they expected, the Clerkinwell Sessions have only themselves to thank.' There was so much determination and depth of purpose about the menacing manner in which Mr. Bumble delivered himself of these words, that Mrs. Mann appeared quite awed by them. At length she said, 'You@'re going by coach, sir? I thought it was always usual to send them paupers in carts.' 'That's when they@'re ill, Mrs. Mann,' said the beadle. 'We put the sick paupers into open carts in the rainy weather, to prevent their taking cold.' 'Oh!' said Mrs. Mann. 'The opposition coach contracts for these two@ and takes them cheap,' said Mr. Bumble. 'They are both in a very low state, and we find it would co@me two pound cheaper to move 'em than to bury 'em--that is, if we can throw 'em upon another parish, which I think we shall be able to do, if they don't die upon the road to spite us. Ha! ha! ha!' When Mr. Bumble had laughed a little while, his eyes again encountered the cocked hat@ and he became grave. 'We are forgetting business, ma'am,' said the beadle 'here is your porochial stipend for the  Bumble produced some silver mone@y rolled up in paper, from his pocket-book@ and requested a receipt@ which Mrs. Mann wrote. 'It's very much blotted, sir,' said the farmer of infants 'but it's formal enough, I dare say. Thank you, Mr. Bumble, sir, I am very much obliged to you, I'm sure.' Mr. Bumble nodded, blandly, in acknowledg@ment of Mrs. Mann's curtsey@ and inquired how the children were. 'Bless their dear little hearts!' said Mrs. Mann with emotion, 'they@'re as well as can be, the dears! Of course, except the two that died last week. And little Dick.' 'Isn't that boy no better?' inquired Mr. Bumble. Mrs. Mann shook her head. 'He's a ill-conditioned, wicious, bad-disposed porochial child that,' said Mr. Bumble angrily. 'Where is he?' 'I'll bring him to you in one minute, sir,' replied Mrs. Mann. 'Here, you Dick!' After some calling, Dick was discovered@@@. Having had his face put under the pump, and dried upon Mrs. Mann's gown, he was led into the awful presence of Mr. Bumble, the beadle. The child was pale and thin his cheeks were sunken@ and his eyes large and bright. The scanty parish dress, the livery of his mi@sery, hung loosely @@on his feeble body and his young limbs had wasted away, like those of an old man. Such was the little being who stood trembling beneath Mr. Bumble's glance@ not daring to lift his eyes from the floor@ and dreading even to hear the beadle's voice. 'Can't you look at the gentleman, you obsti@nate boy?' said Mrs. Mann. The child meekly raised his eyes, and en@countered those of Mr. Bumble. 'What's the matter with you, porochial Dick?' inquired Mr. Bumble, with well-timed jocularity. 'Nothing, sir,' replied the child faintly. 'I should think not,' said Mrs. Mann, who had of course laughed very much at Mr.  'You want for no@thing, I'm sure.' 'I should like--' faltered the child. 'Hey-day!' interposed Mr@. Mann, 'I suppose you@'re going to say that you DO want for something, now? Why, you little wretch--' 'Stop, Mrs. Mann, stop!' said the beadle, raising his hand with a show of authority. 'Like what, sir, eh?' 'I should like,' faltered the child, 'if some@body that can write, would put a few words down for me on a piece of paper, and fold it up@ and seal it, and keep it for me, after I am laid in the ground.' 'Why, what does the boy mean?' exclaim@ed Mr. Bumble, on whom the earnest manner and wan aspect of the child had made some impression@ accustomed as he was to such things. 'What do you mean, sir?' 'I should like,' said the child, 'to leave my dear love to poor Oliver Twist@ and to let him know how often I have sat by myself and cried to think of his wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help him. And I should like to tell him,' said the child@ pressing his small hands together, and speaking with great fervour, 'that I was glad to die when I was very young for, perhaps, if I had lived to be a man, and had grown old, my little sister@ who is in Heaven, might forget me, or be unlike me and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together.' Mr. Bumble surveyed the little speaker, from @head to foot, with indescribable astonishment@ and, turning to his companion, said, 'They're all in one story, Mrs. Mann. That out-dacious Oliver had demogalized them all!' 'I couldn't have believed it, sir' said Mrs@ Mann, holding up her hands, and looking ma@lignantly at Dick. 'I never see such a hard@ened little wretch!' 'Take him away, ma@'am!' said Mr. Bum@ble imperiously. 'This must be stated to the board, Mrs. Mann. 'I hope the gentleman will understand that it isn't my fault, sir?' said Mrs. Mann, whim@pering pathetically. 'They shall understand that, ma'am they s@hall be acquainted with the true state of the case,' said Mr.  take him away, I can't bear the sight on him.' Dick was immediately taken away, and lock@ed up in the coal-cellar@@@. Mr. Bumble shortly afterwards took himself off, to prepare for his journey. At six o'clock next morning, Mr. Bumble having exchanged his cocked hat for a round one, and encased his person in a blue great-coat with a cape to it@ took his place on the outside of the coach, accompanied by the criminals whose settlement was disputed@ with whom, in due course of time, he arrived in London. H@@@@e experienced no other crosses on the way, than those which originated in the perverse behaviour of the two paupers, who persisted in shivering, and complaining of the cold, in a manner which, Mr. Bumble declared, caused his teeth to chatter in his head, and made him feel quite uncomfortable@ although he had a great-coat on. Having disposed of these evil-minded persons for the night, Mr. Bumble sat himself down in the house at which the coach stopped@ and took a temperate dinner of steaks, oyster sauce, and porter. Putting a glass of hot gin-and-water on the chimney-piece, he drew his chair to the fire@ and, with sundry moral reflections on the too-prevalent sin of discontent and complaining,@@@@@@@@ composed  read the paper. The very first paragraph upon which Mr. Bumble's eye@ rested, was the following adver@tisement. 'FIVE GUINEAS REWARD 'Whereas a young boy, named Oliver Twist, absconded, or was enticed, on Thursday evening last, from his home, at Pentonville@ and has not since been heard of. The above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said Oliver Twist, or tend to throw any light upon his previous history, in which the adver@tiser is, for many reasons, warmly interested.' And then followed a full description of Oli@ver's dress, person, appearance, and disappear@ance@ with the name and address of Mr. Brown@low at full length. Mr. Bumble opened his eye@s read the ad@vertisement, slowly and carefully, three several times@ and in something more than five minutes was on his way to Pentonville@ having actually, in his excitement, left the glass of hot gin-and-water,  Mr. Brownlow at home?' inquired Mr. Bumble of the girl who opened the door. To this inquiry the girl returned the not uncommon, but rather evasive reply of 'I don't know where do you co@me from?' Mr. Bumble no sooner uttered Oliver's name, in explanation of his errand, than Mrs. Bed@win, who had been listening at the parlour door, hastened into the passage in a breathless state. 'Co@me in, come in,' said the old lady 'I knew we should hear of him. Poor dear! I knew we should! I was certain of it. Bless his heart! I said so all along.' Having heard this, the worthy old lady hurried back into the parlour again@ and@ seating her@self on a sofa, burst into tears. The girl, who was not quite so susceptible, had run up@stairs meanwhile@ and now returned with a request that Mr. Bumble would follow her immediately@ which he did. He was shown into the little back study, where sat Mr. Brownlow and his friend Mr. Grimwig, with decanters and glasses before them. The latter  at once burst into the exclamation 'A beadle. A parish beadle, or I'll eat my head.' 'Pray don't interrupt just now,' said Mr. Brownlow. 'Take a seat, will you?' Mr. Bumble sat himself down@ quite con@founded by the oddity of Mr. Grimwig's man@ner. Mr. Brownlow moved the lamp, so as to obtain an uninterrupted view of the beadle's countenance@ and said, with a little impatience, 'Now, sir, you co@me in consequence of having seen the advertisement?' 'Yes, sir,' said Mr. Bumble. 'And you ARE a beadle, are you not?' in@quired Mr. Grimwig. 'I am a porochial beadle, gentlemen,' re@joined Mr. Bumble proudly. 'Of course,' observed Mr. Grimwig aside to his friend, 'I knew he was.  A beadle all over!' Mr. Brownlow gently shook his head to im@pose silence on his friend, and resumed 'Do you know where this poor boy is now?' 'No more than nobody,' replied Mr. Bumble. 'Well, what DO you know of him?' inquired the old gentleman. 'Speak out, my friend, if you have anything to say. What DO you know of him?' 'You don't happen to know any good of him, do you?' said Mr. Grimwig, caustically@ after an attentive perusal of Mr. Bumble's features. Mr. Bumble, catching at the inquiry very quickly,@@@@ shook his head with portentous solemnity. 'You see@@@@?' said Mr. Grimwig, looking triumphantly at Mr. Brownlow. Mr. Brownlow looked apprehensively at Mr. Bumble's pursed-up countenance@ and request@ed him to communicate what he knew re@garding Oliver, in as few words as possible. Mr. Bumble put down his hat@ unbuttoned his coat@ folded his arms@ inclined his head in a retrospective manner@ and, after a few moments' reflection, commenced his story. It would be tedious if given in the beadle's words@ occupying, as it did, some twenty minutes in the telling but the sum and substance of it was, that Oliver was a foundling, born of low and vicious parents. That he had, from his birth, displayed no better qualities than treachery, ingratitude, and malice. That he had termi@nated his brief career in the place of his birth, by making a sanguinary and cowardly attack on an unoffending lad, and running away in the night-time from his master's house. In proof of his really being the person he repre@sented himself, Mr. Bumble laid upon the table the papers he had brought to town@@@@@. Folding his arms again, awaited Mr. Brownlow's obser@vations. 'I fear it is all too true,' said the old gentle@man sorrowfully, after looking over the papers. 'This is not much for your intelligence but I would gladly have given you treble the money, if it had been favourable to the boy.' It is not @@@@i@@@mprobable that if Mr. Bum@ble had been possessed @@of this information at an earlier period of the interview, he might have imparted a very different colouring to his little history. It was too late to do it now, however so he shook his head gravely, and, pocketing the five guineas, withdrew. Mr. Brownlow paced the room to and fro for some minutes@ evidently so much disturbed by the beadle's tale, that even Mr. Grimwig for@bore to vex him further. At length he stopped, and rang the bell violently. 'Mrs. Bedwin,' said Mr. Brownlow, when the housekeeper appeared 'that boy, Oliver, is an imposter.' 'It can't be, sir. It cannot be,' said the old lady energetically. 'I tell you he is,' retorted the old  do you mean by can't be@? We have just heard a full account of him from his birth@ and he has been a thorough-paced little villain, all his life.' 'I never will believe it, sir,' replied the old lady, firmly. 'You old women never believe anything but quack-doctors, and lying story-books,' growled Mr. Grimwig. 'I knew it all along. Why didn't you take my advise in the beginning you would if he hadn't had a fever, I suppose, @eh@? He was interesting, wasn't he@? Inte@resting! Bah!' And Mr. Grimwig poked the fire with a flourish. 'He was a dear, grateful, gentle child, sir,' retorted Mrs. Bedwin, indignantly. 'I know what children are, sir@ and have done these forty years and people who can't say the same, shouldn't say anything about them. That@'s my opinion!' This was a hard hit at Mr. Grimwig, who was a bachelor@@@. As it extorted nothing from that gentleman but a smile, the old  her head, and smoothed down her apron preparatory to another speech, when she was stopped by Mr. Brownlow. 'Silence!' said the old gentleman, feigning an anger he was far from feeling. 'Never let me hear the boy's name again. I rang to tell you that. Never. Never, on any pretence, mind! You may leave the room, Mrs. Bed@win. Remember! I am in earnest.' There were sad hearts at Mr. Brownlow's that night. Oliver's heart sank within him, when he thought of his goo@@@@@d @@@@ it was well for him that he could not know what they had heard, or it might have broken outright. Chapter   noon next day, when the Dodger and Master Bates had gone out to pursue their cus@tomary avocations, Mr. Fagin took the oppor@tunity of reading Oliver a long lecture on the crying sin of ingratitud@e of which he clearly demonstrated he had been guilty, to no ordinary extent, in wilfully absenting himself from the society of his anxious friends@ and, still more, in endeavouring to escape from them after so much trouble and expense had been incurred in his recovery. Mr. Fagin laid great stress on the fact of his having taken Oliver in, and che@rished him, when, without his timely aid, he @@@might have perished with hunger and he related the dismal and affecting history of a young lad whom, in his philanthropy, he had succoured under parallel circumstances, but who, proving unworthy of his confidence@ and evincing a desire to communicate with the police, had unfortu@nately come to be hanged at the Old Bailey one morning. Mr. Fagin did not seek to conceal his share in the catastrophe, but lamented with tears in his eyes that the wrong-headed and treacherous behaviour of the young person in question, had rendered it necessary that he should become the victim of certain evidence for the crown@ which, if it were not precisely true, was indispensably necessary for the safety of him Mr. Fagin and a few select friends. Mr. Fagin concluded by drawing a rather dis@agreeable picture of the discomforts of hanging@ and, with great friendliness and politeness of manner, expressed his anxious hopes that he might never be obliged to submit Oliver Twist to that unpleasant operation. Little Oliver's blood ran cold, as he listened to the Jew's words, and imperfectly compre@hended the dark threats conveyed in them. That it was possible even for justice itself to confound the innocent with the guilty when they were in accidental companionship, he knew already and that deeply-laid plans for the destruction of inconveniently knowing@ or over-communicative persons, had been really devised and carried out by the @@@@Jew on more occa@sions than one, he thought by no means unlikely, when he recollected the general nature of the altercations between that gentleman and Mr. Sikes@ which seemed to bear reference to some foregone conspiracy of the kind. As he glanced timidly up, and met the Jew's searching look, he felt that his pale face and trembling limbs were neither unnoticed@ nor unrelished@ by that  The Jew, smiling hideously, @@@@@ Oli@ver on the head, and said, that if he kept himself quiet, and applied himself to business, he saw they would be very good friends yet. Then, taking his hat, and covering himself @with an old patched great-coat, he went out, and locked the room-door behind him. And so Oliver remained all that day, and for the greater part of many subsequent days, see@ing nobody, between early morning and mid@night, and left during the long hours to com@mune with his own thoughts. Which, never failing to revert to his kind friends, and the opinion they must long ago have formed of him, were sad indeed. After the lapse of a week or so, the Jew left the room-door un@locked@ and he was at liberty to wander about the house. It was a very dirty place@@@. The rooms up@stairs had great high wooden chimney-pieces and large doors, with panelled walls and cornices to the ceiling@@ which, although they were black with neglect and dust, were ornamented in various ways. From all of these tokens Oliver concluded that a long time ago, before the old Jew was born, it had belonged to better people, and had perhaps been quite gay and handsome@ dismal and dreary as it looked now. Spiders had built their webs in the angles of the walls and ceilings and sometimes, when Oliver walked softly into a room, the mice would scamper across the floor, and run back terrified to their holes. With these exceptions, there was neither sight nor sound of any living thing@ and often, when it grew dark, and he was tired of wandering from room to room, he would crouch in the corner of the passage by the street-door, to be as near living people as he could@ and would remain there, listening and count@ing the hours, until the Jew or the boys re@turned. In all the rooms, the mouldering shutters were fast close@@@@@d the bars which held them were screwed tight into the wood the only light which was admitted, stealing its way through round holes at the top@ which made the rooms more gloomy, and filled them with strange shadows. There was a back-garret window@ with rusty bars outside, which had no shutte@r and out of this, Oliver often gazed with a melancholy face for hours together but nothing was to be descried from it but a con@fused and crowded mass of house@tops, blacken@ed chimneys, and gable-ends. Sometimes, in@deed,@@ @a@@@@ grizzly head might be seen, peering over the parapet-wall of a distant hous@e but it was quickly withdrawn again and as the window of Oliver's observatory was nailed down, and dimmed with the rain and smoke of years, it was as much as he could do to make out the forms of the different objects beyond, without making any attempt to be seen or heard,--which he had as much chance of being, as if he had lived inside the ball of St. Paul's Cathedral. One afternoon, the Dodger and Master Bates being engaged out that evening, the first-named young gentleman took it into his head to evince some anxiety regarding the decoration of his person@@@@@@@ to do him justice, this was by no means an habitual weakness with him and, with this end and aim, he condescendingly com@manded Oliver to assist him in his toilet, straightway. Oliver was but too glad to make himself useful too happy to have some faces, however bad, to look upo@@@@n@ too desirous to conciliate those about him when he could honestly do so@ to throw any objection in the way of this pro@posal. So he at once expressed his readiness@ and, kneeling on the floor, while the Dodger sat upon the table so that he could take his foot in his laps, he applied himself to a process which Mr. Dawkins designated as 'japanning his  phrase, rendered into plain English, signifieth, cleaning his boots. Whether it was the sense of freedom and independence which a rational animal may be supposed to feel when he sits on a table in an easy attitude@ smoking a pipe, swinging one leg carelessly to and fro, and having his boots cleaned all the time, without even the past trouble of having taken them off, or the pro@spective misery of putting them on, to disturb his reflections or whether it was the goodness of the tobacco that soothed the feelings of the Dodger, or the mildness of the beer that mollified his thoughts@ he was evidently tinctured, for the nonce, with a spice of romance and en@thusiasm, foreign to his general nature. He@@@@ looked down on Oliver, with a thoughtful cou@ntenance, for a brief space@ and then, raising his head, and heaving a gentle sign, said, half in abstraction, and half to Master Bates 'Wha@t a pity it is he isn't a prig!' 'Ah!' said Master Charles Bates 'he don't know what@'s good for him.' The Dodger sighed again, and resumed his pipe@ as did Charley Bates. They both smoked, for some seconds, in silence. 'I suppose you don't even know what a prig is?' said the Dodger mournfully. 'I think I know that,' replied Oliver,@@@@@@@@ looking up. 'It's a the-- you@'re one, are you not?' inquired Oliver, checking himself. 'I am,' replied the Do@ger. 'I'd scorn to be anything else.' Mr. Dawkins gave his hat a ferocious cock, after delivering this sentiment, and looked at Master Bates, as if to denote that he would feel obliged by his saying anything to the contrary. 'I am,' repeated the Dod@ger. 'So's Charley. So's Fagin. So's Sikes. So's Nancy. So's Bet. So we all are, down to the dog. And he@'s the downiest one of the lot!' 'And the least given to peaching,' added Charley Bates. 'He wouldn't so much as bark in a witness-box, for fear of committing himself no, not if you tied him up in one, and left him there with@out wittles for a fortnight,' said the Dodger.@ a bit of it,' observ@ed Charley. 'He@'s a rum dog. Don't he look fierce at any strange cove that laughs or sings when he's in company!' pursued the Dodger. 'Won't he growl at all, when he hears a fiddle playing! And don't he hate other dogs as ain't of his breed@! Oh, no!' 'He's an out-and-out Christian,' said Char@ley. This was merely intended as a tribute to the animal's abilities, but it was an appropriate remark in another sense, if Master Bates had only known it for there are a g@ood many ladies and gentlemen, claiming to be out-and-out Christians, between whom, and Mr. Sikes'@ dog, there existexist strong and singular points of resemblance. 'Well, well,' said the Dodger, recurring to the point from which they had strayed@ with that mindfulness of his profession which influenced all his proceedings. 'This hasn't go@ anything to do with young Green here.' 'No more it has,' said Charley. 'Why don't you put yourself under Fagin, Oliver?' 'And make your fortun' out of hand?' added the Dodger, with a grin. 'And so be able to retire on your property, and do the gen-teel@ as I mean to, in the very next leap-year but four that ever co@mes, and the forty-second Tuesday in Trinity-week,' said Charley Bates. 'I don't like it,' rejoined Oliver, timidly 'I wish they would let me go. I--I--would rather go.' 'And Fagin would RATHER not!' rejoined Charley. Oliver knew this too well but@ thinking it might be dangerous to express his feelings more openly, he only sighed, and went on with his boot-cleaning. 'Go!' exclaimed the Dodger. 'Why, where's your spirit?' Don't you take any pride out of yourself? Would you go and be de@pendent on your friends@@?' @'Oh, blow that!' said Master Bates@ draw@ing two or three silk handkerchiefs from his pocket, and tossing them into a cupboard, 'that's too mean@ that is.' '_I_ couldn't do it,' said the Dodger, with an air of haughty disgust. 'You can leave your friends, though,' said Oliver with a half smile 'and let them be punished for what you did.' 'That,' rejoined the Dodger, with a wave of his pipe, 'That was all out of consideration for Fagin, 'cause the traps know that we work together, and he might have got into trouble if we hadn't made our lucky that was the move, wasn't it, Charley?' Master Bates nodded assent, and would have spoken, bu@@@@@t the recollection of Oliver's flight came so suddenly upon him, that the smoke he was inhaling got entangled with a laugh, and went up into his head, and down into his throat@ and brought on a fit of coughing and stamping, about five minutes long. 'Look here!' said the Dodger, drawing forth a handful of shillings and halfpence. 'Here's a jolly life@! What's the odds where it comes from@?@@@ Here, catch hold there's plenty more where they were took from. You won't, won't you? Oh, you precious @flat!' 'It's naughty, ain't it, Oliver?' inquired Charley Bates. 'He'll co@me to be scragged, won't he?' 'I don't know what that means,' replied  'Something in this way, old feller,' said Charl@y. As he said it, Master Bates caught up an end of his neckerchief@ and, holding it erect in the air, dropped his head on his shoul@der, and jerked a curious sound through his teet@h thereby indicating, by a lively pantomi@mic representation, that scragging and hanging were one and the same thing. 'That's what it means,' said Charley. 'Look how he stares, Jack! I never did see such prime company as that 'ere boy he'll be the death of me, I know he will.@@@' Master Charley Bates, having laughed heartily again, resumed his pipe with tears in his eyes. 'You've been brought up bad,' said the Dodger, surveying his boots with much sa@tisfaction when Oliver had polished them. 'Fagin will make something of you, though, or you'll be the first he ever had that turned out unprofitable. You'd better begin at once@ for you'll come to the trade long be@fore you think of it@ and you@'re only losing time, Oliver.' Master Bates backed this advice with sun@dry moral admonitions of his own@ which, being exhausted, he and his friend Mr. Dawkins launched into a glowing description of the nu@merous pleasures incidental to the life they led, interspersed with a variety of hints to Oliver that the best thing he could do, would be to secure Fagin's favour without more delay, by the @@me@@@ans which they  employed to gain it. 'And always put this in your pipe, Nolly,' said the Dodger, as the Jew was heard unlock@ing the door above, 'if you don't take fogels and tickers--' 'What's the good of talking in that way?' interposed Master Bates 'he don't know what you mean.' 'If you don't take pocket-handkechers and watches,' said the Dodger, reducing his conver@sation to the level of Oliver's capacity, 'some other cove will so that the coves that lose 'em will be all the worse, and you'll be all the worse, too, and nobody half a ha'p'orth the bet@ter, except the chaps wot gets them--and you've just as good a right to them as they have.' 'To be sure, to be sure!' said the Jew, who had entered unseen by Oliver. 'It all lies in a nutshell my dear in a nutshell, take the Dodger's word for it. Ha! ha! ha! He under@stands the catechism of his trade.' The old man rubbed his hands gleefully toge@ther, as he corroborated the Dodger's reasoning in these terms@ and chuckled with delight at his pupil's proficiency. The conversation proceeded no farther at this time, for the Jew had returned home ac@companied by Miss Betsy, and a gentleman whom Oliver had never seen before, but who was accosted by the Dodger as Tom Chitling@ and who, having lingered on the stairs to ex@change a few gallantries with the lady, now made his appearance. Mr. Chitling was older in years than the Dodger@ having perhaps numbered eighteen winters but there was a degree of deference in his deportment towards that young gentle@man which seemed to indicate that he felt him@self conscious of a slight inferiority in point of genius and professional a@quirements. He had small twinkling eyes, and a pock-marked face wore a fur cap, a dark corduroy jacket, greasy fustian trousers, and an apron. His wardrobe was, in truth, rather out of repair but he ex@cused himself to the company by stating that his 'time' was only out an hour before@ and that, in consequence of having worn the regi@mentals for six weeks past, he had not been able to bestow any attention on his private clothes. Mr. Chitling added, with strong marks of irritation, that the new way of fumi@gating clothes up yonder was infernal uncon@stitutional, for it burnt holes in them, and there was no remedy against the County. The same remark he considered to apply to the regulation mode of cutting the hair@ which he held to be decidedly unlawful. Mr. Chitling wound up his observations by stating that he had not touched a drop of anything for forty-two mor@al long hard-working days@ and that he 'wished he might be busted if he warn't as dry as a lime-basket.' 'Where do you think the gentleman has come from, Oliver?' inquired the Jew, with a grin, as the other boys put a bottle of spirits on the table. 'I--I--don't know, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Who's that?' inquired Tom Chitling, casting a contemptuous look at Oliver. 'A young friend of mine, my dear,' re@plied the Jew. 'He's in luck, then,' said the young man, with a meaning look at Fagin. 'Never mind where I came from, young 'un you@'ll find your way there, soon enough, I'll bet a crown!' At this sally, the boys laughe@@@@@d. After some more jokes on the same subject, they exchang@ed a few short whispers with Fagin@ and with@drew. After some words apart between the last co@mer and Fagin, they drew their chairs to@wards the fire and the Jew, telling Oliver to come and sit by him, led the conversation to the topics most calculated to interest his hearers. These were, the great advantages of the trade, the proficiency of the Dodger, the amiability of Charley Bates, and the liberality of the Jew himself. At length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted@ and Mr. Chitling did the same for the house of correc@tion becomes fatiguing after a week or two. Miss Betsy accordingly withdre@w and left the party to their repose. From this day, Oliver was seldom left alone@ but was placed in almost constant communi@cation with the two boys, who played the old game with the Jew every day@ whether for their own improvement or Oliver's, Mr. Fagin best knew. At other times the old man would tell them stories of robberies he had committed in his younger days@ mixed up with so much that was droll and curious, that Oliver could not help laughing heartily, and showing that he was amused in spite of all his better feelings. In short, the wily old Jew had the boy in his toils@@@@. Having prepared his mind, by solitude and gloom, to prefer any society to the companionship of his own sad thoughts in such a dreary place, was now slowly instilling into his soul the poison which he hoped would black@en it, and change its hue for ever. Chapter   was a chill, damp, windy night, when the Jew@ buttoning his great-coat tight round his s@hrivelled body, and pulling the collar up over his ears so as completely to obscure the lower part of his face@ emerged from his den. He paused on the step as the door was locked and chained behind him and having listened while the boys made all secure, and until their re@treating footsteps were no longer audible, slunk down the street as quickly as he could. The house to which Oliver had been con@veyed, was in the neig@hbo@rhood of White@chapel. The Jew stopped for an instant at the corner of the street@ and, glancing suspiciously round, crossed the road, and struck off in the direction of the Spitalfields. The mud lay thick upon the stones, and a black mist hung over the streets the rain fell sluggishly down, and everything felt cold and clammy to the touch. It seemed just the night when it befitted such a being as the Jew to be abroad. As he glided stealthily along, creeping beneath the shelter of the walls and doorways, the hideous old man seemed like some loath@some reptile, engendered in the slime and dark@ness through which he move@d crawling forth, by night, in search of some rich offal for a meal. He kept on his course, through many winding and narrow ways, until he reached Bethnal Green then, turning suddenly off to the left, he soon became involved in a maze of the mean and dirty streets which abound in that close and densely-populated quarter. The Jew was evidently too familiar with the ground he  at all be@wildered, either by the darkness of the night, or the intricacies of the way. He hurried through several alleys and streets, and at length turned into one, lighted only by a single lamp at the farther end. At the door of a house in this street, he knocke@@@@@d having exchanged a few muttered words with the person who opened it, @@@he  up@stairs. A dog growled as he touched the handle of a room-door@ and a man's voice demanded who was there. 'Only me, Bill only me, my dear,' said the Jew@ looking in. 'Bring in your body then,' said Sikes. 'Lie down, you stupid brute! Don't you know the devil when he@'s got a great-coat on?' Apparently, the dog had been somewhat de@ceived by Mr. Fagin's outer garment for as the Jew unbuttoned it, and threw it over the back of a chair, he retired to the corner from which he had risen@ wagging his tail as he went, to show that he was as well satisfied as it was in his nature to be. 'Well!' said Sikes. 'Well, my dear,' replied the Jew.--'Ah! Nancy.' The latter recognition was uttered with just enough of embarrassment to imply a doubt of its reception for Mr. Fagin and his young friend had not met, since she had interfered in behalf of Oliver. All doubts upon the subject, if he had any, were speedily removed by the young lady's behaviour. She took her feet off the fender, pushed back her chair, and bade Fagin draw up his, without saying @@@@more about it@ for it was a cold night, and no mistake. 'It is cold, Nancy dear,' said the Jew, as he warmed his skinny hands over the fire. 'It seems to go right through one,' added the old man, touching his @@@@@side. 'It must be a piercer, if it finds its way through your heart,' said Mr. Sikes. 'Give him something to drink, Nancy. Burn my body, make haste! It's enough to turn a  see his lean old carcase shivering in that way, like a ugly ghost just rose from the grave.' Nancy quickly brought a bottle from a cup@board, in which there were many@ which, to judge from the diversity of their appearance, were filled with several kinds of liquid@@@s. Sikes@ pouring out a glass of brandy, bade the Jew drink it off. 'Quite enough, quite, thankye, Bill,' replied the Jew, putting down the glass after just setting his lips to it. 'What! You@'re afraid of our getting the better of you, are you?' inquired Sikes, fixing his eyes on the Jew. 'Ugh!' With a hoarse grunt of contempt, Mr. Sikes seized the glass, and threw the remainder of its contents into the ashes@ as a preparatory ceremony to filling it again for himself@ which he did at once. The Jew glanced round the room, as his com@panion tossed down the second glassful not in curiousity, for he had seen it often before@ but in a restless and suspicious  to him. It was a meanly furnished apartment, with nothing but the contents of the closet to induce the belief that its occupier was anything but a working man and with no more suspicious articles displayed to view than two or three heavy bludgeons which stood in a corner, and a 'life-preserver' that hung over the chimney-piece. 'There,' said Sikes, smacking his lips. 'Now I'm ready.' 'For business@@@?' inquired the Jew. 'For business,' replied Sikes 'so say what you@'ve got to say.' 'About the crib at Chertsey, Bill?' said the Jew, drawing his chair forward, and speak@ing in a very low voice. 'Yes. Wot about it@?' inquired Sikes. 'Ah! you know what I mean, my dear,' said the Jew. 'He knows what I mean, Nancy don't he@?@@' @'No, he don't,' sneered Mr. Sikes. 'Or he won't, and that@'s the same thing. Speak out, and call things by their right names don't sit there, winking and blinking, and talking to me in hints, as if you warn't the very first that thought about the robbery.@ Wot d'ye mean?' 'Hush, Bill, hush!' said t@he Jew, who had in vain attempted to stop this burst of indigna@tion 'somebody will hear us, my dear. Some@body will hear us.' 'Let 'em hear!' said Sikes don't care.' But as Mr. Sikes DID care, @@on re@flection, he dropped his voice as he said the words, and grew calmer. 'There, there,' said the Jew, coaxingly. 'It was only my caution, nothing more. Now, my dear, about that crib at Chertsey@ when is it to be done, Bill, eh@? When is it to @be done? Such plate, my dear@, such plate!' said the Jew@ rubbing his hands, and elevating his eyebrows in a rapture of anticipation. 'Not at all,' replied Sikes coldly. 'Not to be done at all!' echoed the Jew, leaning back in his chair. 'No, not at all,' rejoined Sikes. 'At least it can't be a put-up job, as we expected.' 'Then it hasn't been properly gone about,' said the Jew, turning pale with anger. 'Don't tell me!' 'But I will tell you,' retorted Sikes. 'Who are you that's not to be told@? I tell you that Toby Crackit has been hanging about the place for a fortnight, and he can't get one of the servants in@@ @@line.' 'Do you mean to tell me, Bill,' said the Jew@ softening as the other grew heated 'that neither of the two men in the house can be got over?' 'Yes, I do mean to tell you so,' replied Sikes. 'The old lady has had 'em these twenty years and@ if you were to give 'em five hundred pound, they wouldn't be in it.' 'But do you mean to say, my dear,' remon@strated the Jew, 'that the women can't be got over?' 'Not@@ a bit of it,' replied Sikes. 'Not by flash Toby Crackit?' said the Jew incredulously. 'Think what women are, Bill,' 'No not even by flash Toby Crackit,' replied Sikes. 'He says he's worn sham whiskers, and a canary waistcoat, the whole blessed time he's been loitering down there, and it's all of no use.' 'He should have tried mustachios and a pair of military trousers, my dear,' said  did,' rejoined Sikes, 'and they warn't of no more use than the other plant.' The Jew looked @@@@@blank at this  After ruminating for some minutes with his chin sunk on his breast, he raised his head@ and said, with a deep sigh, that@ if flash Toby Crackit reported aright, he feared the game was up. 'And yet,' said the old man, dropping his hands on his knees, 'it's a sad thing, my dear, to lose so much when we had set our hearts upon it.' 'So it is,' said Mr. Sikes. 'Worse luck!' A long silence ensued@ during which the Jew was plunged in deep thought, with his face wrinkled into an expression of villainy perfectly demoniacal. Sikes eyed him furtively from time to time@@@. Nancy, apparently fearful of irritating the housebreaker, sat with her eyes fixed upon the fire, as if she had been deaf to all that passed. 'Fagin,' said Sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed 'is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it's safely done from the outside?' 'Yes,' said the Jew, as suddenly rousing  it a bargain?' inquired Sikes. 'Yes, my dear, yes,' rejoined the  eyes glistening, and every muscle in his face working, with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened. 'Then,' said Sikes, thrusting aside the Jew's hand, with some disdain, 'let it come off as soon as you like. Toby and me were over the garden-wall the night afore last, sounding the panels of the door and shutters. The crib's bar@red up at night like a jail@ but there@'s one part we can crack, safe and softly.' 'Which is that, Bill?' asked the Jew eagerly. 'Why,' whispered Sikes, 'as you cross the  said the Jew, b@ending his head forward, with his eyes almost starting out of it. 'Umph!' cried Sikes, stopping short, as the girl, scarcely moving her head, looked suddenly round, and pointed for an instant to the Jew's face. 'Never mind which part it is. You can't do it without me, I know but it's best to be on the safe side when one deals with you.' 'As you like, my dear, as you like' replied the  no help wanted, but yours and Toby's?' 'None,' said Sikes. 'Cept a centre-bit and a boy. The first we've both got the second you must find us.' 'A boy!' exclaimed the Jew. 'Oh! then it@'s a panel, eh?' 'Never mind wot it is!' replied Sikes. 'I want a boy, and he mus@n't be a big 'un. Lord!' said Mr. Sikes, reflectively, 'if I'd only got that young boy of Ned, the chimbley-sweeper's! He kept him small on purpose, and let him out by the job. But the father gets lagged@ and then the Juvenile Delinquent So@ciety comes, and takes the boy away from a trade where he was earning money, teaches him to read and write, and in time makes a 'prentice of him. And so they go on,' said Mr. Sikes, his wrath rising with the recollection of his wrongs, 'so they go on and, if they'd got money enough@ which it@'s a Providence they have@n't, we shouldn't have half a dozen boys left in the whole trade, in a year or two.' 'No more we should,' acquiesced the Jew, @@@@@who had been considering during this speech, and had only caught the last sentence. 'Bill!' 'What now?' inquired Sikes. The Jew nodded his head towards Nancy, who was still gazing at the fire@ and intimated, by a sign, that he would have her told to leave the room. Sikes shrugged his shoulders impa@tiently, as if he thought the precaution unneces@sary@ but complied, nevertheless, by requesting Miss Nancy to fetch him a jug of beer. 'You don't want any beer,' said Nancy, folding her arms, and retaining her seat very composedly. 'I tell you I do!' replied Sikes. 'Nonsense,' rejoined the girl@ coolly, 'Go on, Fagin. I know what he's going to say, Bill he needn't mind me.' The Jew still hesitated@@@@. Sikes looked from one to the other in some surprise. 'Why, you don't mind the old girl, do you, Fagin?' he asked at length. 'You@'ve known her long enough to trust her, or the Devil@'s in it. She ain't one to blab. Are you@ Nancy?' '_I_ should think not!' replied the young lady@ drawing her chair up to the table, and putting her elbows upon it. 'No, no, my dear, I know you@'re not,' said the Jew 'but--' and again the old man paused. 'But wot?' inquired Sikes. 'I didn't know whether she mightn't p'r'aps be out of sorts, you know, my dear, as she was the other night,' replied the Jew. At this confession, Miss Nancy burst into a loud laugh@ and, swallowing a glass of brandy, shook her head with an air of defiance, and burst into sundry exclamations of 'Keep the game a-going!' 'Never say die!' and the like. These @@@@@ to have the effect of re-assuring both gentlemen@ for the Jew nodded his head with a satisfied air, and re@sumed his seat@ as did Mr. Sikes likewise. 'Now, Fagin,' said Nancy with a laugh. 'Tell Bill at once, about Oliver!' 'Ha! you@'re a clever one, my dear the sharpest girl I ever saw!' said the Jew, patting her on the neck. 'It WAS about Oliver I was going to speak, sure enough. Ha! ha! ha!' 'What about him?' demanded Sikes. 'He's the boy for you, my dear,' replied the Jew in a hoarse whisper@ laying his finger on the side of his nose, and grinning frightfully. 'He!' exclaimed. Sikes. 'Have him, Bill!' said Nancy. 'I would, if I was in your place. He mayn't be so much up, as any of the others but that's not what you want, if he@'s only to open a door for you. Depend upon it he's a safe one, Bill.' 'I know he is,' rejoined Fagin. 'He's been in good training these last few weeks, and it@'s time he began to work for his bread. Besides, the others are all too big.' 'Well, he is just the size I want,' said Mr. Sikes, ruminating. 'And will do everything you want, Bill, my dear,' interposed the Jew 'he can't help him@self. That is, if you@@@@@ frighten him enough.' 'Frighten him!' echoed Sikes. 'It'll be no sham frightening, mind you. If there's any@thing queer about him when we once get into the work in for a penny, in for a pound. You won't see him alive again, Fagin. Think of that, before you send him. Mark my words!' said the robber, poising@@ @@a@@ crowbar, which he had drawn from under the bedstead. 'I've thought of it all,' said the Jew with energy. 'I've--I've had my eye upon him, my dears, close--close. Once let him feel that he is one of us once fill his mind with the idea that he has been a thief@ and he@'s ours! Ours for his life. Oho! It couldn't have come about better! The old man crossed his arms upon his breast@ and, drawing his head and shoulders into a heap, literally hugged himself for joy. 'Ours!' said Sikes. 'Yours, you mean.' 'Perhaps I do, my dear,' said the Jew, with a shrill chuckle. 'Mine, if you like, Bill.' 'And wot,' said Sikes, scowling fiercely on his agreeable friend, 'wot makes you take so much pains about one chalk-faced kid, when you know there are fifty boys snoozing about Common Garden every night, as you might pick and choose from?' 'Because they're of no use to me, my dear,' replied the Jew, with some confusion, 'not worth the taking@@@. Their looks convict 'em when they get into trouble, and I lose 'em all. With this boy, properly managed, my dears, I could do what I couldn't with twenty of them. Besides,' said the Jew, recovering his self-possession, 'he has us now if he could only give us leg-bail again and he must be in the same boat with us. Never mind how he came there@ it's quite enough for my power over him that he was in a robbery@ that's all I want. Now, how much better this is, than being obliged to put the poor leetle boy out of the way--which would be dangerous, and we should lose by it besides.' 'When is it to be done?' asked Nancy, stopping some turbulent exclamation on the part of Mr. Sikes, expressive of the disgust with which he received Fagin's affectation of humanity. 'Ah, to be sure,' said the Jew 'when is it to be done, Bill?' 'I planned with Toby, the night arter to-morrow,' rejoined Sikes in a surly voice, 'if he heerd nothing from me to the contrairy.' 'Good,' said the Jew 'there's no moon.' 'No,' rejoined Sikes. 'It's all arranged about bringing off the swag,@ is it?' asked the Jew. Sikes nodded. 'And about--' 'Oh, ah, it's all planned,' rejoined Sikes, interrupting him. 'Never mind particulars. You'd better bring the boy here to-morrow night. I shall get off the stone@ an hour arter day@break. Then you hold your tongue, and keep the melting-pot ready, and that's all you@'ll have to do.@@@@@@' After some discussion, in which all three took an active part, it was decided that Nancy should repair to the Jew's next evening when the night had set in, and bring Oliver away with her Fagin craftily observing, that, if he evinced any disinclination to the task, he would be more willing to accompany the girl who had so re@cently interfered in his behalf, than anybody else. It was also solemnly arranged that poor Oliver should, for the purposes of the contem@plated expedition, be unreservedly consigned to the care and custody of Mr. William Sikes and further, that the said Sikes should deal with him as he thought fit@ and should not be held responsible by the Jew for any mischance or evil that mighti might be necessary to visit him@ it being understood that, to render the compact in this respect binding, any representa@tions made by Mr. Sikes on his return should be required to be confirmed and corroborated, in all important particulars, by the testimony of flash Toby Crackit. These preliminaries adjusted, Mr. Sikes pro@ceeded to drink brandy at a furious rate, and to flourish the crowbar in an alarming manner@ yelling forth, at the same time, most unmusical snatches of song, mingled with wild execrations. At length, in a fit of professional enthusiasm, he insisted upon producing his box of housebreak@ing tools@ which he had no sooner stumbled in with, and opened for the purpose of explaining the nature and properties of the various imple@ments it contained, and the peculiar beauties of their construction, than he fell  box  the floor, and went to sleep where he fell. 'Good-night, Nancy,' said the Jew, muf@fling himself up as before. 'Good-night.' Their eyes met, and the Jew scrutinised her, narrowly. There was no flinc@hing about the girl. She was as true and earnest in the matter as Toby Crackit himself could be. The Jew again bade her good-night, and, bestowing a sly kick upon the prostrate form of Mr. Sikes while her back was turned, groped down@stairs. 'Always the way!' muttered the Jew to him@self as he turned homeward@. 'The worst of these women is, that a very little thing serves to call up some long-forgotten feeling and, the best of them is, that it never lasts. Ha! ha! The man against the child, for a bag of gold!' Beguiling the time with these pleasant re@flections, Mr. Fagin wended his way, through mud and mire, to his gloomy abode@ where the Dodger was sitting up, impatiently awaiting his return. 'Is Oliver a-bed@? I want to speak to him,' was his first remark as they descended the stairs. 'Hours ago,' replied the Dodger, throwing open a door. 'Here he is!' The boy was lying, fast asleep, on a rude bed upon the floor so pale with anxiety, and sadness, and the closeness of his prison, that he looked like death not death as it shows in shroud and coffin, but in the guise it wears when life has just departed when a young and gentle spirit has, but an instant, fled to Heaven, and the gross air of the world has not had time to breathe upon the changing dust it hallowed. 'Not 
 THE SEVEN  unto an holy Hospitall, That was foreby the way, she did him bring In which seven Bead-men, that had vowed all Their life to service of high heaven's King, Did spend their daies in doing godly thing. Their gates to all were open evermore, That by the wearie way were travelling And one sate wayting ever them before, To call in commers-by that needy were and pore. The first of them, that eldest was and best, Of all the house had charge and governement, As Guardian and Steward of the rest. His office was to give entertainement, And lodging unto all that came and went Not unto such as could him feast againe, And double quite for that he on them spent But such as want of harbour did constraine Those for God's sake his dewty was to entertaine. The second was as Almner of the place His office was the hungry for to feed, And thristy give to drinke a worke of grace. He feared not once himselfe to be in need, Ne cared to hoard for those whom he did breede The grace of God he layd up still in store, Which as a stocke he left unto his seede. He had enough what need him care for more ? And had he lesse, yet some he would give to the pore. The third had of their wardrobe custody. In which were not rich tyres, nor garments gay, The plumes of pride, and winges of Vanit
 suffered living men to be misled By the vain shadows of the dead To graves, from whence it rose, the conquered phantom fled. He broke that monstrous god which stood, In midst of the orchard, and the whole did claim, Which with a useless scythe of wood, And something else not worth a name, Ridiculous and senseless terrors@! made Children and superstitious men afraid. The orchard's open now, and free Bacon has broke that scarecrow deity Come, enter all that will, Behold the ripened fruit, come, gather now your fill ! Yet still, methinks, we fain would be Catching at the forbidden tree We would be like the Deity When truth and falsehood, good and evil, we Without the sense's aid within ourselves would see For 'tis God only who can find All nature in His mind From words, which are but pictures of the thought, Though we our thoughts from them perversely drew To things, the mind's right object, he it brought. Like foolish birds to painted grapes we flew He sought and gathered for our use the true And when on heaps the chosen bunches lay, He prest them wisely the mechanic way, Till all their juice did in one vessel join, Ferment into a nourishment divine, The thirsty soul's refreshing wine. Who to the life an exact piece would make, Must not from other's work a copy take No, not from Rubens or Vandyk
 for I will write a letter vnto the poore man straight and something I will giue him That almes which a man bestowes with his owne hands, he shall be sure to haue deliuered, and God knowes how lon@g I shall liue. With that, his Oastesse dissemblingly answered, saying, Doubt not, Master Cole, you are like enough by the course of nature to hue many yeeres. God knowes quoth he I neuer found my heart so heauy before. By this time pen, inke, and paper was brought, setting himselfe in writing as followeth. In the name of God, Amen. I bequeath my soule to God, and my body to the ground, my goods equally betweene my wife Elenor, and Isabel my daughter. Item I giue to Thomas Doue of Exeter one hundred pounds, nay that is too little, I giue to Thomas Doue two hundred pounds in money, to be paid vnto him presently vpon his demand thereof by my said wife and daughter. Ha, how say you Oast qd. he is not this well ? I pray you reade it. His Oast looking thereon, said, why Master Cole, what haue you written here ? you said you would write a letter, but me thinks you haue made a Will, what neede haue you to doe thus ? thanks be to God, you may liue many faire yeeres. Tis true quoth Cole if it please God, and I trust this writing cannot shorten my daies, but let me see, haue I made a Will ? Now, I promise you, I did verily purpose to write
 tempted the good duke, and troubled his mynde so that he wyst not what to do nor say. Thus moued, he left his huntynge and wente home to his palayes, where he founde his ladye also vexed and moued. As he came home he toke her in his armes, and kyssed her, and dyde his will with her, sayenge his prayers to our Lorde in this wyse O ! Lord Jhesu, I beseche the that I may get a chylde, at this houre, by the whiche thou mayst be honoured and served. But the ladye being so sore moued, spake thus folyshly, and said In the deuyle's name be it, in so muche as God hath not the power that I conceyue and yf I be conceyued with chylde in this houre, I gyve it to the devyll, body and soule. And this same houre that this duke and duches were thus moued, the sayd lady was conceyued with a man chylde, whiche in his lyf wroughte moche myschefe, as ye shall here after this, but afterwards he was converted, and dyde grete penance, and dyed a holy man, as is shewed here after. How Robert the Deuyll was borne, and what grete payne his moder suffred in hys byrthe. THIS duchesse, as we haue herd before, was con-ceyued with the forsayd chylde, which she bare ix monethes as comonly women goo with chylde and ye may well perceyue that this lady coude not be delyuered without grete payn, for she traueylled more than a moneth, and yf good prayers had not been, and almesse dedes, good werkes, and grete penance done for her, s
 company still we loue, we loue, God grant thee well to thriue, And neuer will we depart from thee, For better or worse, my ioy, For thou shalt still haue our good will, Gods blessing on my sweet Boy. This song went vp and downe through the whole Country, and at length became a dance among the com-mon sort, so that Tom Doue, for his mirth and good fellowship, was famous in euery place. Now when they came to London, they were welcome to the Oast Iarrat the Gyant, and as soone as they were alighted, they were saluted by the Merchants, who waited their com-ming thither, and alwayes prepared for them a costly supper, where they commonly made their bargaine, and vpon euery bargaine made, they still vsed to send some tokens to the Clothiers wiues. The next morning they went to the hall, wheretheymettheNortherneClothiers, who greeted one anotherin this sort. What, my Masters of the West, wellmet what cheere ? what cheere ? Euen the best cheere our Merchants could make vs quoth Gray. Then you could not chuse but fare well, quoth Hodge-kins and you be weary of our company, adieu, quoth Sutton Not so, said Martin, but shall wee not haue a game ere wee goe ? Yes faith for an hundred pounds. Well said, old Cole, said they and with that Cole and Gray went to the Dice with Martin and Hodgekins, and the Dice running on Hodgekins side, Coles money began to waste. Now by the masse, quoth Cole, my money shrinkes as bad as Northerne cloth. When th
 wife, there is now a fat pig to be had if you want one. Whereupon she would answer thus, I pray you put him in the hogstie till to-morrow. This was, when any man came thither alone without others in his com-pany, and they saw he had great store of money. This man should be then laid in the chamber ri@ght ouer the kitchen, which was a faire chamber, and the better set out then any other in the house the best bedstead therein, though it were little and low, yet was it most cunningly carued, and faire to the eye, the feet@@ whereof were fast naild to the chamber floore, in such sort, that it could not in any wise fall, the bed that lay therein was fast sowed to the sides of the bedstead Moreouer, that part of the chamber whereupon this bed and bedstead stood, was made in such sort, that by the pulling out of two yron pinnes below in the kitchen, it was to be let downe and taken vp by a draw-bridge, or in manner of a trap-doore moreouer in the kitchin, directly vnder the place where this should fall, was a mighty great caldron, wherein they vsed to seethe their liquor when they went to brewing. Now, the men ap-pointed for the slaughter, were laid into this bed, and in the dead time of the night, when they were sound asleepe, by plucking out the foresaid yron pinnes, downe will the man fall out of his bed into the boy@ling caldron, and all the cloaths that were vpon him where being suddenly scalded and drowned, he was neuer able to cry or speake one word. Then had they a little ladder euer standing ready in OF 
 heaven for ever keep it from my head, And make me as the poorest vassal is That doth with awe and terror kneel to it. 1597. -@King Henry IV., II. iv. 4. LIX. HENRY V. AND THE LORD CHIEF JUSTICE. King. You all look strangely on me and you most You are, I think, assured I love you not. Ch. Justice. I am assured, if I be measured rightly, Your majesty hath no just cause to hate me. @K. No ! How might a prince of my great hopes forget So great indignities you laid upon me ? W@@hat ! rate, rebuke, and roughly send to prison The immediate heir of England ! Was this easy ? May this be washed in Lethe, and forgotten ? Ch. J. I then did use the person of your father, The image of his power lay then in me And, in the administration of his law, Whiles I was bus@y for the commonwealth, Your highness pleased to forget my place, The majesty and power of law and justice, The image of the king whom I presented, And struck me in my very seat of judgment Whereon, as an offender to your father,@ I gave bold way to my authority, And did commit you. If the deed were ill, Be you contented, wearing now the garland, To have a son set your decrees at nought To pluck down justice from your awful bench, To trip the course of law, and blunt the sword That guards the peace and safety of your perso
 fidler scrape thy crowd, for Peggie the browne is she. Must be my Bride, God guide that Peggie and I agree. With his owne musicke and such songs as these spent he his time, and kept from sleeping at last. After some noyse the head spake these two words, TIME IS. Miles hearing it to speake no more, thought his master would be angry if hee waked him for that, and there-fore he let them both sleepe, and began to mocke the head in this manner Thou brazen-faced head, hath mymaster tooke all this paines about thee, and now dost thou requite him with two words, TIME IS had hee watched with a lawyer as long as he hath watched with thee, he would have given him more, and better words then thou hast yet, if thou canst speake no wiser, they shal sleepe till doomes day for me TIME IS  TIME IS, and that you shall heare good man Brazen face. TO THE TUNE OF DAINTIE COME THOU TO ME. Time is for some to plant, Time is for some to sowe Time is for some to graft The horne as some doe know.w. Time is for some to eate, Time is for some to sleepe, Time is for some to laugh, Time is for some to weepe
NAPOLEON Talks of  APOLEON talks of war, boys, And boasts his mighty force, But vain his aim, despite his name, To ride the world's high horse. While waters wash the shore, boys, Our own we will retain@-We're swept the seas before, boys, And so we can again. And so we can, so we can, so we can again, We've swept the seas before, boys, and so we can again. Napoleon talks of war, boys, @@@@And of his fleet doth  thinks it is quite easy,@ land upon our coast. But let those Frenchmen try to come Across the briny main, We're swept the seas before, boys, And so we can again. Napoleon talks of war, boys, His threats no fear imparts, He may have money, ships, and men, But has he English hearts ? And should the Eagle soar, boys, To Lord it o'er the main, We've clipp'd his wings before, boys, And so we can again. Napoleon talks of war, boys, But at him we can smile, Recalling back those glorious days, Trafalgar and the Nile@-With Waterloo and more, boys, On many a well fought plain, We've beat the French before, boys, And so we can again Napoleon talks of war, boys, Though perhaps he don't intend To strike@-@and yet he's not the first, Who's turned to strike his friend But should his cannon roar, boys, Undaunted we'll remain, We've beat such foes before, boys, And so we will again. Napoleon talks of war, boys, But let him bear in mind, That England, Ireland, Scotland, In union they are joined And the freedom that we boast of, Those countries will maintain, We've beat the world before, boys, And so we can again. THE CORK LEG. A TALE I tell now without any flam, In Holland dwelt Mynheer Von Clam, Who every morning said I am, The richest merchant in Rotterdam. Ri too ral, too ral, too ral, too ral, too ral, too ra ral, too ral, ri tol tu ral lay. One day he had stuffed till full as an egg, When a poor relation came to beg, But he kicked him out without broaching a keg, And in kicking him out he broke his own leg. A surgeon the first in his vocation, Came and made a long oration, He wanted a limb for anatomisation, So finished his jaw by amputation. Said Mynheer when he'd done his work, By your knife I lose one fork But upon crutches I'll never stalk, For I'll have a beautiful leg of cork. An artist in Rotterdam 'twould seem, Had make cork legs his study and theme, Each joint was as strong as an iron beam, The springs a compound of iron and steam. The leg was made and fitted right, Inspection the artist did invite, The fine shape gave Mynheer delight, As he fixed it on and screwed it tight. He walked thro' squares and passed each shop, Of speed he went at the very top Each step he took with a bound and a hop And found his leg he could not stop. Horror and fright were in his face, The neighbours thought he was running a race, He clung to a post to stay his pace, But the leg remorseless kept up the chase. Then he called to some men with all his might, O stop me ! or I'm murdered quite. But tho' they heard him aid invite, He in less than a minute was out of sight. He ran o'er hill, and dale, and plain, To ease his weary bones, he fain Did throw himself down, but all in vain, The leg got up and was off again. He walked of days and nights a score, Of Europe he had made the tour, He died, but tho' he was no more, The leg walked on the same as before. In Holland sometimes it comes in sight, A skeleton on a cork leg tight, No cash did the artist's skill repuite, He was never paid and it served him right. My tale I've told both plain and free, Of the richest merchant that could be, @@Who never was buried tho' dead we see, And I've been singing his 
 other three are Boca de Huevos eggs , Boca de Navios ships , and Boca Grande the latter, as its name signifies, is spacious, being many miles in width, spreading between a small British island on the east and the Venezuelan coast, which rises boldly from the sea to the west of it. Through Boca de Huevos we steamed at full speed into the Gulf of Paria, passing between Monkey and Egg Islands, seemingly as near to one another as the grand hills that guard the southern entrance to the Highlands of the Hudson. So narrow is this channel sailing-ships seldom attempt a passage through any but Boca Grande , and such the excessive steepness and height of the islands on either hand, that vessels are likely to be becalmed in it, where anchorage is ren-dered impossible by great depth of water, and so run a risk of drifting helplessly with the rapid currents, finally to be dashed against the rocks. The steamer held on in safety between Scylla and Charybdis, describing in her course a great semicircle as her bows veered from west and gradually headed southward, until she was fairly within the limits of the Gulf of Paria then, swinging round almost due east, she was headed for Port of Spain, situated about fifteen miles from the ocean. Nothing can be nobler than the prospect revealed to us as we skirted along the eastern coast of Trinidad, passing a group of five islets that cluster together midway between the ship's course and the gentle acclivity of the shore. They@ are called the Cóloras, and to them the inhabitants of the little city resort to bathe, and breathe the fresh air when the town is hot and stifling, in the season of calms, which lasts from June to October. Trinity Sunday in the year 1498 fell on the last day of July. On that day there was not more than one cask of sweet water remaining in each of the six leaky ships of Columbus. The parching heat had opened the seams of his vessels@-@they were momentarily in danger of sinking, and much need there was to steer to a harbor where they might be careened and recalked, where provisions might be procured and the water-casks refilled@. The distress of the mariners was pitiful d
 PROLOGUE TO ANTONIO'S REVENGE.Bru. Sheathe your dagger Be angry when you will, it shall have scope. Do what you will, dishonour shall be humour. O Cassius, you are yokéd with a lamb, That carries anger, as the flint bears fire Who, much enforcéd, shows a hasty spark, And straight is cold again. Cas. Hath Cassius lived To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus, When grief, and blood ill-tempered, vexeth him ? Bru. When I spoke that, I was ill-tempered too. Cas. Do you confess so much ? give me your hand. Bru. And my heart too. Cas. O Brutus ! Bru. What's the matter ? Cas. Have you not love enough to bear with me, When that rash humour, which my mother gave me, Makes me forgetful ? Bru. Yes, Cassius and from henceforth, When you are over-earnest with your Brutus, He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so. 1601. -@Julius Caesar, iv. 3. LXXIII. PROLOGUE TO ANTONIO'S REVENGE. THE rawish dank of clumsy winter ramps The fluent summer's vein and drizzling sleet Chilleth the wan bleak cheek of the numbed earth, Whilst snarling gusts nibble the juiceless leaves From the naked shuddering branch, and pill the skin From off the soft and delicate aspects. O, now methinks a sullen tragic sce
 TO SLEEP.  son of the sable Night, Brother to Death, in silent darkness born, Relieve my languish, and restore the light With dark forgetting of my care return, And let the day be time enough to mourn The shipwreck of my ill-adventured youth Let waking eyes suffice to wail their scorn, Without the torment of the night's untruth. Cease, dreams, the images of day-desires, To model forth the passions of the morrow Never let rising sun approve you liars To add more grief to aggravate my sorrow. Still let me sleep, embracing clouds in vain, And never wake to feel the day's disdain. -@Daniel. LXIV. CHAPMAN ON MARLOWE. THEN ho, most strangely-intellectual fire, That, proper to my soul, hast power to inspire Her burning faculties, and with the wings Of thy unspheréd flame visitest the springs Of spirits immortal ! Now as swift as Time Doth follow Motion find the eternal clime Of his free soul, whose living subject stood Up to the chin in the Pierian flood, And drunk to me half this Musaean story, Inscribing it to deathless memory Confer with it, and make my pledge as deep, That neither's draught be consecrate to sleep Tell it how much his late desires I tender If yet I know not , and to light surrender My soul's dark offspring, willing it should die To loves, to passions, and society. -@Chapman. From Chapman's continuation of Marlowe's unfinished poem, Hero and Leander, a paraphrase of the Greek poem supposed to be by Musaeu
 . they marry, build in and for the West Indies, and for the West Indies alone. In our colonies it is quite different. . . . Everyone regards the colony as a temporary lodging-place, where they must sojourn in sugar and molasses till their mortgages will let them live elsewhere. They call England their home, though many of them have never been there. They talk of visiting home and going home, and pique themselves on knowing the probable result of a contested election in England more than in mending their roads, establishing a police, or bettering the condition of a prison. The French colonist deliberately expatriates himself the Englishman never. In these words Trollope paraphrases the language of a relative of the poet Coleridge, who wrote of the Caribbees as he found them more than half a century ago. Mr. Coleridge's book, Six Months in the West Indies, is a most entertaining volume, and I commend it as such to my readers. As it was in Coleridge's time in the good old days of slavery, so it was thirty years ago in the time of Trollope and in this year of grace@-@in all that testifies to the prosperity and thrift of all classes of creoles, white or black, the British West Indian islands present a striking contrast to the French Caribbees. Walking slowly, keeping my eyes about me as I loitered from cor-ner to corner through the streets of St. Pierre, I presently came to the busiest part of the town, where stands a great church, in the front of which I halted for a few minutes to watch a throng of worshippers coming in from all directions, summoned by the tolling of a bell to at-tend vespers. It was a good-natured, talkative, laughing, gossipping crowd, composed for the greater part of colored women, all of them gay and radiant in the gaudiest of calicoes and colored cotton-stuffs there were but few meanly clad persons, and fewer beggars than we had elsewhere seen. The men were more stalwart, more active and agile in their movements than are our Southern blacks or the negroes of St. Kitt's and Antigua. The women were more shapely and well-favored, their figures lissome and by no means gross, or lacking in beauty of contour or comeliness. There were all shades of colo
 THE FAERY QUEENE@-@THE INTRODUCTION.O THE FAERY QUEENE-THE INTRODUCTION. A GENTLE Knight was pricking on the plaine, Ycladd in mightie armes and silver shielde, Wherein old dints of deepe woundes did remaine, The cruell markes of many a bloody fielde Yet armes till that time did he never wield. His angry steede did chide his foming bitt, As much disdayning to the curbe to yield Full jolly knight he seemd, and faire did sitt, As one for knightly giusts and fierce encounters fitt. And on his brest a bloodie Crosse he bore, The deare remembrance of his dying Lord, For whose sweete sake that glorious badge he wore, And dead, as living, ever him adored Upon his shield the like was also scored, For soveraine hope which in his helpe he had. Right faithfull true he was in deede and word, But of his cheere did seeme too solemne sad Yet nothing did he dread, but ever was ydrad. Upon a great adventure he was bond, That greatest Gloriana to him gave, That greatest Glorious Queene of Faery lond To winne him worshippe, and her grace to have, Which of all earthly things he most did crave And ever as he rode his hart did earne To prove his puissance in battell brave Upon his foe, and his new force to learne, Upon his foe, a Dragon horrible and stearn
 annual visit. Half-afraid, he first Against the window beats then, brisk, alights On the warm hearth then, hopping o'er the floor, Eyes all the smiling family askance, And pecks, and starts, and wonders where he is@-Till, more familiar grown, the table-crumbs Attract his slender feet. The foodless wilds Pour forth their brown inhabitants. The hare, Though timorous of heart, and hard beset By death in various forms, dark snares, and dogs, And more unpitying men, the garden seeks, Urged on by fearless want. The bleating kind Eye the bleak heaven, and next the glistening earth, With looks of dumb despair then, sad dispersed, Dig for the withered herb through heaps of snow. 1726. -@Thomson's Whiter. CCXVII. GRONGAR HILL. SILENT nymph, with curious eye, Who, the purple evening, lie On the mountain's lonely van, Beyond the noise of busy man Painting fair the form of things. While the yellow linnet sings Or the tuneful nightingale Charms the forest with her tale Come, with all thy various hues, Come, and aifa thy sister Muse Now, while Phoebus, riding high, Gives lustre to the land and sky ! Grongar Hill invites my song, Draw the landscape bright and stron
 of trees. The surface of the island is rugged and mountainous, the shores steep and precipitous. Great promontories and headlands project out to sea, enclosing deep bays and narrow inlets. Many lofty peaks rise in the centre of the island Mont Pelée, over 4,400 feet high, most prominent of all, towers in the northwest , overlooking valleys and table-lands, covered with dense high woods, as the pri-meval forests are called. In the centre of the island the Pitons du Carbet attain a height of 4,000 feet, forming a group of very rugged, conical peaks, while in the southeast Mont Vauclin, with flattened top, stands up boldly 1,600 feet into heaven. These three elevations, sur-mounting the foot-hills, are visible far out at sea, rendering Martinique a conspicuous landfall to mariners while yet many miles of ocean sep-arate them from the land. All the mountains of the island show traces and scars of their volcanic origin, and in this island, as in Nevis, St. Lucia, Dominica, and others of the mountainous islands, there are numerous boiling springs, some of which are possessed of medicinal and curative properties. The soil is a rich vegetable loam, mingled with pumice it is rich beyond all belief, readily cultivated, and for this reason Mar-tinique is esteemed as the most fertile of all the Caribbees, with the possible exception of St. Christopher and wonderful Barbados. The climate is delightful at all times of the year except during the months of July, August, and September the inhabitants enjoy immunity from hurricanes, for the island lies out of the well-defined track of the cyclones that frequently burst with phenomenal fury on the shores of others of the Caribbees. The mean annual temperature is 81° of heat -@the warmest weather prevails in June, when the thermometer aver-ages 83° the coolest in January, when the mean temperature is 77°. In August, during the height of the wet season, the rainfall amounts to 11.5 inches in March, the driest of the months, to 3.7 inches, and the total for the year is eighty-seven inches, or more than double the total rainfall of New England. Taking the size of the island into consideration, its population,which amounts to no less than 163,000 an average of 428 to the square mile
 Faire Mistris, I haue often mused, that you being a proper woman, could find in your heart for to match with such a greazie Carle as this, an euill mannered mate, a foule lump of kitchin-stuffe, and such a one as is indeede, a scorne of men how can you like him that all women mislikes ? or loue such a loathsome creature ? me thinks verily it should grieue you to lend him a kisse, much more to lie with him. Indeed sir, quoth she, I had but hard fortune in this respect, but my friends would haue it so, and truly my liking and my loue toward him are alike, he neuer had the one, nor neuer shall get the other yet I may say to you before I married him, there were diuers proper young men that were sutors vnto me, who loued mee as their liues, and glad was he that could get my company, those were my golden dayes, wherein my pleasure abounded, but these yeeres of care and griefe, wherin my sorrowes exceede. Now no man regards mee, no man cares for me, and albeit in secret they might beare mee good-@will, yet who dares shew it ? and this is a double griefe, he carries ouer me so iealous a minde, that I cannot looke at a man, but presently he accuseth me of inconstancy, although I protest with-out cause. And in troth, qd. Cutbert, he should haue cause to complaine for somewhat, were I as you. As sure as I liue, and so he shall, quoth she, if he doe not change his byas. Cutbert hearing her say so, began to grow further in requesting her fauour, wishing he might be her seruant and secret friend, and the better to obtai
 Made by Robert Greene, Maister of Arts. London, printed for Edward White, and are to be sold at his shop, at the little north dore of Poules at the signe of the Gun, 1594, 4to. is a play similar in its incidents to the present narrative, upon which it is probably founded, as it was the custom with the Dra-matists of that day to adopt some popular tale as the foundation of their work. There were also editions of this play printed in 1599, 1630 and 1655. There is one tradition connected with the history of Friar Bacon which is not mentioned either in the Play or the Romance, namely, that he acquired his skill in magic by promising himself to the devil, after his death, provided he died either in the church or out of it and the fulfilment of which contract he evaded, when he felt his end approaching, by causing a cell to be formed neither in nor out of, but in the wall of the church, wherein he both died and was buried. We cannot bring these scanty notes to a close with-out expressing our hope that the learned Biographer of Jerome Cardan and Cornelius Agrippa, may employ his able pen on the production of a life of  BACON not Friar Bacon@-@but Roger Bacon the old English Philosophe
 mighty master smiled to see That love was in the next degree 'Twas but a kindred sound to move For pity melts the mind to love. Softly sweet, in Lydian measures, Soon he soothed his soul to pleasures War, he sung, is toil and trouble Honour but an empty bubble Never ending, still beginning, Fighting still, and still destroying If the world be worth thy winning, Think, O think it worth enjoying. Lovely Thais sits beside thee Take the good the gods provide thee. The many rend the skies with loud applause So Love was crowned but Music won the cause. The prince, unable to conceal his pain, Gazed on the fair Who caused his care, And sighed and looked, sighed and looked, Sighed and looked, and sighed again At length, with love and wine at once oppressed, The vanquished victor sunk upon her breast. 6. Now strike the golden lyre again A louder yet, and yet a louder strain. Break his bands of sleep asunder, And rouse him, like a rattling peal of thunder. Hark, hark, the horrid sound Has raised up his head As awaked from the dead And, amazed, he stares around. ' Revenge, revenge,' Timotheus cries, ' See the Furies arise 
 bearing date 1598, and presumed to be the first, is extant. All three of these books became popular favourites and eventually@-@which is the best proof of their popu-larity-Penny Chap Books. Deloney did not long survive the publication of these Histories for Kemp clearly speaks of him as dead in 1600,- but I was given since to understand your late generate Tho. dyed poorely, as ye all must do,o, and was honestly buried, which is much to be doubted of some of you. With an epigram on our author, from Skialetheia, or the Shadowe of Truth, printed in 1598, we may bring our short biography of him to a close. Like to the fatall ominous Raven, which tolls The sick man's dirge within his hollow beak, So every paper-clothed post in Poules To thee, Deloney, mourningly doth speke, And tells thee of thy hempen tragedie The wracks of hungry Tyburne, nought to thyne, Such massacres made of thy balladry, And thou in griefe, for woe thereof must pine. At every sheet's end Fuscus' rimes are read, And thine in silence must be  Dramatic Poetry, iii. 136. For the materials of this notice of Deloney, I am indebted in a great measure to the works of Mr. Collier, and to the Rev. A. Dyce's edition of The Nine Daies Wonde
 wherewith the veines of his nose were ouer-charged, his impediment did grow, therefore, quoth he, to haue redresse for this disease, you must haue a veine opened in your nose, whence this foule corruption must be taken whereupon it will follow, that your nose will fall againe to his naturall proportion, and neuer shall you be troubled with this griefe any more, and there-upon will I gage my life. I pray you master Doctor, said the Knight, is my nose so big as you make it ? With reuerence I may speake it, said the Physician, to tell the truth, and auoid flattery, I neuer saw a more misshapen nose so foule to sight. Lo you now Madam, quoth the Knight, this is you that said my nose was as well, as hansome, and as comely a nose as any mans. Alas sir, qd. she, I spake it God wot because you should not grieue at it, nor take my words in ill part, neither did it indeed become me to mislike of your nose. All this we will quickly remedy, said the Physician, haue no doubt and with that, he very orderly prickt him in the nose, but not in a veine whereby he might bleed and presently hauing a tricke finely to vnstop the quill, the blood ranne into a bason in great abundance and when the bladder was empty, and the bason almost full, the Physician seemed to close the veine, and asked him how he felt his nose, shewing the great quantite of filthy blood which from thence he had taken. The Knight beholding it with great wonder, said, he thought that no man in the world had beene troubl
 though in years this last was him before, Yet fell he far short of the other's store. When after those, four ages very near, They with the Muses which conversed, were That princely Surrey, early in the time Of the eighth Henry, who was then the prime Of England's noble youth with him there came Wyatt, with reverence whom we still do name Amongst our poets Brian had a share With the two former, which accounted are That time's best makers, and the authors were Of those small poems, which the title bear, Of songs and sonnets, wherein oft they hit On many dainty passages of wit. Gascoine and Churchyard after them again In the beginning of Eliza's reign, Accounted were great meterers many a day, But not inspired with brave fire, had they Lived but a little longer, they had seen Their works before them to have buried been. Grave moral Spenser after these came on, Than whom I am persuaded there was none, Since the blind bard his Iliads up did make, Fitter a task like that to undertake, To set down boldly, bravely to invent, In all high knowledge, surely excellent. The noble Sidney, with this last arose, That hero for numbers and for prose, That thoroughly paced our language us to show, The plenteous English hand in hand might go With Greek and Latin, and did first reduce Our tongue from Lilly's writing then in use. Then Warner, though his lines were not so trimmed, Nor yet his poem so exactly limn
VI. FROM THE ESSAY ON  !e, And taught the doubtful battle where to rage. So when an Angel, by divine command, With rising tempests shakes a guilty land, Such as of late o'er pale Britannia passed, Calm and serene he drives the furious blast, And, pleased the Almighty's orders to perform, Rides in the whirlwind and directs the storm. 1704. -@Addison, The Campaign. CCVI. FROM THE ESSAY ON CRITICISM. A little learning is a dangerous thing ! Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely sobers us again. Fired at first sight with what the Muse imparts, In fearless youth we tempt the height of arts, While from the bounded level of our mind Short views we take nor see the lengths behind But more advanced behold with strange surprise New distant scenes of endless science rise. So pleased at first the towering Alps we try, Mount o'er the vales, and seem to tread the sky Th' eternal snows appear already past, And the first clouds and mountains seem the last But those attained, we tremble to survey The growing labours of the lengthened way, The increasing prospect tires our wandering eyes, Hills peep o'er hills, and Alps on Alps arise ! . . .@† But most by numbers judge a poet's song, See Drayton's Of Poets and Poesy, line 78. † ' The comparison of a student's progress in the sciences with the journey of a traveller in the Alps is perhaps the best that English poetry can show.'-@Johnson's Life of Pope. But Headley in his Select Beauties notes that the simile was anticipated by Drummon
 I have answered Caius Cassius so ? When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous To lock such rascal counters from his friends, Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts, Dash him to pieces ! Cas. I denied you not. Bru. You did. Cas. I did not he was but a fool That brought my answer back.@-@Brutus hath rived my heart. A friend should bear his friend's infirmities But Brutus makes mine greater than they are. Bru. I do not, till you practise them on me. Cas. You love me not. Bru. I do not like your faults. Cas. A friendly eye could never see such faults. Bru. A flatterer's would not, though they do appear As huge as high Olympus. Cas. Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come, Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius. For Cassius is aweary of the world Hated by one he loves braved by his brother Checked like a bondman all his faults observed, Set in a note-book, learned, and conned by rote, To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep My spirit from mine eyes !@-There is my dagger, And here my naked breast within, a heart Dearer than Plutus' mine, richer than gold If that thou beest a Roman, take it forth I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart Strike, as thou didst at Caesar for, I know, When thou didst hate him worst, thou lovedst him better Than ever thou lovedst Cassiu
 PHILOMELA'S ODE. SITTING by a river's side, Where a silent stream did glide, Muse I did of many things, That the mind in quiet brings. I gan think how some men deem Gold their god and some esteem Honour is the chief content, That to man in life is lent. And some others do contend, Quiet none, like to a friend. Others hold, there is no wealth Comparèd to a perfect health. Some man's mind in quiet stands, When he is lord of many lands But I did sigh, and said all this Was but a shade of perfect bliss And in my thoughts I did approve, Nought so sweet as is true love. Love 'twixt lovers passeth these, When mouth kisseth and heart 'grees, With folded arms and lips meeting, Each soul another sweetly greeting For by the breath the soul fleeteth, And soul with soul in kissing meeteth. If love be so sweet a thing, That such happy bliss doth bring, Happy is love's sugared thrall, But unhappy maidens all, Who esteem your virgin blisses, Sweeter than a wife's sweet kisses. No such quiet to the mind, As true Love with kisses kind
 Answer was made, that he was inhis chamber. So when they had called him, they went to dinner then they requested that their Oast and Oastesse would sit with them. Husband, said she, you may goe if you please but as for me, I will desire pardon. Nay, good-@wife, goe vp, said her husband. What woman, you must beare with your guests. Why husband, qd. she, doe you thinke that any can beare the flirts and fromps, which that Northerne tike gaue me the last time he was in towne now God forgiue me, I had as liefe see the diuell as to see him therefore good husband goe vp your selfe, and let me alone, for in faith, I shall neuer abide that Jacke while I liue. Upon these words away went her husband, and though he said little, he thought the more. Now when he came vp, his guests bade him welcome. I pray you sit downe, good mine Oast, quoth they, where is your wife ? What will she sit with vs ? No verily, said he, the foolish woman hath taken such a displeasure against Cutbert, that she sweares she will neuer come in his company. Is it so, said the other ? then trust me we are well agreed and I sweare by my fathers sale, qd. hee, that were it not meete for good will to you, then loue to her, I would neuer come to your house meere. I beleeue it well, said old Bosome. And so with other communication they droue out the time, till dinner was ended. After they were risen, Martin and Hodgekins got them forth about their affaires, but Cutb. tooke his Oa
 suit the time with pleasing congruence ! May we be happy in our weak devoir, And all part pleased in most wished content. But sweat of Hercules can ne'er beget So blest an issue. Therefore we proclaim, If any spirit breathes within this sound Uncapable of weighty passion, As from his birth being hugged in the arms And nuzled 'twixt the breasts of Happiness Who winks and shuts his apprehension up From common-sense of what men were, and are Who would not know what men must be let such Hurry amain from our black-visaged shows We shall affright their eyes. But if a breast, Nailed to the earth with grief if any heart, Pierced through with anguish, pant within this ring If there be any blood, whose heat is choked And stifled with true sense of misery If aught of these strains fill this consort up, The@y arrive most welcome. O, that our power Could lackey or keep wing with our desires That with unused poise of style and sense We might weigh massy in judicious scale ! Yet here's the prop that doth support our hopes When our scenes falter, or invention halts, Your favour will give crutches to our faults. 1602.  prologue, for its passionate earnestness, and for the tragic note of preparation which it sounds, might have preceded one of those old tales of ' Thebes or Pelops' line,' which Milton has so highly commended, as free from the common error of the poets in his days, ' of intermixing comic stuff with tragic sadness and gravity, brought in without discretion corruptly to gratify the people@'.@-@It is as solemn a preparative as the ' warning voice which he who saw the Apocalypse, heard cry '.@-@Charles Lam
 laughing flowers that round them blow Drink life and fragrance as they flow. Now the rich stream of music winds along, Deep, majestic, smooth, and strong, Through verdant vales, and Ceres' golden reign Now rolling down the steep amain, Headlong, impetuous, see it pour The rocks and nodding groves rebellow to the roar. I. 2. Oh ! sovereign of the willing soul, Parent of sweet and solemn-breathing airs, Enchanting shell ! the sullen Cares And frantic Passions hear thy soft control. On Thracia's hills the Lord of War Has curbed the fury of his car, And dropt his thirsty lance at thy command. Perching on the sceptred hand Of Jove, thy magic lulls the feathered king With ruffled plumes and flagging wing Quenched in dark clouds of slumber lie The terror of his beak, and lightnings of his eye. I. 3. Thee the voice, the dance, obey, Tempered to thy warbled lay. O'er Idalia's velvet-green † The rosy-crownèd Loves are seen On Cytherea's day, With antic Sports, and blue-eyed Pleasures, Frisking light in frolic measures Ares, the Greek god of War, was said to live in Thrace. The ' feathered king ' is the eagle. † Venus, called Idalia from Idalium, a town in Cyprus, and Cytherea from Cythera, an island south of Laconi
 the islands we bad hitherto seen, and none we were thereafter to behold, awakened so much curiosity in my mind, or provoked such a longing to go on shore for the purpose of visiting the quaint settle-ment, to study the romantic life of this strange folk, to watch them build their boats, and, if need be, bear a hand at the launching of one of the little craft as it was lowered down the cliffs, to be wet for the first time with salt-water. Alas ! I had to be content with hurrying past the place, and have therefore ever since promised myself that when my ship comes in she has been homeward bound many a year I shall put to sea again in my own pleasure-craft, lay my course for the Caribbees, land at, or rather go on board of, Saba, there to remain until the idea of dwelling on a mountain in the midst of the sea should no longer to my mind be a wonder@ful experience, and one that chal-lenged my especial admiration. St. Eustatius, in the early days of its settlement by the Dutch, was a most fertile and diligently cultivated settlement. Its mountain-tops were covered by a luxuriant growth of forest, and all the compass of its sides were highly productive it can hardly be credited what quan-tities of tobacco it hath hitherto, and still doth yield, wrote a visit
 There was a goodly show of smacks and pirogues, of all sizes, for the waters hereaway swarm with schools of fish. With snapper, familiar to the palates of ichthyophagi in our Gulf States jewfish, sweet and toothsome when fried in boiling oil, as feudal barons were wont to serve usurers who dunned them too persistently for overdue interest on forced loans snooks, fish of little worth, as their name in some sort would seem to indicate. There are also parrot-fish, colored gold and crimson and royal purple, as gaudy@ and brilliant in hue as the flowers that gleam and flaunt their magnificence in the dense shadow of tropical forests. But the best of all the prizes drawn from the lottery of the sea by@ Trinidad fishermen is the barracouta, a name now familiar to my readers, some of whom may have won-dered how the steamer came by her novel title. Her owners, intend-ing her for West Indian service and thinking their ship worthy of a good name, called her by a name familiar all up and down the islands. The barracoutas resemble large pike in shape, are shark-like in their rapacity, swimming with the speed of salmon, which, I verily be-lieve, can cleave the water with a rapidity of motion that leaves all other of the finny tribe far behind. It is said that at some of the West Indian Islands@-@Nevis and Santa Cruz, for instance@-@at certain seasons of the year the barracouta may not with safety be eaten, be-cause its flesh is poisoned by what it feeds upon. I had no scruple, however, and experienced no sinkings or deadly@ qualms when a large portion of this delectable food was served to me, sitting at table, the invited guest of a member of the Trinidad Club. It looked palatable, and I found it so@, for it tempted me, and I did eat, taking no harm and having no excuse thereafter to take a little something for my stomach's sake-@moreover, I was glad that, having shipped in the Barracouta, to have, in turn, a barracouta shipped in me. Before noon we came to Boca de Mono, a narrow strait between Entrada Point, the northwest cape of Trinidad, and Mono Island. This passage the Monkey's Mouth is the narrowest of the four Dragon's Mouths that open from the ocean into the Gulf of Pari
 a sunshine holiday, Till the live-long daylight fail Then to the spicy nut-brown ale, With stories told of many a feat, How Fairy Mab the junkets eat She was pinched and pulled, she said And he, by Friar's lantern led, Tells how the drudging goblin sweat, To earn his cream-bowl duly set, When in one night, ere glimpse of morn, His shadowy flail hath threshed the corn That ten day-labourers could not end Then lies him down the lubbar fiend, And, stretched out all the chimney's length, Basks at the fire his hairy strength, And crop-full out of doors he flings, Ere the first cock his matin rings. Thus done the tales, to bed they creep, By whispering winds soon lulled asleep. Towered cities please us then, And the busy hum of men, Where throngs of knights and barons bold In weeds of peace high triumphs hold, With store of ladies, whose bright eyes Rain influence, and judge the prize Of wit or arms, while both contend To win her grace whom all commend. There let Hymen oft appear, In saffron robe, with taper clear, And pomp, and feast, and revelry, With mask and antique pageantry Such sights as youthful poets dream On summer eves by haunted stream. Then to the well-trod stage ano
 Wherefore most Noble Duke, albeit I account my life vnworthy of your least fauour, yet I would desire you to match your loue to your like, and let me rest to my rake, and vse my forke for my liuing. Consider, faire Margaret, quoth he that it lyes not in mans power to place his loue where he list, being the worke of an high deity. A bird was neuer seene in Pontus, nor true loue in a fleeting mind neuer shall remoue the affection of my heart which in nature re-sembleth the stone Abiston, whose fire can neuer be cooled wherefore sweet Maiden giue not obstinate deniall, where gentle acceptance ought to be receiued. Faire sir, quoth she consider what high displeasure may rise by a rash match, what danger a Kings frownes may breed, my worthlesse matching with your Royalty, may perhaps regaine your liberty, and hazard my life then call to mind how little you should enjoy your loue or I my wedded Lord. The Duke at these words made this reply, that if she consented, she should not dread any danger. The thunder quoth he is driuen away by ringing of belles, the Lions wrath qualified by a yeelding body how much more a Brothers anger with a Brothers intreaty ? By me he hath receiued many fauors, and neuer yet did he requite any one of them and who is ignorant that the Princely Crown which adorneth his head, is my right ? all which I am content he shall still enioy, so he requite my kindnesse. But if he should not, then would I be like those men that eating of the tree Lutes forg
 is his darling passion to approve More brave for this, that he hath much to love -'Tis, finally, the man, who, lifted high, Conspicuous object in a Nation's eye, Or left unthought-of in obscurity,@-Who, with a toward or untoward lot, Prosperous or adverse, to his wish or not@-Plays, in the many games of life, that one Where what he most doth value must be won Whom neither shape of danger can dismay, Nor thought of tender happiness betray Who, not content that former worth stand fast, Looks forward, persevering to the last, From well to better, daily self-surpassed Who, whether praise of him must walk the earth For ever, and to noble deeds give birth, Or he must fall, to sleep without his fame, And leave a dead unprofitable name@-Finds comfort in himself and in his cause And, while the mortal mist is gathering, draws His breath in confidence of Heaven's applause This is the happy Warrior this is he That every Man in arms should wish to be. -@ CCCVIII. THE WORLD IS TOO MUCH WITH US. The world is too much with us late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers Little we see in Nature that is ours We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon ! This sea that bares her bosom to the moon, The winds that will be howling at all hour
 goodes, and robbed my hous and other sayd, he hath wounded me to deth, with many semblable offences. Thus lay they greuously complaynynge before the good duke, that grete pyte it was there for to se the good duke herynge the greuous and lamentable complayntes of the great murdre done by Robert his sone, thoroughout all the lande of Normande. Than his herte was suppressed with so grete sorrowe and thought that the salt teres breste oute of his eyen, and he wepte tenderly and sayd O ryght wyse God creatoure of heaven and erth, I haue so many tymes prayed ye to sende me a chylde and all my delyte was to haue a sone, to the entente that I myght of hym have grete joye, and solace. And now haue I one, the whiche doth my herte soo moche payne, sorowe and thought that I wote in no wyse what to begyn, nor doo, nor saye thereto, but good Lorde onely I crye upon the for helpe, and remedye to be a lytel released of my payne and sorowe. How the duke sent out men of armes for to take Robert his sone, whiche Roberte toke them all, and put out theyr eyen in dyspyte of his fader, and sente them so home agayne. THERE was a knyght of the Dukes hous, whiche per-ceyued that this good duke was uery sorowfull and pensyfe, and knewe no remedy then this knyght spake and sayd to hym My lorde, I wolde aduyse you to sende for your soue Robert and let hym be brought 
 OPENING OF THE RELIGIO LAICI. DIM as the borrowed beams of moon and stars To lonely, weary, wandering travellers, Is reason to the soul and as on high Those rolling fires discover but the sky, Not light us here so reason's glimmering ray Was lent, not to assure our doubtful way, But guide us upward to a better day. And as those nightly tapers disappear When day's bright lord ascends our hemisphere So pale grows reason at religion's sight So dies, and so dissolves in supernatural light.  TO THE MEMORY OF MR. OLDHAM. FAREWELL, too little and too lately known, Whom I began to think, and call my own For sure our souls were near allied, and thine Cast in the same poetic mould with mine. One common note on either lyre did strike, And knaves and fools we both abhorred alike. To the same goal did both our studies drive The last set out the soonest did arrive. Thus Nisus fell upon the slippery place, Whilst his young friend performed and won the race.† Oh early ripe ! to thy abundant store What could advancing age have added more ? It might what Nature never gives the young Have taught the numbers of thy native tongue. But satire needs not those, and wit will shine Through the harsh cadence of a rugged  Oldham, a satirical poet, died in 1683, aged thirty. Abp. Trench considers this to be the ' finest and most affecting epitaph in the English language '. † AEneid, v. 327-33
 still he fills affection's eye, Obscurely wise and coarsely kind, Nor, lettered Arrogance, deny Thy praise to merit unrefined. When fainting nature called for aid, And hovering death prepared the blow, His vigorous remedy displayed The power of art without the show. In misery's darkest cavern known, His useful care was ever nigh, Where hopeless anguish poured his groan, And lonely want retired to die. No summons, mocked by chill delay, No petty gain disdained by pride The modest wants of every day, The toil of every day supplied. His virtues walked their narrow round, Nor made a pause, nor left a void And sure the Eternal Master found The single talent well employed. The busy day, the peaceful night, Unfelt, uncounted, glided by His frame was firm, his powers were bright, Though now his eightieth year was nigh. Then, with no fiery, throbbing pain, No cold gradations of decay, Death broke at once the vital chain, And freed his soul the nearest way. 1782. -Johnson. ' Do you remember the verses, the sacred verses, which Johnson wrote on the death of his humble friend Levet ? Whose name looks the brightest now, that of Queensbury the wealthy duke, or Selwyn the wit, or Levet the poor physician ? '@-@Thackera
A TRAVELLER STOPPED AT A WIDOW@S GATE. A traveller stopped at a widow's gate She kept an inn and he wanted to bait, But the landlady slighted her guest For, when Nature was making an ugly race, She certainly moulded this traveller's face, As a sample for all the rest. @@The chambermaid's sides they were ready to crack, When she saw the queer nose and the hump on his back A hump isn't handsome no doubt And, though 'tis confessed that the prejudice goes Very strong in favour of wearing a nose, A nose shouldn't look like a snout, A bag full of gold on the table he laid, 'T had a wond'rous effect on the widow and maid, And they quickly grew marvellous civil The money immediately altered the case, They were charmed with his hump, and his snout, and his face, Though he still might have frightened the  evening as I walked by the rocks of Mile, Having all things ready, just going to see a friendnd There I espied a young man, of wit and beauty brig@@@ht And to my sad misfortune he proved @my heart's delight. I cannot blame this young man, because he did not know, That love's the sole occasion of my sorrow, grief and woe, I'm afraid the want of money will my sad ruin prove, One look of his sweet countenance would cure the pains of love. We'll send for Dr. Stafford, he being a man of noted skill, To see the Weaver's Daughter, who's lying very ill. Then in came Dr. Stafford, likewise his brother John, Also the Doctor's 'prentice, when they all three came in. She lifted up her drowsy head, with a heavy sigh said she, I pray you Doctor Stafford, now use me tenderly, For I am bad and very bad, and in a deep decay Come, Doctor Stafford, near to me, and hand a drink I pray. He handed her a drink and not one word could he say, The tears came rolling down her cheeks, on the pillow where she lay He slipped off his shoes and behind her then he went, And for three weeks and better he did her well attend. The very last words that e'er she spoke, her voice was slow but clear, All goodness be my darling's guide he's the boy that I love dear. I am a sporting young man, scarce eighteen years of age, And many are the pretty girls, who have been with me engaged, Many are the pretty girls who've fallen in love with me, But the Weaver's Daughter loved me best, and she died for love of me. One evening as I walked down by my father's land, A waugh came o'er my shoulder, which put me to a stand. The neighbours they were pleas'd to say her spirit doth haunt me I am sure they are mistaken, for she laid no blame on me. Then straightway into Bedlam this young man is confin'd, He's quite bereft of senses, and even changed his mind,d, Her spirit came up to him, and said young man revive For I never was ordained to be your wedded wife.  at the door, like a sack While the landlady touching the chink, Cried, Sir, should you travel this country again, I heartily hope that the sweetest of men Will stop at the widow's to drink. THE MOUNTAIN MAID. The mountain maid from her bower has hied And sped to the glassy river's side, Where the radiant moon shone clear and bright, And the willows waved in a silver light. On a mossy bank lay a shepherd swain, He woke his pipe to tuneful strain, And so blythly gay were the notes he played, That he charmed the ear of the Mountain Maid. She stopped with timid fear oppressed While a soft sigh swell'd the gentle breast, He caught her glance and marked her sigh, And triumph laughed in his sparkling eye. So softly sweet was his tuneful ditty@ He charmed ner tender soul to pity And so blithely gay were the notes he played, That he won the heart of the Mountain Maid. 76 Geo. Walker, Jun., Printer, Sadler-@Street, Durham.
 played long, Gray stept to it, and recouered againe the money that Cole had lost. But while they were thus playing, the rest being delighted in contrary matters euery man satisfied his owne humour. Tom Doue called for musicke, William of Worcester for wine, Sutton set his delight in hearing merry tales, Simon of South-hampton got him into the kitchin, and to the pottage pot he goes, for he esteemed more a messe of pottage, then of a venizon pasty. Now sir, Cutbert of Kendall was of another mind, for no meate pleased him so well as mutton, such as was laced in a red petti-coate. And you shall vnderstand, that alwayes when they went to dice, they got into Bosomes Inne which was so called of his name that kept it, who being a foule slouen, went alwayes with his nose in his bosome, and one hand in his pocket, the other on his staffe, figuring forth a description of cold Winter, for he alwayes wore two coates,two caps, two or three paire of stockings, and a high paire of shooes, ouer the which he drew on a great paire of lined slippers, and yet would oft com-plaine of cold wherefore of all men generally he was called Old Bosome, and his house Bosomes Inne. This lump of cold ice had lately married a young wife, who was as wily as she was wanton, and in her com-pany did Cutbert onely delight, and the better to make passage to his loue, he would often thus commune with her I muse, good wife, quoth he. Good wife, quoth she Verily sir, in mine opinion, there is none good but God, and therefore call me Mistresse. Then said Cut-@OF T
 only by his mathematicall glasses, which made the whole towne in an uprore, for none did know how it came whilest that they were quenching of the same Fryer Bacon did wave his flagge upon which signall given, the king set upon the towne, and tooke it with little or no resistance. Thus through the art of this learned man the king got this strong towne, which hee could not doe with all his men without Fryer Bacons helpe. How Fryer Bacon over-came the German coniurer Van-dermast, and made a spirit of his owne carry him into Germany. THE king of England after hee had taken the town shewed great mercy to the inhabitants, giving some of them their lives freely, and others he set at liberty for their gold the towne hee kept at his owne, and swore the chiefe citizens to be his true subiects. Presently after the king of France sent an ambassadour to the king of England for to intreat a peace betweene them. This ambassadour being come to the king, he feasted him as it is the manner of princes to doe and with the best sports as he had then, welcomed him. The ambas-sadour seeing the king of England so free in his love, desired likewise to give him some taste of his good liking, and to that intent sent for one of his fellowes being a Germane, and named Vandermast a famous coniurer, who being come, hee told the king, that since his grace had been so bountiful in his love to him, 
 top whereof a sacred chapell was, And eke a little Hermitage thereby, Wherein an aged holy man did lie, That day and night said his devotion, Ne other worldly business did apply His name was hevenly Contemplation Of God and goodness was his meditation. -@The Faery Queene, i. 10. XXIX. THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS. AND is there care in Heaven? And is there love In heavenly spirits to these creatures bace, That may compassion of their evilles move ? There is or else more wretched were the cace Of men than beasts. But O ! the exceeding grace Of highest God, that loves his creatures so, And all his works with mercy doth embrace, That blessed angels he sends to and fro, To serve to wicked man,@-@to serve his wicked foe. How oft do they their silver bowers leave, To come to succour us that succour want ! How oft do they with golden pinions cleave The flitting skies, like flying pursuivant, Against fowle feendes to ayd us militant They for us fight, they watch and dewly ward, And their bright squadrons round about us plant And all for love, and nothing for reward. O ! why should hevenly God to men have such regard ? -Ib., ii. 
 the tender bloom of heart is gone, ere youth itself be past. Then the few whose spirits float above the wreck of happiness Are driven o'er the shoals of guilt or ocean of excess The magnet of their course is gone, or only points in vain The shore to which their shivered sail shall never stretch again. Then the mortal coldness of the soul like death itself comes down It cannot feel for others' woes, it dare not dream its own That heavy chill has frozen o'er the fountain of our tears, And though the eye may sparkle still, 'tis where the ice appears. Though wit may flash from fluent lips, and mirth distract the breast, Through midnight hours that yield no more their former hope of rest 'Tis but as ivy-leaves around the ruined turret wreathe, All green and wildly fresh without, but worn and gray beneath. O could I feel as I have felt, or be what I have been, Or weep as I could once have wept o'er many a vanished scene, As springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though the@y be, So 'midst the withered waste of life, those tears would flow to me ! -@Byron. ' I pique myself on these lines being the truest though the most melancholy I ever wrote.'@-@Letter to Moor
 With that certaine musicians of the towne came to the chamber, and knowing Master Cole was there, drue out their instruments, and very solemnly began to play. This musicke comes very well said Cole and when he had listned a while thereunto, he said, Me thinks these instrumets sound like the ring of St. Mary Oueries bells, but the Base drowns all the rest and in my eare it goes like a bell that rings a forenoones knell, for Gods sake let them leaue off, and beare them this simple reward. The Musicians being gone, his Oast asked if now it would please him to goe to bed for quoth he it is welneere eleuen of the clocke. With that Cole beholding his Oast and Oastesse earnestly, began to start backe, saying, what aile you to looke so like pale death ? good Lord, what haue you done, that your hands are thus bloody ? Whatmy hands, said his Oast ? W@hy, you may see they are neither bloody nor foule either your eyes doe greatly dazell, or else fancies of a troubled minde doe delude you. Alas, my Oast, you may see, said hee, how weake my wits are, I neuer had my head so idle before. Come, let me drinke once more, and then I will to bed, and trouble you no longer. With that hee made himselfe vnready, and his Oastesse was very diligent to warme a kerchiffe, and put it about his head. Good Lord, said he, I am not sicke, I praise God, but such an alteration I finde in my selfe as I neuer did before. With that the scritch-owle cried pitiously, and an
 the duke of Normandy made a proclamation thrughout his lande, how men sholde take Robert his sone, with al his company, and brynge them everychone to pryson. THAN spake a wyse lorde, sayinge thus, my lorde take noo more thought for ye shall never se the day that Robert your sone wyll come in your presence in so moche, as he hath done so grete and greuouse offences to your comons, and your owne messengers that ye sende for hym but it were of necessite for you to correct and punysshe hym for hys grete offences, that he dayly doth, and hath done, for we fynde it wryten, that the lawe byndeth you therto. The duke wyllynge to accomplyshe the councel of his lordes sende out messangers in all the hast, unto all the portes, good townes and barons, throughout all his dukedome com-mandynge on his behalfe all shryues, baylufes, or other offycers to doo theyr uttermoost dylygence to take Robert his sone prysoner and to holde and kepe hym surely in pryson with all his company and affinyte. Whan Roberte herde of this proclamation, he with all his company were sore aferde of the dukes malyce and whan Robert se this he was almost out of his wyt for wode angre and wheted hys teeth lyke a bore, and sware a grete othe saynge thus, that he wolde have open war with his fader, and subdewe and spyll all his lordshypp
 it was an office most necessary in the Common-wealth, yet did the poorest wretch despise it, that liued in any estimation among his neighbours. At last, a couple of Flemings, which were fled into this Land, by reason that their Country was drowned with the sea, hearing the Proclamation, offered themselues vnto the Bayliffes, to serue in this place, who were pre-sently receiued and accepted and according to order had garments giuen them, which were of 2. colors, blue and red their coates, breeches and stockings, whereby they were knowne and discerned from other men. Within halfe a yeere after, it came to passe, that Thomas Doue of Exeter came vp to London, who hauing by his iollity and goodfellowship, brought himselfe greatly behind hand, was in danger to diuers men of the Cite, among the rest, one of his Creditors feed an Officer to arrest him. The Dutch-man that had not beene long experienced in such matters, and hearing how many of his fellowes had beene killed for attempting to arrest men, stood quiuering and quaking in a corner of the street to watch for Thomas Doue, and hauing long waited, at length he espied him whereupon he prepared his mace ready, and with a pale countenance proceeded to his Office at what time comming behind the man, suddenly with his mace he knockt him on the pate, say-ing, I arrest you, giuing him such a blow, that he fell him to the ground. The Catchpole thinking he had killed the man, he left his mace behind him and ranne away the Credit
 scatter plenty o'er a smiling land, And read their history in a nation's eyes, Their lot forbad nor circumscribed alone Their growing virtues, but their crimes confined Forbad to wade through slaughter to a throne, And shut the gates of mercy on mankind, The struggling pangs of conscious truth to hide, To quench the blushes of ingenuous shame, Or heap the shrine of Luxury and Pride With incense kindled at the Muse's flame. Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife, Their sober wishes never learned to stray Along the cool sequestered vale of life They kept the noiseless tenor of their way. Yet e'en these bones from insult to protect Some frail memorial still erected nigh, With uncouth rhymes and shapeless sculpture decked Implores the passing tribute of a sigh. Their name, their years, spelt by the unlettered Muse, The place of fame and elegy supply And many a holy text around she strews, That teach the rustic moralist to die. For who, to dumb Forgetfulness a prey, This pleasing anxious being e'er resigned, Left the warm precincts of the cheerful day, Nor cast one longing ling'ring look behind ? On some fond breast the parting soul@ relies, Some pious drops the closing eye requires E'en from the tomb the voice of Nature cries, E'en in our ashes live their wonted fire
 with crowds of customers. For these reasons the town has a great appearance of prosperity, and all its people go about the streets with the air of those who find little difficulty in keeping the wolf from their doors and are able to lay up a little store for rainy days. In many ways the contrast between St. Pierre and the British towns we had visited was very marked@-@a contrast that other visitors to the Caribbees have not failed to notice@-@but not for a deed or a gift of the whole lovely Colombian Archipelago can I be induced to say one word that might maliciously be tortured into a reproach of the Anglo-Creoles for assuredly it does not lie in the mouth of any traveller who has been a welcome guest at the groaning tables of Kittefonians and Antiguans, or who has been entertained, as I afterward was, at the Ice House in Bridgetown, Barbados, to grumble or find fault even with the dust on the streets of people who keep their houses swept and garnished, their doors wide open, and their tables spread for the entertainment of foreigners, no matter whether their guests arrive in yacht or man-of-war or are cast away on their coasts by the wreck of clumsy merchantmen. It were churlish indeed to find fault with any custom or to dwell critically upon any shortcoming of these hospitable people, who, as hosts, live up to their green turtle. Anthony Trollope, who may be accepted as a writer entitled to his opinion on this as on all other subjects, in his delightful book, The West Indies and the Spanish Main, after reluctantly confessing his surprise at the great superiority of the French West Indian towns to those which belong to Great Britain, ventures to draw a comparison between the manners and customs of the English creoles and the habits of life of their neighbors, the inhabitants of Martinique and Guadeloupe. He de-clares that the neatness and orderly management of the French cities and villages and the contrasting slovenliness and disorder of the British towns are due entirely to natural causes, which he formulates as follows The French colonists, whether creoles or Europeans, consider the West Indies their country they cast no wishful eyes toward Franc
CHAPTER III. ST. CHRISTOPHER. St. Kitt's Liamuiga, the Fertile.@-@Historical Notes.@-@Governor's Warner and DEsnam-buc.@-@English and French Settlement of St. Christopher.@-@Final Banishment of the French.@-@Sunrise in Basseterre Roadstead.@-@The Fleet of Bumboats.@-@At-tacked by Fruit-sellers and Washerwomen.@-@Effecting a Landing. THE Caribs, the ancient and warlike people once the lords of the beau-tiful island where we had cast anchor, called it Liamuiga the Fer-tile , and well does it deserve that name. Columbus, passing near it in November, 1493, on his way from Dominica to Hispaniola, being charmed with its loveliness and finding it very pleasant, as we are told by an ancient chronicler, would needs give it his name. He was engaged to give it this name from a consideration of the figure of its mountain, the island having at its upper part, as it were upon one of its shoulders, another lesser mountain, as St. Christopher is painted carry-ing our Saviour upon his, as it were a little child. The English, upon taking possession of the island many years afterward, rechristened their newly acquired colony, calling it St. Kitt's, by which name St. Christopher is now generally known. Columbus did not tarry long at the land that found such favor in his sight indeed, it is by no means certain that he or any of his crew landed upon it, being eager to arrive at the continent which their imagination pictured to them lying within a few days' sail of the newly discovered archipelago. There is no evi-dence that the Spaniards made an attempt at any time to establish a settlement on the island. Its fertile, forest-covered valleys and hill-sides had no attractions for them@-@its rugged hills yielded no gold,
 the wine was growne so thicke, that it might haue beene cut like a Ielly. A@nd in that place also they saw the money that was made of leather, which in an-cient time went currant amongst the people. When they had to their great contentation beheld all this, they repaired to their lodgings, hauing also a sumptuous supper ordained for them, with all delight that might be. And you shall vnderstand, that when the Country Weauers, which came up with their dames, saw the Weauers of Candlewike-street, they had great desire presently to haue some conference with them @@and thus one began to challenge the other for worke-manship quoth Weasell, Ile worke with any of you all for a crowne, take if you dare, and he that makes his yard of cloth soonest, shall haue it. You shall he wrought withall, said the other, and if it were for ten crownes but we will make this bargaine, that each of vs shall winde their owne quilles. Content, quoth Weasell and so to worke they went, but Weasell lost. Whereupon another of them tooke the matter in hand, who lost likewise so that the London Weauers trium-phed against the Country, casting forth diuers frumps. Alas poore fellowes, quoth they, your hearts are good, but your hands are ill. Tush the fault was in their legs, quoth another, pray you friend, were you not borne at home ? Why doe you aske, quoth Weasell ? Because, said hee, the biggest place of your legge is next to your shooe. Crab hearing this, being Cholericke of nature, chaf
 of Reading contains many curious allu-sions to manners and customs now obsolete and, though grounds of origin for several circumstances@ are stated which are not strictly borne out by histo-rical research, much curious information may be gleaned from it. It would be tedious to illustrate every point to which our attention might be drawn but the allusion to the Gibbet Law of Halifax, which was in full force at the time our author wrote, seems to justify some notice. The custom is supposed to have originated when the manor of Wakefield of which Halifax was part was bestowed on Earl Warren for in the reign of King Edward I. at the pleas of assizes and jurats at the borough of Scar-borough, John Earl of Warren and Surry, answering to a writ of quo warranto, said, That he claimed Gallows at Coningsburgh and Wakefield, and the power of doing what belonged to a gallows in all his lands and fees, and that he and all his ancestors had used the same from time immemorial, c. The law or custom as regards Halifax appears to have been to the effect that, 1st. The thief was to be taken within the liberty, and if he escaped out of the liberty he could not be brought back to be executed but if ever he returned again, and was taken, he was sure to suffer, as was 
 like an infant's smile, over the dead A light of laughing flowers along the grass is spread, 50. And grey walls moulder round, on which dull Time Feeds, like slow fire upon a hoary brand And one keen pyramid with wedge sublime, Pavilioning the dust of him who planned This refuge for his memory, doth stand Like flame transformed to marble and beneath A field is spread, on which a newer band Have pitched in heaven's smile their camp of death, Welcoming him we lose with scarce extinguished breath. 51. Here pause. These graves are all too young as yet To have outgrown the sorrow which consigned Its charge to each and, if the seal is set Here on one fountain of a mourning mind, Break it not thou ! too surely shalt thou find Thine own well full, if thou returnest home, Of tears and gall. From the world's bitter wind Seek shelter in the shadow of the tomb. What Adonais is why fear we to become ? 52. The One remains, the many change and pass Heaven's light for ever shines, earth's shadows fly Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass, Stains the white radiance of eternity, Until Death tramples it to fragments.@-@Die, If thou wouldst be with that which thou dost seek ! Follow where all is fled ! Rome's azure sky, Flowers, ruins, statues, music,@-@words are weak The glory they transfuse with fitting truth to spea
 next to him malicious ENVY rode. Upon a ravenous wolfe, and still did chaw Between his cankred teeth, a venomous tode, That all the poison ran about his chaw But inwardly he chawed his owne maw At neighbours' welth, that made him ever sad, For death it was, when any good he saw And wept, that cause of weeping none he had But when he heard of harme he wexed wondrous glad. All in a kirtle of discoloured say He clothed was, ypaynted full of eies And in his bosome secretly there lay An hatefull Snake, the which his taile uptyes In many folds, and mortal sting implyes. Still as he rode he gnasht his teeth to see Those heapes of gold with griple Covetyse And grudged at the great felicitee Of proud Lucifera, and his owne companee. He hated all good workes and vertuous deeds, And him no lesse, that any like did use And who with gratious bread the hungry feeds, His almes for want of faith he doth accuse. So every good to bad he doth abuse And eke the verse of famous Poets' witt He does backebite, and spightfull poison spues From leprous mouth on all that ever writt. Such one vile Envy was, that fifte in row did sitt. And him beside rides fierce revenging WRATH, Upon a Lion, loth for to be led And in his hand a burning brond he hath. The which he brandisheth about his hed His eies did hurle forth sparcles fiery re
'IT is an awful truth, that there neither is nor can be any genuine enjoyment of poetry among nineteen out of twenty of those persons who live, or wish to live, in the broad light of the world@-@among those who either are, or are striving to make themselves people of consideration in society. This is a truth, and an awful one because to be incapable of a feeling of poetry, in my sense of the word, is to be without love of human nature and rever-ence for God. ' Upon this I shall insist elsewhere at present let me confine myself to my object, which is to make you, my dear friend, as easy-hearted as myself with respect to these poems. Trouble not yourself upon their present reception. Of what moment is that compared with what I trust is their destiny@?@-@to console the afflicted to add sunshine to daylight, by making the happy happier to teach the young and the gracious of every age to see, to think, and feel, and, therefore, to become more actively and securely virtuous this is their office, which I trust they will faithfully perform, long after we that is, all that is mortal of us are mouldered in our graves.' -@Wordsworth to Lady Beaumont, 180
 saynge thus O moost reuerente lady moder, I hertely beseche and requyre you that it wilde please you to haue me recommaunded unto my fader for I wyll take the waye to Rome to be assoyled of my synnes, whiche are innumerable, andtoabhomynabletorecounte. Therefore I wyll neuer slepe one nyght there I slepe an other tyll I come at Rome, and god wyll. Howe Robert departed from his moder, and rode into the wyldernesse where he founde his companye. ROBERT in grete haste lyght upon his horse and rode to the wode where he had lefte his companye the whiche he founde. The duchesse made grete lamentacyon for her sone Robert, whiche had taken his leue of her, and sayd many tymes to herselfe, Alas what shall I do for it is all my faute that Roberte my sone hath done so moche myschefe and in the meane whyle that the duchesse made this sorowe and bewayllynge for her sone Robert, in came the duke into the chambre, and as soone as she sawe hym she began to tell hym of his sone Robert pyteously wepynge shewynge hym what he had sayd and done, than the good duke axed whether Robert were disposed to leue his vycyous lyfe, and yf he were sory for his grete offences, Ye my lorde sayd she, he is sorerepentaunce thenbegan the Duke sore to sygh, and sayd, Alas it is all in vayne, that Robert thynketh to do, for I here he shall neuer have power to make resty tycyon of thehurtes and harmes the whiche he hathe doone in his lyfe, but I besec
 but must laugh, if such a man there be ? Who would not weep, if Atticus were he ? @@@@1735. -@Prologue to the Satires. CCXXII. FROM THE SPLEEN. TO cure the mind's wrong bias, Spleen, Some recommend the bowling-green Some, hilly walks all, exercise Fling but a stone, the giant dies, Laugh, and be well. Monkeys have been Extreme good doctors for the Spleen And kitten, if the humour hit, Has harlequined away the fit. . . . Forced by soft violence of prayer, The blithesome goddess soothes my care, I feel the deity inspire, And thus she models my desire -Two hundred pounds half-yearly paid, Annuity securely made, A farm some twenty miles from town, Small, tight, salubrious, and my own Two maids, that never saw the town, A serving-man not quite a clown, A boy to help to tread the mow, And drive, while t' other holds the plough A chief, of temper formed to please, Fit to converse, and keep the keys And better to preserve the peace, Commissioned by the name of niece With understandings of a size To think their master very wise. May heaven it's all I wish for send One genial room to treat a friend, Where decent cupboard, little plat
 pursuing, now retreating, Now in circling troops they meet To brisk notes in cadence beating Glance their many-twinkling feet. Slow melting strains their Queen's approach declare Where'er she turns the Graces homage pay With arms sublime, that float upon the air, In gliding state she wins her easy way O'er her warm cheek and rising bosom move The bloom of young Desire and purple light of Love. II. 1. Man's feeble race what ills await ! Labour, and Penury, the racks of Pain, Disease, and Sorrow's weeping train, And Death, sad refuge from the storms of Fate ! The fond complaint, my song, disprove, And justify the laws of Jove. Say, has he given in vain the heavenly Muse ? Night and all her sickly dews, Her spectres wan, and birds of boding cry, He gives to range the dreary sky Till down the eastern cliffs afar Hyperion's march they spy, and glittering shafts of war. II. 2. In climes beyond the solar road, Where shaggy forms o'er ice-built mountains roam, The Muse has broke the twilight gloom To cheer the shivering native's dull abode. And oft, beneath the odorous shade Of Chili's boundless forests laid, She deigns to hear the savage youth repeat, In loose numbers wildly swee
 s hath decreed, Like laws of Persia and of Mede, Sacred through all the realms of Wit, Must never of repeal admit Who, cursing flattery, is the tool Of every fawning, flattering fool Who wit with jealous eye surveys, And sickens at another's praise Who, proudly seized of learning's throne, Now damns all learning but his own Who scorns those common wares to trade in, Reasoning, convincing, and persuading, But makes each sentence current pass With ' puppy,' ' coxcomb,' ' scoundrel,' ' ass ' For 'tis with him a certain rule That folly's proved when he calls ' Fool ! ' Who to increase his native strength Draws words six syllables in length, With which, assisted with a frown By way of club, he knocks us down. . . . His comrades' terrors to beguile, Grinned horribly a ghastly smile Features so horrid, were it light, Would put the devil himself to flight. -@Churchill. From The Ghost, bk. ii. CCLI. INDEPENDENCE. NATURE I'll court in her sequestered haunts, By mountain, meadow, streamlet, grove, or cell Where the poised lark his evening ditty chants, And health, and peace, and contemplation dwell. There, Study shall with Solitude recline, And Friendship pledge me to his fellow-swain
 the cheerful haunt of men and herds, And sits as safe as in a senate house For who would rob a hermit of his weeds, His few books, or his beads, or maple dish, Or do his gray hairs any violence ? But Beauty, like the fair Hesperian tree, Laden with blooming gold, had need the guard Of dragon-watch with unenchanted eye To save her blossoms, and defend her fruit, From the rash hand of bold Incontinence. You may as well spread out the unsunned heaps Of miser's treasure by an outlaw's den, And tell me it is safe, as bid me hope Danger will wink on Opportunity, And let a single helpless maiden pass Uninjured in this wild surrounding waste. Of night or loneliness it recks me not I fear the dread events that dog them both, Lest some ill-greeting touch attempt the person Of our unowned sister. Eld. Br. I do not, brother, Infer, as if I thought my sister's state Secure without all doubt or controversy Yet where an equal poise of hope and fear Does arbitrate the event, my nature is That I incline to hope rather than fear, And gladly banish squint suspicion. My sister is not so defenceless left As you imagine she has a hidden strength Which you remember not. Sec. Br. What hidden strength ?@-Unless the strength of Heaven, if you mean that. Eld. Br. I mean that too, but yet a hidden strength, Which, if Heaven gave it, may be termed her own. S
 Emperour's doughter thrughe the grace of God began for to speke the fyrst worde that ever she spake in her lyfe. THAN as the emperour with all his estate was come in to the chyrche, the emperour's doughter whiche was dumbe, sholde marye the senesshall, there dyde our lorde a fayre myracle, for the loue of the holy man Robert, to the entente he sholde be exalted, whome euery body helde fer a fole and with hym mocked. Whan the preest sholde begyn the seruyce, and to marye the senesshall and this yonge mayde togyder, the doughter thrughe the grace of God began to speke to the e@mperoure her fader in this wyse Fader I holde you not wyse, but fer ouer sene in that ye byleue that this proude folysshe traytoure telleth you, for all that he telleth you is lyes but here in this towne is a holy and deuoute persone, for whose sake God hath gyuen me my speche, wherfore I loue hym in my herte, for I haue alwaye sene and marked his valyance and holynes, but noo man wolde byleue me what poyntynge or sygnes thatImade thennetheemperourethisherynge, was almoost oute of his mynde for joye, whan he herde his doughter thus speke, the whiche neuer spake before, wherby he knewe well ynough that the senesshall hadde betrayed and deceyued hym the senesshall this herynge, was wode angry and foule ashamed, and lyghten upon his horse and rode awaye and all his companye. The pope beyng presente axed the mayden who the man was that she spoke of, that the may
 as I oft am wont, of thee, Works of day past, or morrow's next design, But of offence and trouble, which my mind Knew never till this irksome night. Methought, Close at mine ear one called me forth to walk With gentle voice I thought it thine. It said, Why sleep'st thou, Eve ? now is the pleasant time, The cool, the silent, save where silence yields To the night-warbling bird, that now awake Tunes sweetest his love-laboured song now reigns Full-orbed the moon, and with more pleasing light Shadowy sets off the face of things, in vain If none regard. Heaven wakes with all his eyes, Whom to behold but thee, Nature's desire ? In whose sight all things joy, with ravishment Attracted by thy beauty still to gaze. I rose as at thy call, but found thee not To find thee I directed then my walk And on, methought, alone I passed through ways That brought me on a sudden to the tree Of interdicted knowledge fair it seemed, Much fairer to my fancy than by day And, as I wondering looked, beside it stood One shaped and winged like one of those from Heaven By us oft seen his dewy locks distilled Ambrosia. On that tree he also gazed And, O fair plant, said he, with fruit surcharged, Deigns none to ease thy load and taste thy sweet, Nor god, nor man ? Is knowledge so despised ? Or envy, or what reserve, forbids to taste ? Forbid who will, none shall from me withhold Longer thy offered good, why else set here ? This said, he pau sed not, but with venturous a
 wide, the unbounded prospect lies before me But shadows, clouds, and darkness rest upon it. Here will I hold -@If there's a Power above us And that there is all Nature cries aloud Through all her works , he must delight in virtue And that which he delights in must be happy. But@-@when?@-@or where ?@-@This world was made for Caesar. I'm weary of conjectures. This must end them. Laying his ha@nd on his sword. Thus am I doubly armed my death and life, My bane and antidote, are both before me. This in a moment brings me to an end, But this informs me I shall never die. The soul, secured in her existence, smiles At the drawn dagger, and defies its point. The stars shall fade away, the sun himself Grow dim with age, and nature sink in years But thou shalt flourish in immortal youth, Unhurt amid the war of elements, The wreck of matter, and the crash of worlds. 1713. -@Addison's Cato. CCIX. A NOCTURNAL REVERIE. IN such a night, when every louder wind Is to its distant cavern safe confined, And only gentle Zephyr fans his wings, And lonely Philomel, still waking, sings, Or from some tree, framed for the owl's delight,  Reverie of Lady Winchilsea, and a passage or two in the Windsor Forest of Pope, the poetry of the period intervening between the publication of Paradise Lost and the Seasons does not contain a single new image of external nature,'@-Wordsworth, Lyrical Ballads, 181
 owners set not up for beaux. True genuine dulness moved his pity, Unless it offered to be witty. Those who their ignorance confest, He ne'er offended with a jest But laughed to hear an idiot quote A verse from Horace learned by rote. . . . He gave the little wealth he had To build a house for fools and mad And showed by one satiric touch, No nation wanted it so much. -Swift. CCXXI. POPE ON ADDISON. PEACE to all such ! but were there one whose fires True genius kindles, and fair fame inspires Blest with each talent and each art to please, And born to write, converse, and live with ease Should such a man, too fond to rule alone, Bear, like the Turk, no brother near the throne, View him with scornful, yet with jealous eyes, And hate for arts that caused himself to rise Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer, And, without sneering, teach the rest to sneer Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike Alike reserved to blame, or to commend, A timorous foe, and a suspicious friend Dreading e'en fools, by flatterers besieged, And so obliging, that he ne'er obliged Like Cato, give his little senate laws, And sit attentive to his own applause While wits and Templars every sentence raise, And wonder with a foolish face of prais
 him said sonne I will performe my promise unto you if that you will seale to the conditions that I have here already drawne willingly said the gentleman, I will, I pray read them. The Devill read them to this effect that he lent him so much money as he should have need of, to be imployedto these uses following First, to redeeme his mortgaged land next to pay his debts lastly, to buy him such necessaries as hee wanted this to be lent on this condition, that so soone as he had paid all debts, that he should be at the lenders disposing, and his without any delay, freely to yeeld himselfe to him upon the first demand of the aforesaid lender. To this the gentleman sealed, and had the money carried to his chamber, with which money hee in short time redeemed his land, and bought such things as he needed, and like-wise payed all his debts, so that there was not any man that could aske him one penny. Thus lived this gentleman once againe in great credit, and grew so great a husband that he increased his estate, and was richer then ever his father before him was b@ut long did this joy of his not continue, for one day hee being in his studie the Devil appeared unto him, and did tell him that now his land was redeemed, and his debts paid, and therefore the time was come that hee must yeeld himselfe to his mercy, as hee was bound by bond. This troubled the gentleman to heare, but more to thinke how that he must become a slave to a stranger that hee did not know for hee knew not as yet that he was the Devill but being urged to answer f
 uncouth dream, of evil sprung I fear Yet evil whence ? in thee can harbour none, Created pure. But know, that in the soul Are many lesser faculties, that serve Reason as chief among these Fancy next Her office holds of all external things, Which the five watchful senses represent, She forms imaginations, airy shapes, Which Reason, joining or disjoining, frames All what we affirm or what deny, and call Our knowledge or opinion then retires Into her private cell when Nature rests. Oft in her absence mimic Fancy wakes To imitate her, but, misjoining shapes, Wild work produces oft, and most in dreams, Ill matching words and deeds long past or late. Some such resemblances, methinks, I find Of our last evening's talk in this thy dream. But with addition strange yet be not sad Evil into the mind of god or man May come and go, so unapproved, and leave No spot or blame behind which gives me hope That what in sleep thou didst abhor to dream Waking thou never wilt consent to do. Be not disheartened then, nor cloud those looks, That wont to be more cheerful and serene Than when fair Morning first smiles on the world And let us to our fresh employments rise Among the groves, the fountains, and the flowers That open now their choicest bosomed smells, Reserved from night, and kept for thee in store.' So cheered he his fair spouse, and she was cheered, But silently a gentle tear let fa
 oft before his infant eyes would run Such forms, as glitter in the Muse's ray With orient hues, unborrowed of the sun Yet shall he mount, and keep his distant way Beyond the limits of a vulgar fate, Beneath the Good how far@-@but far above the Great. 1755. -Gray. CCXLVI. THE BARD. A PINDARIC ODE. The following ode is founded on a tradition current in Wales that Edward I., when he completed the conquest of that country, ordered all the bards that fell into his hands to be put to death. -@Gray. I. 1. ' RUIN seize thee, ruthless king ! Confusion on thy banners wait, Though fanned by Conquest's crimson wing, They mock the air with idle state. Helm, nor hauberk's twisted mail, Nor even th@y virtues, Tyrant, shall avail To save th@y secret soul from nightly fears, From Cambria's curse, from Cambria's tears ! ' Such were the sounds that o'er the crested pride Of the first Edward scattered wild dismay, As down the steep of Snowdon's shaggy side He wound with toilsome march his long array. Stout Gloster stood aghast in speechless trance ' To arms !@' cried Mortimer, and couched his quiver-ing lance. I. 2. On a rock, whose haughty brow Frowns o'er old Conway's foaming flood@ Robed in the sable garb of woe, With haggard eyes the Poet stood Loose his beard, and hoary ha
 remarkably large. Belgium, the most thickly populated country in Europe, contains but 440 people to the square mile therefore it would appear that Martinique is one of the most densely inhabited parts of the globe. When we recall the fact that in the whole island there are but 80,000 acres under cultivation, we may well wonder how it is possible for so many human beings to find subsistence, or how even a small proportion of them can find work of any kind to keep their idle fingers from picking and stealing. Nearly ninety per cent. of the in-habitants of Martinique are of pure negro blood, or have African blood in their veins. It is said the half-breeds predominate, for the reason that white and black races have mingled more freely than has been the case on the islands belonging to Great Britain. The colored people of Martinique are, it is said, more prosperous, better fed and cared for, more ambitious of getting on in the world, and consequently more industrious and intelligent, than the blacks on other islands. I can hardly credit the statement, made in my hearing while on the island, by a French creole, who presumably had no intent or desire to exaggerate its grossness, that sixty-six per cent. of all the children born on the island are of illegitimate birth. If this be true, I can imagine a more hideous social condition does not exist elsewhere in the so-called civilized world, unless it be among the negroes on the island of Hayti, for instance, where the blacks are rapidly returning to a state of barbarism more cruel and degraded, more hopeless than that in which their ancestors were found when their enslavers brought them from Africa. Late in the afternoon the Barracouta announced her arrival in the roadstead of St. Pierre by firing a salute, which was so promptly an-swered from shore that the report of the cannon on land sounded like the echo of the ship's brass twelve-pounder. The darkies that came to meet us in a flotilla of small boats made as great an outcry as did their dusky brethren at the other ports we had visited, but, unlike the Kittefonian or Antiguan darkies, who jabbered an almost unintelligi-ble English dialect, the Martinique colored folks jabbered a perfect
 BURIAL OF SIR JOHN MOORE. Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note, As his corpse to the rampart we hurried Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot O'er the grave where our hero we buried. We buried him darkly at dead of night, The sods with our bayonets turning By the struggling moonbeam's misty light, And the lantern dimly burning. No useless coffin enclosed his breast, Not in sheet nor in shroud we wound him But he lay like a warrior taking his rest, With his martial cloak around him. † Few and short were the prayers we said, And we spoke not a word of sorrow But we steadfastly gazed on the face that was dead, And we bitterly thought of the morrow. We thought, as we hollowed his narrow bed, And smoothed down his lonely pillow, That the foe and the stranger would tread o'er his head, And we far away on the billow ! Lightly they'll talk of the spirit that's gone, And o'er his cold ashes upbraid him,@-But little he'll reck, if they let him sleep on In the grave where a Briton has laid him. First published anonymously in the Newry Telegraph, 1817. † ' A question arose as to which was the most perfect ode that had been produced. Shelley contended for Coleridge's On Switzer-land others named some of Moore's Melodies, and Campbell's Hohenlinden. Lord Byron said, I will show you an ode I consider little inferior to the best which the present prolific age has produced
 which belongs to one of our Merchants, come in with a Tankerd of Water on her shoulder, and yet halfe a dozen gold rings on her fingers. You may then thinke, wife quoth he she got them not with idlenesse. But wife, you must consider what London is, the chiefe and capitall City of all the Land, a place on the which all strangers cast their eyes, it is wife the Kings Chamber and his Maiesties royall seate to that City repaires all Nations vnder heauen. Therefore it is most meete and conuenient, that the Citizens of such a City should not goe in their apparell like peasants, but for the credit of our Country, weare such seemely habits, as doe carry grauity and comelinesse in the eyes of all beholders. But if wee of the Country went so quoth she were it not as great credit for the Land as the other ? Woman, qd. her husband, it is altogether needlesse, and in diuers respects it may not be. Why then, I pray you, quoth she, let us go dwell at London. A word soone spoken, said her husband, but not so easie to be performed therefore wife, I pray thee hold thy prating, for thy talk is foolish yea, yea husband, your old churlish conditions will neuer be left, you keepe me heere like a drudge and a droile, and so you may keepe your money in your purse, you care not for your credit, but before I will goe so like a shepheardesse, I will first goe naked and I tell you plaine, I scorne it greatly, that you should clap a gray gowne on my backe, as if I had not brought you two pence before I was married, you swore I should haue any thing that I requested, b
 for it in the markets of the world, and again the cry went up, Cheaper labor, more coolies. This clamor for lower-priced muscle and brawn is but another version of the old, old story that may be summarized as follows Bad times, financial panics, high rates of interest, foreclosures, failures. The remedy Cheaper labor, more coolies. In other words, mutatis mutandis@-@more greenbacks, un-limited shinplasters, trade-dollars. Inflation in another form@-@brandy for the drunkard. The Doctor and I speedily arrived at the Tower Hotel, being pre-ceded from the landing-stage by two darkies who bore our portman-teaus on the tops of their woolly heads. The sanitary condition of the Tower was satisfactory to my companion. The welcome of mine host, the hospitable aspect of the dining-@and smoking-rooms were agreeable to me@-@both of us were attracted by the comfortable ap-pearance of the bed-chambers, and more especially by the promise of unlimited fresh water, to be had in spray or shower at any time, night or day, in well-ordered bath-rooms, situated on every floor of the hotel. We registered our names, became landsmen again, board-ers, not passengers@-@landlubbers, if you will@-@after our sea-life of nearly two weeks, and in a short time all our fellow-passengers joined us, and lodged at the hotel. All the year round, at Georgetown, the therommeter averages over 90° F., as might be expected at a city built within six degrees of the equator but not even in the height of summer is the weather as un-comfortable as the climate of New York during the heated terms of July and August. I have this statement from our captain, and he is unimpeachable authority on any of the multitudinous subjects whereof he has reason or desire to be informed. The information he cannot give concerning the climate along the regular route of the Barracouta is not to be gained by poring over almanacs. He visits Demerara, on an average, ten times a year. During the summer months he wears a straw hat when he takes his walks ashore at either end of his ocean lane his thermometer abides steadily in the nineties, all the way 
 got neither houses nor lands, No@ money in funds nor in purse, My furniture's not very grand, Some wouId think my position a curse. I m threadbare, I'm hampered with strife, On every toe I've got corns, I've a devil as law calls a wife, And all the neighbours say I've got horns. Spoken. -@Yes, I've got a wife, my wife's got a tongue, well I know it it is a tongue, it is a night tongue, it's a day tongue, in fact, it is a perpetual tongue, it hangs on a swivel and wags at both ends. Then she keeps a jackdaw and a poll-parrot to help her out with it, and when she's hard pushed she'll tread on the cat's tail to raise an extra squall, and knock down the fire-irons by way of an accompani-ment. Then there's my home, it is a home. My home resembles a battle of confusion. A hundred schoolboys playing in a court in fact, it's like a dustman's bell on one side of my ear, and a post-man's on the other. I am not unhappy, no, d-@m it, it can't last. For I never, c. Now if I speak but a word of my mind, By way of concluding my song, I hope you will all be so kind, As to think that I don't instance wrong. To see you all round me so gay, Is the happiest moment I've past, But when you are all gone away, I shall be happy because it can't last.  M the happiest man 'neath the sun, Altho' I'm chin deep in trouble, I contrive to be full of my fun, @fun, To give the blue devils the double.@@@ I'm blest with the gout and rheumatic, I'm mostly a martyr to pain, I'm lodged in a very queer attic, But I know it's no use to complain For I never meet troubles half way, Or fret after things that are past, If bad luck comes in the way, I'm happy, because it can't last. Spoken. -@What different creatures women are before marriage to what they are after it. Now my wife before marriage was as sweet and welcome to me as the first flower in spring, but as soon as the sun of matrimony shone on her, she became as changeable as tulips, proud as the poppy, thorny as a bear, stony as a plum, so@ur as a crab, sting-ing as a nettle, hot as an horseradish, deadly as nightshade, as wanton as the ivy, and as destruc-tive as slugs. There was no pleasing her nor no hoeing her. She was too deep to be dug up. I couldn't lop her, the law wouldn't wop her, then she'd run to seed every year, and the little seedlings were as wild as the parent stem. They'd neither transplant or cultivate them. There's my home, it is@@ a home. My home resembles an hospital. Poor little Tommy has been bit by a mad dog poor little Harry he's broke his leg, poor little Fanny, she's got the scarlatina, poor little Polly, she has got the whooping cough, and the blessed baby's got the measles, and I expects myself to have the smallpox shortly, and though my wife says we are reduced to one room, and that smokes, but where there's a will there's a way. If the room@ smokes, put the fire out if the children begin to squall, put them out, and if your wife begins to blow up, put on your hat and go out yourself, for it can't last. For I never,  -@No, it can't last. Now what bad judges we are of our own happiness, by scorning the warnings of the good old proverbs, for instance, they teach us to let well alone. Now I must try and make well better, and make bad worse. They say, look before you leap I jump'd out of the frying-pan into the fire. They say half a loaf is better than none at all but I wanted a whole loaf, so I threw away dirty water before I got clean. They say, two heads are better than one, so I took a wife, and caught a tartar, and found two of a trade could never agree, and proved the proverb that marry in haste, repent at leisure. They say, beauty is but skin deep, but ugliness is deeper. If beauty is but skin deep, what a fool a man must be to skim all the cream off the milk, and leave nothing but the curd to sour in his own stomach. But I'm not unhappy, oh no, for I know it can't last. CHO@RUS. For I never meet troubles half way, Or fret after things that are past, If bad luck comes in the way, I'm happy, because it can't las
 have been,@-@'tis so no more I have submitted to a new control A power is gone, which nothing can restore A deep distress hath humanized my soul.. Not for a moment could I now behold A smiling sea, and be what I have been The feeling of my loss will ne'er be old This, which I know, I speak with mind serene. Then, Beaumont, friend! who would have been the friend, If he had lived, of him whom I deplore, This work of thine I blame not, but commend This sea in anger, and that dismal shore. O 'tis a passionate work !@-@yet wise and well, Well chosen is the spirit that is here That hulk which labours in the deadly swell, This rueful sky, this pageantry of fear ! And this huge Castle, standing here sublime, I love to see the look with which it braves, Cased in the unfeeling armour of old time, The lightning, the fierce wind, and trampling waves. Farewell, farewell the heart that lives alone, Housed in a dream, at distance from the kind ! Such happiness, wherever it be known, Is to be pitied for 'tis surely blind. But welcome fortitude, and patient cheer, And frequent sights of what is to be borne ! Such sights, or worse, as are before me here -Not without hope we suffer and we mourn. -@Wordsworth. He alludes to the loss of his brother John, who was drowned in the Abergavcnny@, of which he was commander@-@the vessel having struck on a rock off Portland, on its voyage to India, 5th Feb., 1805. Line 50, ' the kind,' human being
 of the waters which ebb and flow between Trinidad and the mainland of South America, through the Serpent's Mouths, into which empty the incalculable floods of the Orinoco River. In like manner, that other island mountain-chain@-@for so we may call the Greater Antilles and the Virgin Islands@-@rises in successive leaps from the sea, beginning with a range of low hills west of the centre of Cuba, attaining great height in the eastern part of that country, whence it dips beneath the ocean again between Cuba and Hayti, to rise in the latter island to its grandest height, eight thousand feet or more, thence descending to a lesser elevation in Porto Rico, a still lower in St. Thomas and so, decreasing in size until the most easterly of the Virgin Islands is reached, the mountain-range sinks again to sea-level, and its crest is lost in the channel between Ane-gada and Sombrero. Dominica, according to the Leeward Islands Almanack, contains 186,436 acres, or 290 square miles, of which 55,000 acres are under cul-tivation. It has a coast-line of over one hundred miles the whole surface of the island is very irregular, and there is but little marshy land. I can do no better than quote from a description of Dominica written by a certain Dr. Imray, who resided for many years on the island and who is undoubtedly the best authority on all matters con-cerning the geography, botany, and physical peculiarities of this grand Caribbee. The sketch itself, from which I shall quote, originally appeared in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1848 '@Viewed from the sea,' says the doctor, '@the island has a singu-larly bold and magnificent appearance. A dark, irregular mass of lofty mountains rises abruptly from the ocean, as if suddenly upheaved from the deep by some mighty convulsion of nature. The rugged grandeur of the island is softened, on a nearer approach, by the mantle of green that everywhere covers its surface, from the sea-margin to the tops of the highest mountains. In sailing along the coast the smiling valleys, deep ravines with overhanging cliffs, and lofty, wood
 more, to spurn at your most royal image, And mock your workings in a second body. Question your royal thoughts make the case yours Be now the father, and propose a son Hear your own dignity so much profaned, See your most dreadful laws so loosely slighted, Behold yourself so by a son disdained And then imagine me taking your part, And, in your power, soft silencing your son After this cold considerance, sentence me And as you are a king, speak in your state, What I have done that misbecame my place, My person, or my liege's sovereignty. @K. You are right, Justice, and you weigh this well, Therefore, still bear the balance and the sword And I do wish your honours may increase Till you do live to see a son of mine Offend you, and obey you, as I did. So shall I live to speak my father's words -' Happy am I, that have a man so bold, That dares do justice on my proper son And no less happy, having such a son, That would deliver up his greatness so Into the hands of justice '. You did commit me For which I do commit into your hand The unstained sword that you have used to bear With this remembrance, -@that you use the same, With the like bold, just, and impartial spirit, As you have done 'gainst me. There is my hand You shall be as a father to my youth My voice shall sound as you do prompt mine ear And I will stoop and humble my intents To your well-practised wise directions. 1597. -@King Henry IV., II. v.
PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. SOME words of apology may seem necessary for adding another to the many ' Selections from the Poets,' ' Gar-lands,' ' Gems,' ' Treasuries,' ' Specimens,' and ' Class-books ' which have appeared in recent years. But, in conception as well as in plan, the present Anthology differs from its predecessors. While@-@for ex-ample-@Palgrave's Golden Treasury includes only Songs and Lyrics, and none from a living author,@-@neither in it nor in Abp. Trench's Household Book is there an extract from any of the long poems of Spenser, of Milton, of Pope, of Cowper, or of Wordsworth,@-@and the plays of Shakspere, the poems of Chaucer, of Addison and of Goldsmith are unrepresented and in Archdeacon Farrar's With the Poets the selections from the same author are all grouped together, and more thought would seem to have been given to the dulce than to the utile,@-@prettiness of effect being seemingly the chief care of editor and publishers. Again, selections having for some years past been made from the Golden Treasury for the examinations of the University of Madras, it has occurred to me that by a member of the University itself such a compilation might be made as would more fully meet the requirements of its undergraduates, both as regards matter and arrange-ment. In this Anthology the selections are so distributed that one or more sections of different books might be taken 
 with gold, pearles, and precious stones, hauing her haire like thrids of burnisht gold, hanging downe behind in manner of a princely bride about her yuory necke iewels of inestimable price were hung, and her handwrests were compassed about with bracelets of bright-shining Diamonds. The streets thorow the which she should passe, were pleasantly deckt with greene oaken boughs. Then came the young Lady most like an heauenly Angell out of her masters house, at what time all the bells in Glo-cester were solemnly rung she being led betwixt the Kings Maiestie, hauing on his Royal Robes, and Impe-riall Crowne, and the chiefe Bishop wearing his Mitre, in a Cope of cloth of gold, ouer her head a Canopy of white silke, fringed about in princely manner before her went an hundred Priests singing, and after her all the chiefe Ladies of the Land then all the wiues and Maidens of Glocester followed, with an innumerable sort of people on euery side standing to behold her. In this sort she passed on to the Cathedrall Church, where she was brought to the Nunry gate. The Lady Abbesse receiued her where the beautiful Maiden kneeling downe, made her prayer in sight of all the people then with her owne hands she vndid her virgins faire gowne, and tooke it off, and gaue it away to the poore after that, her kirtle, then her iewels, bracelets and rings, saying, Farewell the pride and vanitie of this world. The ornaments of her head were the next shee gaue away and then was shee led on o
 had long time brought them vp, yet did they nothing regard it, but behind his backe in most scorne-full sort derided him, and both in theirwords and actions greatly abuse him, reuerence they would doe none vnto him, but when they spake, it was in such malapert sort, as would grieue an honest minde to heare it. At last it came to passe, that breaking out into meere contempt, they said they would stay no longer with him, and that it was a great discredit for them, to serue a person so beggerly whereupon they thought it conue-nient to seeke for their benefits elsewhere. When the distressed man found the matter so plaine being in great griefe, he spake thus vnto them Now do I find, to my sorrow, thesmall trust that is in this false world. Why, my Masters quoth he haue you so much forgotten my former prosperity, that you nothing regard my present necessity ? In your wants I forsooke you not, in your sicknesse I left you not, nor despised you in your great pouerty it is not vnknowne, though you doe not con-sider it, that I tooke some of you vp in the high-way, othersome from your needy parents, and brought the rest from meere beggery to a house of bounty where from paltrie boyes, I brought you vp to mans state, and haue, to my great cost, taught you a trade, whereby you may liue like men. And in requitall of all my courtesie, cost and good will, will you now on a sudden forsake me ? Is this the best recompence that you can find your hearts to yeeld mee
 is farre from the minds of honest seruants. The fierce Lion is kind to those that doe him good plucke but one thorne out of his foot, and for the same he will shew manifold fauors. The wilde Bull will not ouerthrow his dam and the very Dragons are dutifull to their nourishers. Bee better aduised and call to mind, I beseech you, that I haue not pluckt a thorne out of your feet, but drawne your whole bodies out of perils, and when you had no meanes to helpe your selues, I onely was your support, and he, that when all other forsooke you, did comfort you in all your extremities. And what of all this, quoth one of them ? because you tooke vs vp poore, doth it therefore follow, that we must be your slaues ? We are young men, and for our part, we are no further to regard your profit, then it may stand with our preferment Why should we lose our benefit to pleasure you ? if you taught vs our trade, and brought vs vp from boies to men, you had our seruice for it, whereby you made no small benefit, if you had as well vsed it as we got it. But if you be poore, you may thanke your selfe, being a iust scourge for your prodigalitie, and is my opinion plaine, that to stay with you, is the next way to make vs like you, neither able to helpe our selues, nor our friends there-fore in briefe come pay me my wages, for I will not stay let the rest doe as they will, for I am resolued. Well said his Master, if needs thou wilt be gone, here is part of thy wages in hand, and the rest as soo
 TWO SISTER ARTS. IN silent gaze, the tuneful choir among, Half pleased, half blushing, let the Muse admire, While Bentley leads her sister-art along, And bids the pencil answer to the lyre, See, in their course, each transitory thought, Fixed by his touch, a lasting essence take Each dream, in Fancy's airy colouring wrought, To local symmetry and life awake ! The tardy rhymes, that used to linger on, To censure cold, and negligent of fame In swifter measures animated run, And catch a lustre from his genuine flame. Ah ! could they catch his strength, his easy grace, His quick creation, his unerring line The energy of Pope they might efface, And Dryden's harmony submit to mine. But not to one in this benighted age, Is that diviner inspiration given, That burns in Shakspeare's or in Milton's page, The pomp and prodigality of heaven.@† As, when conspiring in the diamond's blaze, The meaner gems that singly charm the sight Together dart their intermingled rays, And dazzle with a luxury of light. Enough for me, if to some feeling breast My lines a secret sympathy impart And, as their pleasing influence flows confess'd, A sigh of soft reflection heave the heart. -@Gray. These verses are an unfinished poem on the illustrations by Bentley for the edition of Gray's Poems in 1753 see page 320. The torn manuscript was found by Mason after the poet's death and published in his Memoirs of Gray, 1775. The words in italics were supplied by Mason. † 17-20 quoted by the Earl of Carlisle, Portora Speech-day, 186
 Country where they were borne, and neuer more should this clime couer my head, but with thee would I liue in a strange Land, being better content with an egge in thy company, then with all the delicates in England. The Maiden hearing this, who with many other words was long wooed, at last consented where yeelding to him her heart with her hand, hee departed, appointing to certifie her from Cardiffe Castle, what determination he would follow so taking his leaue of Gray he went to his brothers, and with them posted to Cardiffe. Now it is to be remembred, that sir William Ferrers within a day or two after came vnto Grayes house, as it was his ordinary custome, but not so much ywis for Grayes company, as for the minde he had to Margaret his Maide, who although he were a married man, and had a faire Lady to his wife, yet he laid hard siege to the fort of this Maidens chastity, hauing with many faire words sought to allure her, and by the offer of sundry rich gifts to tempt her. But whē she saw, that by a hundred denials she could not be rid of him, she now chanced on a sudden to giue him such an answer, as droue him from a deceit into such a conceit, as neuer after that time he troubled her. Sir William Ferrers being very importunate to haue her grant his desire, and when after sundry assaults she gaue him still the repulse, hee would needes know the reason why shee would not loue him, quoth he, If thou didst but consider who he is that seeketh thy fauou
KITTY JONES.@@@@@@ N @OT long ago a simple lad, from Yorkshire I did roam, And ever since I've sadly rued the day I left my home ! When in my native village-@oh, I alwavs were so gay. For on the Sundays I made love, and in the week made hay. But fortune, who's a fickle jade, at length did on me frown, A servant maid, whom I had loved, went up to Lunnun town @@So from that time upon my bed I could not rest my bones,@@ Till I set off for Lunnun Town in search of Kitty Jones. @@So on the Lunnun coach at last I went and took my seat, And pleasant folks of every sort to join me there did meet, A flashy chap who sat by me, soon saw I were a clown And very kindly said he'd put me ' fly' to Lunnun town. I told him of my love aftair, and ax'd for his advice, Says he, Young man, if that is all, I'll ease you in a trice, I knows the spot were Kitty dwells, and when we reach the stones I'll quickly take you to the place where you'll see Kitty Jones. I thanked the stranger very much for all that he had said, And soon from the coach we did alight at famous Saracen's Head Off wi' my partner then I walked, up alleys, streets, and squares,@ Until we reached a dirty house, and bolted up the stairs. A little 'ooman black as soot I in the room did see, She quickly flew into my arms and kissed and slobber'd me Her sausage lips she pressed to mine in spite of all my moans, ' You devil, who are you ? said I, says she, I'm Mrs. Jones. The man and 'ooman laughed at me till I were mad wi' grief, I found that blacky were a wretch, and  They robb'd me of my watch and purse, and kicked me to the street, And sighing at my luckless fate I made a quick retreat But turning round the corner I espied a buxom belle, A larking, chatting, grinning, wi' a dashing six-foot swell I felt a tremor seize my heart and penetrate my bones, I walked close up to the lass-@by gom ! 'twere Kitty Jones. I up to Kitty then did roam, expecting she would speak, I hemmed and hawed, and bowed and scraped, and touched her on the cheek ! Says I, Miss Kitty, you know me,@-@at least I do suppose, When she turned round, he turned and squared, and I turned up my nose ! Says he, Young man this lass is mine, so run you gaping clown, I sharply should ha' took him up@-@but lord ! he knocked me down@@ He right and left pitched into me, and swore he'd break my bones, He rolled me over in the mud, and so did Kitty Jones. In twelve months after this event I met her with a child, She seized me by the collar then, and foamed with anger wild A policeman was on the spot and ready at a nod, She swore I was her infant's pa, and took me off to quod They wanted me to tip the cash but I'd got none to tip, And so to prison they resolved that I should take a trip, To grind up corn they sent me there in spite o' all my moans, I served a year in Clerkenwell, and all through Kitty Jones. At length I got my liberty wi' nothing in my purse, Besides I'd lost my karacter which you will own was worse I to the workhouse then did go, to ' macadamize@' was sent, Wi' little grub and little blunt I now must be content But as for my fair paramour I never saw her more, Her vile deceit and cruelty I ever shall deplore, She's broke my heart, she's broke my head, I live by breaking stones, And oh ! that I had broke my neck ! ere I saw Kitty Jones.  -@H. Such, Printer Publisher, 177, Union  I have penn'd, All classes both low too, and high, Depend on yourself and don't trust to your friend, You don't know what you can do till you try. For in life's ups and downs there's smiles and there's frowns, And it oft causes many to sigh, But drive away care and you'll never despair, You don't know what you can do till you try.  do unto others as you would be done to,o, Push bravely on, never say ' die,' If in sorrow cast down, give a smile, not a frown, You don't know what you can do till you try. When by those you're deserted who should @@you assist, ' For when down they will soon fly away,' O do not despair, for they'll not long be missed, And you'll rise again some other day. Never mind what they say, go on steady your way, For the sun it will shine by-and-bye, And you'll see to their shame, they'll come back again, You don't know what you can do till you try. If you're cast down and sad, they'll say @you look bad, It's a pity to see you in grief, But pity, you know, in this world as it goes, Costs nothing, but they won't give relief So I say unto you, as this world you go thro', Meet misfortunes with a smile, not a sigh, And you soon will it pass, turn the corner at last, You don't know what you can do till you try. So to you now I say, don't meet troubles half-way, Be just, as this world you go through, Of your little take care, and never despair, For there's many that's worse off than you. This life's but a span, do the best that you can, Be honest, don't give way or sigh, Don't be slow nor too fast, and you'll conquer at last, You don't know what you can do till you tr
 in British Guiana twenty-five cents per diem is considered ex-cessive wages, rarely demanded even by the most intelligent and able-bodied workmen. But I have a natural reluctance to deal with such common-place every-day matters it troubles me to turn over the pages of blue-books and census-reports they are uninteresting reading to me -@moreover, I fear to weary my readers with arrays of facts and fig-ures, deductions and conclusions. I have to admit frankly that I paid little attention to all these things when cruising down the islands I had gone a-pleasuring, was seeking amusement, and therefore took little thought of political economy or questions relating to the pros-perity and welfare of mankind at large, being content to see the best side of things, wishing in my heart that everybody had reason, and was willing, to thank their good fortune that things were no worse than I saw them. The reasons that induced the Dutchmen who colonized this part of the world as early as the year 1580 to take possession of the region they named Surinam are not far to seek. Except for a marked con-trast in vegetation and a wide difference of climate, the Netherlands in all other respects resembles Surinam as closely as a country crowded with thrifty Dutchmen can be said to resemble a land inhabited by spadeless, ploughless, trouserless savages, contented to dwell in prime-val forests lazy barbarians, who had never seen a windmill or a flagon of schnapps until the representatives of their High Mightinesses set their muddled brains a-@whirling at the sight of the one, and stole away their wits and fertile territory by teaching them the taste of the other. The coast of Surinam is marshy and sea-@worn@-@the currents of its rivers are as sluggish and mud-stained as the waters of the Amstel or the Maas. The waves of the Atlantic, for miles out from the low, level shore, are as thick and oozy as the sickly broth of the German Ocean along tide-water mark or the margin of the Zuyder Zee. What wonder, then, that as naturally as a Kanaka baby takes to salt-water, the Dutch established themselves in this equatorial Holland, where they fell to work digging ditches, raising dikes, intrenchi
 thyself to marble, till, With a sad leaden downward cast, Thou fix them on the earth as fast. And join with thee calm Peace and Quiet, Spare Fast, that oft with gods doth diet, And hears the Muses in a ring Aye round about Jove's altar sing And add to these retirèd Leisure, That in trim gardens takes his pleasure But, first and chiefest, with thee bring Him that yon soars on golden wing, Guiding the fiery-wheelèd throne. The Cherub Contemplation And the mute Silence hist along, 'Less Philomel will deign a song, In her sweetest saddest plight, Smoothing the rugged brow of Night, While Cynthia checks her dragon yoke Gently o'er the accustomed oak. Sweet bird, that shunn'st the noise of folly, Most musical, most melancholy ! Thee, chauntress, oft the woods among I woo, to hear thy evensong And missing thee, I walk unseen On the dry smooth-shaven green, To behold the wandering moon, Riding near her highest noon, Like one that had been led astray Through the heaven's wide pathless way, And oft, as if her head she bowed, Stooping through a fleecy cloud. Oft on a plat of rising ground, I hear the far-off curfew sound Over some wide-watered shor
 God sends it, thou shalt haue it and with that, turning to the rest, he said, Let me yet intreat you to stay, and leaue me not altogether destitute of helpe by your labours must I liue, and without you I know not what to doe. Consider therefore my need, and regard my great charge. And if for my sake you will doe nothing, take compassion of my poore children stay my sliding foot, and let me not vtterly fall, through your flying from me. Tush quoth they what do you talke to vs ? We can haue better wages, and serue a man of credit, where our fare shall be farre better, and our gaines greater there-fore the world might count vs right coxcomes, if we should forsake our profit, to pleasure you therefore adieu, God send you more money, for you are like to haue no more men and thus they departed. When they were gone, within a while after they met one with another, saying, What cheare ? are you all come away in faith I, what should we doe else, quoth they but hear'st thou sirra, hast thou got thy wages ? Not yet saith the other, but I shall haue it, and that is as good, tis but x shillings. Saist thou so said he now I see thou art one of God Almighties idiots Why so, said the other ? Because quoth he thou wilt be fed with shales but Ile tell thee one thing, twere better for thee quickly to arrest him, lest some other doing it before, and there be nothing left to pay thy debt hold thy peace, faire words make fooles faine, and it is an o
 This process of civilizing the Caribs went ruthlessly on@-@Carib against Spaniard, Frenchman, Dutchman, Englishman, Carib against the whole world, until there remains of the ancient possessors of these islands but a handful on Dominica and a wretched band of half-breeds half Carib, @half runaway-slave on the island of St. Vincent nor will it be many years until the last Carib shall be gathered to his fore-fathers, leaving nothing but a tradition@-@the imperfectly remembered story of a once mighty people. On Sunday, November 3, 1493, Columbus, on his second voyage, discovered Dominica, and naming it in honor of the day@, sailed to the east of north, laying his course for a smaller island, upon which he landed, calling it Marigalante, after the name of his own ship. Taking possession of all the islands in sight in the name of Ferdi-nand and Isabella, naming the largest of them Guadalupe having promised the monks of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Estremadura to call some newly discovered place after their convent , Columbus con-tinued on his voyage, passed Antigua, St. Kitt's, and the islands to the north and west of Dominica, and so came to Hayti, his desired haven. In after years so troublesome did the Caribs become, opposing all attempts to settle or even explore Dominica, that the historian Da-vies, failing to possess himself of accurate information concerning it, romances about the island in a manner worthy of credulous Sir John Mandeville himself. Writing of Dominica in 1666, he states that in his day it was a howling wilderness, inhabited by hordes of hostile savages who dwell among horrid and unnatural scenery, infested by an infinite number of reptiles of a dreadful bulk and length, men-tioning in particular one monstrous serpent that wore on its head a very sparkling stone, like a carbuncle, of inestimable price. . . . It commonly veiled that jewel with a thin moving skin, like a man's eye-lid, but when it went to drink or sported itself this reptile fully dis-covered it, so that the rocks and all about it received a wonderful lustre from the fires issuing out of that precious crown. The Caribs kept away from the coast, hiding themselves in the forests and fortifying
 vnknowne to her master or dame, in a morning betime made her ready and got forth, walking to the appointed place, where her Loue should meet her. During her aboade there, and thinking long ere her Loue came, she entred into diuers passions, which in-deed presaged some disaster fortune to follow. O my deare Loue, said shee, how slacke art thou in perform-ing thy promise ! why doe not thy deeds agree with thy indicting ? see these are thy words, Come, my deare Margaret, and with Cupids swift wings flie to thy friend, be now as nimble in thy footing, as the Camels of Bac-tria, that runne an hundred miles a day, I will waite and stay for thee, so I stay not too long. There is no Country like Austria for ambling horses, and to carry thee I haue got one. O my Loue quoth she here am I, but where art thou ? O why doest thou play the trewant with time, who like the wind slides away vnseene ? An ambling gennet of Spaine is too slow to serue our turnes. A flying horse, for flying Louers were most meete. And thus casting many lookes thorow the Siluane shades, vp and downe to espie him, she thought euery minute an houre, till she might see him, sometimes she would wish her self a bird, that she might flie through the ayre to meet him, or a pretty squirill to clime the highest tree to descry his coming but finding her wishes vaine, she began thus to excuse him and perswaded her selfe, saying How much to blame am I, to finde fault with 
 us both, hadst thou but called us when it did speake, all England had been walled round about with brasse, to its glory, and our eternal fames what were the wordes it spake very few said Miles and those were none of the wisest that I have heard neither first he said, TIME IS. Hadst thou call'd us then said Fryer Bacon we had been made for ever then said Miles half an hour after it spake againe and said, TIME WAS. And wouldst thou not call us then said Bungey ? Alas said Miles I thought he would have told me some long tale, and then I purposed to have called you then half an houre after he cried,  and made such a noyse, that hee hath waked you himselfe mee thinkes. At this Fryer Bacon was in such a rage that hee would have beaten his man, but he was restrained by Bungey but neverthelesse for his punishment, he with his art struck him dumbe for one whole months space. Thus the greate worke of theselearned Fryers was over-thrown to their great griefes by this simple fellow. How Fryer Bacon by his art took a towne, when the King had lyen before it three months, without doing to it any hurt. IN those times when Fryer Bacon did all his strange trickes, the Kings of England had a great part of France, which they held a long time, till civill warres at home in this land made them to lose it it did chance that the King of England for some cause best knowne to him-selfe went into France with a great armie, where aft
 Down by a chrystal fountain, As I alone one morn did stray, The Shamrock, Thistle and the Rose, Unto each other did say, Alterations must take place, For Britons seem in grief and woe, Such times were never seen before, In the land called bonny England Oh ! In former days our fathers say, The times were@@ diffirent far, from no@w The taxes were not half so high, The poor man kept his pig and cow, His family were neat and clean, And cheerfully along did go, Distress by few was seldom felt, In the land of bonny England Oh ! When Queen Elizabeth ruled the land, She passed a law to feed the poor, And people no occasion had, To beg their bread from door to door, Employment every one cold find, And cheerfully to his labour go, But now they've passed a Poor Law Bill, To starve the poor of England Oh ! That time they no policemen had, By day and night the streets to roam, The station houses were not built, And men in liquor then went home But now the laws are altered much, If peaceable you do not go, A broken head you may expect, So much for bonny England Oh ! The farmer's wives to market rode, Upon a horse and pannel neat, She wore a linsey wolsey gown, Her clothing wholesome clean and neat. Silk gowns with parasols and veils, Scented with musk are now the go, A fine blood horse to ride@-@Oh What a chance in bonny England Oh ! Come Britons cheer your spirits up, And let us hope the times will mend We are well aware 'tis almost time, Oppression should be at an end. When men were for their labour paid, And rates and taxes were bo@th low, That was the time to live and see The land of bonny England Oh !  t@he Low Land of Scotland, fair Phoebe did dwell, Beloved by her parents was this beautiful girl, She was so admired all round the country, That they call'd her the beauty of the town of Dundee. There was a young doctor who gained Phoebe's Love, But Phoebe's kind parents of him did not approve. It's forsake your kind parents, and come along with me, Said @William, to the beauty of the town of Dundee. Oh @no, replied Phoebe, such things I'll never do, I will ne'er forsake my parents to go along with you. Young William turned from her, and a plan contrived he, To overthrow t@he beauty of the town of Dundee. He ranged the wood over, till some gipsies he found, And he told them his plans, as they sat upon the ground, Saying, bright gold and silver shall now be your fee, To decoy the lovely Phoebe from the town of Dundee.@@ That evening as Phoebe in the green grove did stay, The gipsies did surround her and bore her away, Then the false hearted villain did pretend to set her free, So he hurried lovely Phoebe from the town of Dundee. Now a twelvemonth passed over, and Phoebe so fair, She brought forth a baby---such a sweet little dear In the midst of her troubles cruel William did flee, And forsook lovely Phoebe of the town of Dundee. Poor Phoebe soon after was turned out to roam, With her baby at her bosom, she sighed for happy home, The sloes and wil@d berries her only food to be Ah, sad the fate of Phoebe of the town of Dundee. Then weak and exhausted, fatigued and worn low, She fell with her baby, and ex@pired in the snow, Then death stopped the sorrow of her baby and she Once called the lovely beauty of the town of Dundee. Then Phoebe and her baby in the dust were laid low, And a green weeping willow over them does grow. So all you true lovers, wherever you may be, Think of the once lovely Phoebe of the town of 
HAVE YOU SEEN MY MISSUS. Y OU'VE heard my children two, Seeking for each other, My daughter left home first, Soon followed by her brother But there never was so sad And wicked a world as this is, My family all are mad, For now I've lost my Missus. Toora loo ra la, toora loo ra loddy, c. I've studied well my home, From the first time I did woo her, But never thought she'd roam, Such a husband I'd been to her She's taken all the plate, But far much worse than this is I fear she's got a mate, Now have you seen my Missus ? Since I saw her last, None know what I suffer, Every one I ask, Calls me poor old Buffer @@@@@@If I could see her now,@@@@@@ I'd smother her with kisses, I'm a wretched man I vow, Now have you seen my Missus ? She's took my watch and purse. A case with ring and pin in, And then to make it worse, Pawned every bit of linen I could forgive her that, To enjoy the married blisses, But I am losing all my fat, Since I have lost my Missus. That wretched home of mine, I cannot bear to enter, For there's her portrait fine, Hanging in the centre I oft gaze at the head, And fancy nought amiss is, Till I tumble into bed, It's then I miss my Missus. Wretched then I lay, Till the morn is beaming, And when I fall asleep, Strange things am I dreaming I awoke quite full of qualms, A hard case you'll say this is, With the bolster in my arms, Instead of having Missus. Her bonnet is a poke, With a light blue feather in it, She wears a Polka cloak, And sings like any linnet Should you a woman meet, With such a dress as this is, A bottle I'll stand treat, If you'll bring back my Missus. PADDY'S WAKE.  OUD howled each Irish mourner That went to Paddy's wake, The house in every corner, They made to twist and shake To view Pat in his shroud The neighbours now did crowd, With squalls and cries, They rent the skies, Why did you die ? oh ! oh ! The house began to shiver, The stacks of chimnies bent, The rain just like a river, Through every tile-hole went While they sat on the floor, With Paddy placed before, Then each one said, To wake the dead, Why did you die ? oh ! oh ! The time soon came for starting, To put Pat in his grave, Then each one put their part in, And sung a doleful stave, Then screwed Pat in his shell, With tobacco and pipes as well Then each did moan, He's dead and gone, Why did you die ? oh ! oh ! With Paddy on their shoulders, Off to the grave they flew, And all the near beholders Kicked up a hubbaboo They down'd him with a whack, Which made the coffin crack, Then each did cry, Good-bye, good-bye, Why did you die ? oh ! oh ! 41
 comes vp their Oast, who tooke his place among them and anon after, the good wife in a red peticote and a waistcoate, comes among them as white as a Lilly, saying, My Masters, you are welcome, I pray you be merry. Thus falling close to their meate, when they had well fed, they found leysure to talke one with another at what time Cutb. began thus to finde fault, Ywis, my Oast, quoth he, you haue a wise huswife to your wife, heere is meate drest of a new fashion ? God sends meate, and the deuil sends cooks. Why what ailes the meate, quoth she, serues it not your turnes ? better men then your selfe are content withall, but a paultry companion is euer worst to please. Away, you sluttish thing, qd. Cutbert, your husband hath a sweet Jewell of you I maruell such a graue ancient man would match himselfe with such a young giglot that hath as much handsomenes in her, as good huswifry, whicn is iust nothing at all. Well sir, said shee, in regard of my husbands presence, I am loth to aggrauate anger, otherwise I would tell thee thy owne. Goe to, what needs all this, quoth the company ? in good faith, Cutbert, you are to blame, you find fault where none is. Tush, I must speake my mind, quoth Cutbert, I cannot dissemble, I trust the good man thinkes neuer the worse of me so I haue his good will, what the foule euill care I for his wifes. Enough, quoth Tom Doue, let vs with Musicke remoue these brabbles, we meane to be merry, and not @melancholy. Then said old Cole, Now trust me, Cutbert, we will have your Oastesse and y
 in loud and solemn quire, With unexpressive notes, to Heaven's new-born Heir. Such music as 'tis said Before was never made, But when of old the Sons of Morning sung, While the Creator great His constellations set, And the well-balanced world on hinges hung, And cast the dark foundation deep, And bid the weltering waves their oozy channel keep. Ring out, ye crystal Spheres ! Once bless our human ears If ye have power to touch our senses so , And let your silver chime Move in melodious time And let the base of Heaven's deep organ blow, And with your ninefold harmony Make up full consort to the angelic symphony. For if such holy song Enwrap our fancy long, Time will run back, and fetch the age of gold And speckled Vanity Will sicken soon and die And leprous Sin will melt from earthly mould And Hell itself will pass away, And leave her dolorous mansions to the peering day. Yea, Truth and Justice then Will down return to men, Orbed in a rainbow and, like glories wearing, Mercy will sit between, Throned in celestial sheen, With radiant feet the tissued clouds down steerin
 to enherite his landes after his dysceyse. To the whyche request this good duke answered and sayd My lordes, what thynge that ye thynke best for me to do shall be done, upon a condycyon, in that ye wyll that I be maryed, that ye puruey me a wyfe accordynge to myn estate, for and yf I shol coueyte ony heyre or noblyer of blode than I am myselfe that myghte not stand with ryght, and yf I take one that is not of so no-ble an house as I am, that sholde be to me grete shame, and all my lygnage wherefore me thynke it were better that I kepe me as I am, than to do that thynge that sholde not be myne honeste, and afterwarde repente me. Whan these wordes were spoken, and well con-sydered by the lordes that stode there present, then there rose up a wyse baron, and sayd to the duke My lorde ye speke very wysely, and lyke a noble prynce, but yf it please your hyeness to gyue audyence and here me speke, I shall shewe you of a certayne persone of whome ye shall enjoye yourselfe to here of her, and the whyche ye shall obteyne I knowe well. Than answered the duke, and sayd shewe me then who that persone is. Gracyous lorde, sayd the baron unto the duke, the duke of Bourgone hath a doughter whyche excedethe al other in beaute, curteyse and deboynayre wysdome and good maneres, the whiche ye may have yf ye wyll desyre her, for I knowe well there wyll no man say naye thereto. To the whiche the good duke answered and said, that lady playsed hym ryght well, and that the baron had gyven hym good and wyse counsell. And 
 behind earthworks to renew the never-ending battle of their race@-@the struggle against the invasion of the sea, disputing the question of riparian rights with the Atlantic Ocean itself. The Dutch colonists drove ploughs where Caribs had formerly paddled canoes, and in the fulness of time raised crops of sugar-cane on acres once overgrown with sedge and sea-weed. Doubtless, when Ten-This and Van T'other could walk along the level tops of the@n-dikes for miles and miles, or travel by canal from house to house, be-holding a score or more windmills in every direction, the trans-planted Hollanders felt as much at home in Surinam, all the year round, as he did in the Low Countries any piping-hot day in mid-summer. And so the Rip Van So-and-sos and Woutter Van What's-his-names smoked their pipes, quaffed their schnapps, until the Eng-lish and French entered into a conspiracy@ and took, each of them, one-third of the Dutchman's colony, establishing themselves unin-vited in his vicinity, becoming his self-elected neighbors the former planting sugar to the northwest of Surinam, in British Guiana, the latter founding a penal colony to the southeast, in Cayenne. The English changed the name of the largest city in their possession from Stabroek to Georgetown as they aforetime had changed the name of my@ native city from New Amsterdam to New York , but were content with Anglicizing the spelling of the name of the second town of importance, writing it down New Amsterdam, the name it bears to-day. When we arrived at Georgetown I lost no time in going ashore, the Doctor accompanying me. We both carried valises packed with in-definite raiment, describable as enough for two nights. For the first time since leaving New York we were to sleep in beds instead of on ship's deck, under mosquito-nets instead of beneath a canvas awning. The steamer, which we left in mid-stream, was presently to be made fast to a wharf, and the Doctor, sniffing suspicion of malaria in the air tainted by the filth floating by the docks, decreed that all those who would take his advice should take lodging at some convenient hostelry in t
 TO THE MEMORY OF BEN JONSON. THE Muses' fairest light in no dark time, The wonder of a learnèd age the line Which none can pass the most proportioned wit To nature, the best judge of what was fit The deepest, plainest, highest, clearest pen The voice most echoed by consenting men The soul which answered best to all well said By others, and which most requital made Tuned to the highest key of ancient Rome, Returning all her music with his own In whom with nature study claimed a part, And yet who to himself owed all his art -Here lies Ben Jonson ! every age will look With sorrow here, with wonder on his book. -@Cleveland. CXXXIII. ON BEN JONSON. FATHER of poets, though thine own great day, Struck from thyself, scorns that a weaker ray Should twine in lustre with it, yet my flame, Kindled from thine, flies upward towards thy name. Where shall we find a Muse like thine, that can So well present, and show man unto man. That each one finds his twin, and thinks thy art Extends not to the gestures, but the heart ? Where one so showing life to life, that we Think thou taught'st custom, and not custom thee. But thou still put'st true passions on dost write With the same courage that tried captains fight Giv'st the right blush and colour unto thing
 what is reported of Gerbert should not seem wonderful to any person, which is, that he cast, for his own purposes, the head of a statue, by a certain inspection of the stars when the planets were about to begin their courses, which spake not unless spoken to, but then pronounced the truth, either in the affir-mative or negative. For instance when Gerbert would say, '@Shall I be pope ?' the statue would re-ply '@Yes ?' '@Am I to die ere I sing mass at Jeru-salem ?' 'No.' They relate that he was so much deceived by this ambiguity that he thought nothing of repen-tance, for when would he think of going to Jerusalem to accelerate his own death. The Chronicler then tells that there is a Church at Borne called Jerusalem where the Pope sings mass on Three Sundays which are called The Station at Jerusalem, and then proceeds, wherefore upon one of these days Gerbert preparing himself for mass was suddenly struck with sickness, which increased so that he took to his bed and con-sulting his statue he became convinced of his delusion and of his approaching death. Tepes also affirms that Henry de Villeine made such a one at Madrid, which was afterwards broken to pieces by order of John the Second, King of Castile and upon numerous authorities, the same thing has be
 THE REBEL HOST. ALL these and more came flocking, but with looks Downcast and damp, yet such wherein appeared Obscure some glimpse of joy, to have found their Chief Not in despair, to have found themselves not lost In loss itself which on his countenance cast Like doubtful hue but he, his wonted pride Soon recollecting, with high words, that bore Semblance of worth, not substance, gently raised Their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears. Then straight commands that, at the warlike sound Of trumpets loud, and clarions, be upreared His mighty standard that proud honour claimed Azazel as his right, a Cherub tall Who forthwith from the glittering staff unfurled The imperial ensign which, full high advanced, Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind, With gems and golden lustre rich emblazed, Seraphic arms and trophies all the while Sonorous metal blowing martial sounds At which the universal host up-sent A shout that tore Hell's concave, and beyond Frighted the reign of Chaos and old Night. All in a moment through the gloom were seen Ten thousand banners rise into the air, With orient colours waving with them rose A forest huge of spears and thronging helms Appeared, and serried shields in thick array Of depth immeasurable. Anon they move In perfect phalanx to the Dorian mood Of flutes and soft recorders such as rais
 his clothes were all dyed rede with the blode of the people that he had murdred and slayne, and thus arayed he rode ouer the feldes, and clothes, handes, face, all were rede of the blode of the holy heremytes, whiche he had so pyteously murdred in the wyldernesse. How Robert the Deuyll rode to his moder the duchesse of Normandye, beynge in the castell of Darques she was come to a feste. ROBERT rode so ferre and so longe, that he came to the castell of Darques but he mette before with a shyp-herde which had tolde hym that his moder the duchesse sholde come of the sayd castell to dyner, and so he rode theder. But whan Robert came there, and the people se hym come, they ranne awaye frome hym, lyke the hare frome the houndes one ranne and shette hym in hys house, an other ranne into the chyrche for fere. Robert seynge this, that all the people fled from hym for fere, he began to sygh in his herte, and sayd to hymself,@-@O ! Almyghty God, how may this be, that every man thus fleeth from me ! Nowe I perceyue that I am the moost myscheuouste and the moost cursedest wretche of this worlde, for I sente better to be a Jewe or a Sarasyne, than any Crysten man, and I se wel that I am worste of all yll. Alas ! sayd Robert the Deuyll, I may well hate and curse myne ungracyous and cursed lyfe, wherfore I am worthy to be hated of God and the worlde. In this minde and heuynesse came Robert to the castell gate, and lyghte downe from his horse, b
 busines, and to liue in Gods feare, and you shall haue no care to regard fortunes frownes, and so they went home together. Now, so soone as the good-man saw her, hee asked his wife where she had that maiden ? She said, at the Faire. Why then quoth he, thou hast brought all the faire away, and I doubt it were better for vs, to send the faire to another Towne, then to keepe the faire here. Why man, quoth she, what meane you by that ? Woman, I meane this, that she will proue a Loadstone, to draw the hearts of all my men after her, and so we shall haue wise service done of all sides. Then said his wife, I hope, husband, Margaret will have a better care both to her owne credit, and our commodity then so, and so let her alone to looke to such matters. Is thy name Mar-garet, quoth her Master ? proper is thy name to thy person, for thou art a pearle indeed, orient, and rich in beauty. His wife hearing him say so, began to change her opinion What husband quoth she is the wind at that doore ? Begin you to like your maid so well ? I doubt I had most need to looke to your selfe before God, I had rather then an angell I had chosen some other but heare you maid, you shall packe hence, I will not nourish a Snake in my bosome, and therefore get you gone, I will none of you, prouide a seruice where you may. The maiden hearing her say so, fell do@wne on her knees, and besought her, saying, O sweet dame, be n
 PITT AND FOX. NOR mourn ye less his perished worth, Who bade the conqueror go forth, And launched that thunderbolt of war On Egypt, Hafnia, Trafalgar Who, born to guide such high emprize, For Britain's weal, was early wise Alas ! to whom the Almighty gave, For Britain's sins, an early grave His worth, who, in his mightiest hour, A bauble held the pride of power, Spurned at the sordid lust of pelf, And served his Albion for herself Who, when the frantic crowd amain Strained at subjection's bursting rein, O'er their wild mood full conquest gained, The pride, he would not crush, restrained. Showed their fierce zeal a worthier cause, And brought the freeman's arm, to aid the freeman's laws. Hadst thou but lived, though stripped of power, A watchman on the lonely tower, Thy thrilling trump had roused the land, When fraud or danger were at hand By thee, as by the beacon-light, Our pilots had kept course aright As some proud column, though alone, Thy strength had propped the tottering throne Now is the stately column broke, The beacon-light is quenched in smoke, The trumpet's silver sound is still, The warder silent on the hill ! Oh think, how to his latest da
 sweetly to each other smile The livelong day@-@sun, cloud, and isle. How silent lies each sheltered bay ! No other visitors have they To their shores of silvery sand, Than the waves that murmuring in their glee, All hurrying in a joyful band, Come dancing from the sea. -@Wilson. CCCXV. LOVE'S IMMORTALITY. THEY sin who tell us Love can die ! With life all other passions fly All others are but vanity. In heaven ambition cannot dwell, Nor avarice in the vaults of hell Earthly, these passions are of earth, They perish where they have their birth. But Love is indestructible Its holy flame for ever burneth, From heaven it came, to heaven returneth Too oft on earth a troubled guest, At times deceived, at times oppressed, It here is tried and purified, And hath in heaven its perfect rest. It soweth here with toil and care, But the harvest-time of Love is there. Oh ! when a mother meets on high The babe she lost in infancy, Hath she not then, for pains and fears, The day of woe, the anxious night, For all her sorrows, all her tears, An over-payment of delight ? 1810. -@Southey, The Curse of Keha
 -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer Publisher, 177, Union-street, Borough, ISLE. @@@C OME all you pretty maidens one moment draw near, And a tale of true love you quickly shall hear In the land of sweet Erin a damsel did smile, They called her pretty Kate of the Emerald Isle. She was gay, young and handsome, attractive and keen, A blooming young damsel about seventeen She was courted by a ploughboy who on her did smile, Was bonny young Kate of the Emerald Isle. He was envied by squires and lords of renown, On the hills with her lover she often sat down, While the birds on the bushes did chatte@r awhile, Dennis loved bonny Kate of the Emerald Isle. As they tript o'er the meadows one morning so soon, When the pink and the violet were all in full bloom, There a blooming young rose on the lovers did@ smile, A young squire met Kate of the Emerald Isle. He said, blooming damsel, can I make so bold, To desire your hand-@I've ten thousand in gold, I'll deck you with jewels while fortune shall smile, Oh no, replied Kate of the Emerald Isle. From my true love Dennis I never will part, He has gained my affections and lives in my heart, Neither diamonds or jewels shall e'er me beguile, While my name's bonny Kate of the Emerald Isle. Then to church they repaired and the bells they did And the birds in the bushes did merrily sing ring, In a neat little cottage young Dennis did smile On his bonny young Kate of the Emerald  river that springs in the West, With daisy-clad banks and mountains@ so green, And purling fine streams no man can contest, @@@@Where the salmon and trout in plenty are seen. The sun from the east the hills doth adorn, The lambs sweetly sporting on each pleasant morn, And the huntsman he starts with the hounds and the horn, To chase the bold fox on the banks of the Lee. On a pleasant May morn it's there you would see, The lads and the lasses most cheerful and gay, Enjoying each other in mirth and sweet glee, And the birds in sweet concert to welcome in May. See the beautifu@l Mardyke where thousands go w@alking, Round Sunday's well so delightful and charming, Where health is restored on a fine summer's morning, By the wholesome fine air on the banks of the Lee. On the banks of the Lee the angler finds pleasure, Casting his fly by his judgment and skill, Each purling fine stream he can fish at his leisure, The salmon and trout he is sure for to kill. The lark and sweet linnet to the sportsman give pleasure, The blackbird and thrush in full concert together, The woodcock, the partridge, the grouse, and the plover, The fowler can net on the banks of the Lee. See the beautiful prospect from Cove to the city, No nation in Europe such a landscape can show, Surrounded by groves and improvements so pretty, Glanmire, Blackrock, and the Brickfields also. The ships full of merchandize coming and going, The natives with music so pleasantly boasting, And the sweet@ bells of Shandon so pleasantly tolling, To crown their delight on the banks of the Lee. I cross'd o'e the Nore, the Suir, and the Liffey, The Slaney, Blackwater, and sweet river Bann, And never found any so pleasing or pretty, Tho' poets are boasting of them every one And to tell you the truth there's nothing could please me, No pl@@e, no pastime, no amusement could ease me, Till I came to the spot where nature had reared me, Once more for to sport on the banks of the Le
 the Kings Maiestie sent for the Clothiers, and of the sundry fauours which he did them. Chap. 4. KING Henry prouiding for his voyage into France, against King Lewis and Robert Duke of Normandie his owne brother,committed the Gouernment of the Realme in his absence, to the Bishop of Salisbury, a man of great wisedome and learning, whom the king esteemed highly, and afterward he thought good to send for the chiefe Clothiers of England, who according to the kings appointment came to the Court, and ha@uing licence to come before his Maiestie, he spake to this effect. The strength of a King is the loue and friendship of his people, and he gouernes ouer his Realme most surely, that ruleth iustice with mercy for he ought to feare many, whom many doe feare therefore the Gouernors of the Common-wealth ought to obserue two speciall precepts the one is, that they so maintaine the profit of the Commons, that whatsoeuer in their calling they doe, they referre it thereunto the other, that they be alwayes as well carefull ouer the whole Common-wealth, as ouer any part thereof lest, while they vphold the one, the other be brought to vtter decay. And forasmuch as I doe vnderstand, and haue partly seene, that you the Clothiers of England are no small benefit to the wealth publike, I thought it good to know from your owne mouthes, if there be any thing not yet granted that may benefit you, or any other thing to be remoued that doth hurt yo
 L'ALLEGRO. HENCE loathèd Melancholy, Of Cerberus and blackest Midnight born, In Stygian cave forlorn, 'Mongst horrid shapes, and shrieks, and sights unholy ! Find out some uncouth cell, Where brooding Darkness spreads his jealous wings, And the night-raven sings There, under ebon shades and low-browed rocks, As ragged as thy locks, In dark Cimmerian desert ever dwell. But come, thou Goddess fair and free, In heaven yclept Euphrosyné, And by men, heart-easing Mirth Whom lovely Venus, at a birth, With two sister Graces more, To ivy-crownèd Bacchus bore Or whether as some sager sing The frolic wind that breathes the spring, Zephyr, with Aurora playing, As he met her once a-Maying There, on beds of violets blue, And fresh-blown roses washed in dew, Filled her with thee, a daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee Jest and youthful Jollity, Quips, and Cranks, and wanton Wiles, Nods and Becks, and wreathèd Smiles, Such as hang on Hebe's cheek, And love to live in dimple sleek Sport that wrinkled Care derides, And Laughter holding both his side
 those can conquer, these can cheat 'Tis phrase absurd to call a villain great Who wickedly is wise, or madly brave, Is but the more a fool, the more a knave. Who noble ends by noble means obtains, Or failing, smiles in exile or in chains, Like good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed Like Socrates, that man is great indeed. What's fame, a fancied life in other's breath, A thing beyond us, ev'n before our death. Just what you hear, you have, and what's unknown The same my lord if Tully's, or your own. All that we feel of it begins and ends In the small circle of our foes or friends To all beside as much an empty shade, An Eugene living, as a Caesar dead Alike or when, or where, they shone, or shine, Or on the Rubicon, or on the Rhine. A wit's a feather, and a chief a rod An honest man's the noblest work of God. Fame but from death a villain's name can save, As justice tears his body from the grave When what t' oblivion better were resigned, Is hung on high, to poison half mankind. All fame is foreign, but of true desert Plays round the head, but comes not to the heart One self-approving hour whole years outweighs Of stupid starers, and of loud huzzas And more true joy Marcellus exiled feels, Than Caesar with a senate at his heels. . . . Know then this truth enough for man to know , ' Virtue alone is happiness below '. The only point where human bliss stands still, And tastes the good without the fall to ill 
 or rough, with them, is right or wrong In the bright Muse though thousand charms conspire, Her voice is all these tuneful fools admire, Who haunt Parnassus but to please their ear, Not mend their minds as some to church repair Not for the doctrine but the music there. These equal syllables alone require, Though oft the ear the open vowels tire While expletives their feeble aid do join And ten low words oft creep in one dull line While they ring round the same unvaried chimes, With sure returns of still expected rhymes Where'er you find ' the cooling western breeze,' In the next line, it ' whispers through the trees@' If crystal streams 'with pleasing murmurs creep,' The reader's threatened not in vain with 'sleep' Then, at the last and only couplet fraught With some unmeaning thing they call a thought, A needless Alexandrine ends the song, That like a wounded snake drags its slow length along. Leave such to tune their own dull rhymes, and know What's roundly smooth, or languishingly slow And praise the easy vigour of a line, Where Denham's strength and Waller's sweetness join. True ease in writing comes from art not chance. As those move easiest who have learned to dance, 'Tis not enough no harshness gives offence, The sound must seem an echo to the sense Soft is the strain when Zephyr gently blows, And the smooth stream in smoother numbers flows But when loud surges lash the sounding shore, The hoarse rough verse should like the torrent roa
THE WRONGS OF ERIN. You learned men of fame excuse a feeble frame, For the want of education I am stupid, These ew verses I've penn'd down in Graunua's true renown, And Lord Mulgrave the pride of our nation. And likewise noble Dan, who subdued the tory clan, May peace shine through our Irish nation, To have no creed but one which Christ himself begun, Fifteen hundred years@ before the Reformation. You have heard talk of Colin Kiln, when his prophecy begun, As he traced it to the last generation, I'm sure you'll find it true, for the tax that's laid anew Has sorely oppressed our Irish nation. Since the poor laws did take place, you did shortly want no lease, You disown both your cattle and your country, From your farms you run away, as your rent you can-not pay, Since the union have ruined our nation. There's the bond of charity our Saviour did agree, They have all preparations to break it, To part both man and wife, you might as well take their life, Or the child from its mother's bosom It will grieve her heart full sore, she will never see it  a solitary place they may mourn, And there to weep and cry until the day she die, To her home it never will return. God bless St. Peter's rock, where Christ has fed his flock, They have treated it with the greatest of slander, They swore our church was not pure, and opened ano-ther door, And our parliament they brought it to London. The tories stay at home to oppress the church of Rome And to keep us poor Catholics under, They must all return home to England very soon, For Ireland won't keep them any longer. After new year's day this heavy tax you pay, To keep the poor-house in good order, I'm sure you find it strange to provide the change, When the landlord he ca@me on Monday morning Be quick, look to your ground as the rent cannot be found, Go and call vour noblemen from London, Or you must work like slaves till you go to your graves Unless from t@he union you return. Now I'll end my song as my verses are not long, I hope I have told you of no treason, That the orange may fall, so with the tories all, That have sorely oppressed our Irish nation. The Pope long may he reign, and the Cardinals the same, Dan O'Connell was the pride of our nation,ation, Our chapel is in full bloom until the day of doom, To vex t@hose rotten members while they're weeping.  OF  name is Mick Maloney, I drive an Irish car,ar, From Dublin all around, sirs, I drive both near and far My car is decorated out, and on the door a star, And the pride of all the county is young Mick of Castlebar. He can trot along, gallop along, and drive an Irish car, And the girls all fall in love with Mick of Castlebar. I was born in Dublin city, I was reared in Paddy's land, My sisters they are Irish too, and upright they do stand, My father from Kilkenny came, my mother from Armagh I hope you'll not forget, my boys, young Mick of Castlebar. Now if you want a car, sirs, just come and hire me, I'll drive you out in style, sirs, the country for to see My horse will trot along the road, just like a shooting star, Step up, my boys@, be drove along, by Mick of Castlebar. When the Queen came o'er to Ireland, her health for to revive She sent a note to ax me, would I take her for a drive, I drove her up and down, sirs, around the country far She said she never would forget young Mick of Castlebar. Now ladies will you take a car, I'm just the lad, you see, I'll drive you round about, if you come along with me I'm sure you'll not forget, my girls, my name sounds near and far. Make up your minds, be drove along, by Mick of Castlebar. Should Garib@aldi want a car, I'm sure he won't forget, To send for Mick Malony, who never harm did yet, And coming from the wars, sirs, with whiskey in the jar, They'll be welcom'd back to Ireland, by Mick of Castlebar. Now gentlefolks take my advice, when out upon the spree, If you want a small divarsio@n, just come and hire me I'll drive you all around my boys, to view ould Ireland far, Just say the word and out we'll drive, away to Castlebar. THE BOYS of  BRIGADE What for should I sing you of Roman or Greek, Or the boys we hear tell of in story, Come match me for fighting, or frolic, or freak, An Irishman all in his glory. For Ajax and Hector, and bold Agamemnon, Were up to the tricks of our trade, O But the rollicking boys, for wine, women, and noise, @Are the boys of the Irish Brigade, O. What or should I sing you of Helen and Troy, Or the mischief that came by her flirting There's Biddy M'Clinch, the pride of Fermoy, Twice as much of an Helen, that's certain. Then for Venus Medici, or Queen Cleopatra, Bad luck to the word could be said, O But the rollicking boys, for war, women, and noise, Are the boys of the Irish Brigade, O. @What for should I sing of classical fun, Or of games, whether Grecian or Persian Sure the Curragh's the place, where the knowing one's dne, And Mallow that flogs for divarsion. For fighting, for drinking, for women, and all, No time like our times e'er was made, O But the rollicking boys, for war, women, and noi@se, Are the boys of the Irish Brigade, 
 they were gretely beholdynge to Robert, that he had redemed them from theyr mortall enmyes the Sarasyns, this feest was grete and notable and dured xiiij dayes, and whan the feest and brydale was done Robert wolde departe with his lady into Normandye to vysyte his fader and mother, and toke leue of them-perour whiche gaue hym many royall and grete gyftes, as golde and siluer and precyous stones of diuerse colours, also themperour gaue hym knyghtes and squyers to ryde and conduyte hym in to his countree. How Robert and his lady came to Rowanein Normandye with grete honour and worship. ROBERT and his lady rode soo ferre they came into Normandye into the noble cyte of Rowane with grete myrth and solace, where they were receyued with grete tryumphe for the comyntees of the countree were sorye and in grete heuyness that theyr duke Robert's fader was dyseased, for bycause that he was a wyse and a renomed prynce, A lytell besyde dwelled a cursed knyght,whichehaddedonetheduchessegretewrongeand suppressed many knyghtes after her husbondes dysease. But whan Robert was come euery man dradde hym and dyde hym grete reuerence and worshypp, than some sayd we wende he had ben deed, and all the lordes and burgeys of Rowane, gadred them togyder and with grete honoure and reuerence they receyued Robert and helde hym as theyr lorde and souerayne. And whan they hadde receyued hy@m honourably th
 miles to ride, and yet was he better than three houres a riding them so that Fryer Bacon by his art was with the king before he came. The king kindly welcommed him, and said that hee long time had desired to see him for he had as yet not heard of his life. Fryer Bacon answered him that fame had belide him, and given him that report that his poore studies had never deserved, for hee beleeved that art had many sonnes more excellent then himselfe was. The king commended him for his modesty, and told@him, that nothing could become a wise man lesse than boasting but yet withall he requested him now to be no niggard of his knowledge, but to shew his queene and him some of his skill. I were worthy of neither art or knowledge quod Fryer Bacon , should I deny your maiestie this small request I pray seat yourselves, and you shall see pre-sently what my poore skill can performe the king, queene, and nobles sate them all down. They having so done, the fryer waved his wand, and presently was heard such excellent musicke that they were all amazed, for they all said they had never heard the like. This is, said the fryer, to delight the sense of hearing, I will de-light all your other sences ere you depart hence so waving his wand againe, there was lowder musicke heard, and presently five dancers entred, the first like a court-laundresse, the second like a footman, the third like an usurer, the fourth like a prodigall, the fift like a foole these did divers excellent changes, so that they gave content to all the beholders, and having done the
 at the Ice House in our honor that memorable afternoon. Aunt Polly's mission to the Barracouta being crowned with success she departed, waving us adieu, with a hand so black, so large and plump, it seemed as if her farewell was imprinted in our memories in the inkiest, heaviest, fullest-displayed type, and in capitals. We rev-erently signalled her our farewells, as she was rowed shoreward, the magnificence of her many colors blending and softening as she left us farther and farther behind. When she faded out of sight, and finally disappeared in the distance, I closed my aching eyes to rest them. I still beheld bright phantasmagoria dancing before my vision, as if I had gazed all too long at the glories of the setting sun. When I next opened my eyes, it was to examine, for the first time, a genuine Bim-shire swizzle-stick, which the purchaser of Aunt Polly's assortment held before me for my inspection and enlightenment. Knowing from what I had heard on every side, in all the islands, admitted by all men, that the Ice House of Bridgetown was, of all places, the very place at which to pursue any investigations into the mysteries of swizzle, I joined a party of Barracoutans who delayed not in the order of their going, stopping not to bargain with the boatmen nor to cheapen the price of ferriage to the shore, but set off at once for the land, some in blue boats, some in yellow boats or red, others in boats of many colors. In the two miles, free-for-all, straightaway race from the ship to the landing-place, which then and there ensued, it is of record that the gallant Barracoutan who had cleared out Aunt Polly's stock-in-trade came in an easy winner by many lengths. When the rest of the party reached the Ice House in search of swizzle, they found that be had been there for some time indeed, there was unmistakable, uncorked evidence that he had already been there twic
 objects vary, that engage the mind When to religion we confine the word, What use of language can be more absurd ? 'Tis just as true, that many words beside, As love, or zeal, are only thus applied To every kind of life they all belong Men may be eager, tho' their views be wrong And hence the reason why the greatest foes To true religious earnestness are those Who fire their wits upon a different theme, Deep in some false enthusiastic scheme. . . . That which concerns us therefore is to see What species of enthusiasts we be On what materials the fiery source Of thinking life shall execute its force Whether a man shall stir up love, or hate, From the mixed medium of this present state Shall choose with upright heart and mind to rise, And reconnoitre Heaven's primeval skies Or down to lust and rapine to descend, Brute for a time, and demon at its end. Neither perhaps, the wary sceptics cry, And wait till Nature's river shall run dry With sage reserve not passing o'er to good, Of time, lost time, are borne along the flood Content to think such thoughtless thinking right, And common sense enthusiastic flight. . . . When true religion kindles up the fire, Who can condemn the vigorous desire, That burns to reach the end for which 't was given, To shine, and sparkle in its native Heaven ? 175@1. -@Byro
 puchele fille . i . cōte Li ont si barō amene Que il a prisse et espousse De lignage de grāt afaire Bele et gentilz et de boin aire, c. There is a French Morality in MS. Comment il fut enjoient á Robert le Diable, fils du Duc de Norman-die, pour ses Mesfaites de faire le fol, sang parlez et depuis @N. S. eut merci de lui, -@mentioned by Beau-champs's Rech. Theat. de France, p. 109, which doubt-less refers to the same Robert. Of this extraordinary production two translations into English have been printed one in verse which was republished by Mr. Herbert, 8vo. 1798 from a MS. formerly in the possession of Mr. Ratcliffe, which appears to have been transcribed word for word from an edition by @Wynkyn de Worde or Pynson, of which Mr. Herbert had seen a fragment consisting of six leaves. This English Metrical Version is in eight line stanzas, and commences as follows, Lysten lordinges that of maruéyles lyke to heare, Of acts that were done sometyme in dede By oure elders that before vs were How some in myschieffe their lyfe dyd leade And in this boke may ye se yf that ye will rede Of one Robert the deuyll, borne in Normandye, That was as uengeable a man as myht treade On goddes grounde for he delyted in all tyrany
 would, but cannot, with a master's skill, Coin fine new epithets, which mean no ill -Me, thus uncouth, thus every way unfit For pacing poesy, and ambling wit, Taste with contempt beholds, nor deigns to place Amongst the lowest of her favoured race ! -@From The Prophecy of Famine. CCXLIX. REMORSE OF CONSCIENCE. 'TIS not the babbling of a busy world, Where praise and censure are at random hurled, Which can the meanest of my thoughts control, Or shake one settled purpose of my soul Free and at large might their wild curses roam, If all, if all, alas ! were well at home. No ! 'tis the tale which angry Conscience tells,s, When she with more than tragic horror swells Each circumstance of guilt, when stern, but true, She brings bad actions forth into review And, like the dread handwriting on the wall, Bids late Remorse awake at Reason's call Armed at all points, bids scorpion Vengeance pass, And to the mind holds up Reflection's glass,@-The mind which starting heaves the heartfelt groan, And hates that form she knows to be her own. -@Churchill. From The Conference. CCL. DESCRIPTION OF DR. JOHNSON. POMPOSO, insolent and loud, Vain idol of a scribbling crowd, Whose very name inspires an awe, Whose every word is sense and la
 his feet, and in his hond a staf. This noble ensample to his scheep he yaf, That first he wroughte, and afterward he taughte, Out of the gospel he tho wordës caughte, And this figure he addede eek therto, That if gold rustë, what schal yren doo ? For if a prest be foul, on whom we truste, No wonder is a lewëd man to ruste And schame it is, if that a prest tak keep, A filthy schepherde and a clenë scheep Wel oughte a prest ensample for to yive, By his clennesse, how that his scheep schulde lyve. He settë not his benefice to hyre, And leet his scheep encombred in the myre, And ran to Londone, unto seyntë Poules, To seeken him a chaunterie for soules. Or with a bretherhede to ben withholde But dwelte at hoom, and keptë wel his folde, So that the wolf ne made it not myscarye He was a schepherd and no mercenarie. And though he holy were, and vertuous. He was to sinful man nought despitous, Ne of his spechë daungerous ne digne, But in his teching discret and benigne. To drawë folk to heven by fairnesse By good ensample, this was his busynesse But it were eny persone obstinat, What so he were, of high or lowe estat, Him wolde he snybb@ë scharply for the nonës. A better preest, I trowe, ther nowher non is. He waytede after no pompe and reverence, Ne makede him a spiced conscience, But Cristës lore, and his apostles twelve, He taughte, but first he folwede it himselve. -@Chauc
 quoth one, I pray you doe this office your selfe, you haue had most losse, and therefore you should be the most ready to hang them your selfe. No, not I quoth Hodgkins, though my losse were ten times greater then it is, notwithstanding look which of these Theeues will take vpon him to hang the other, shall haue his life saued, otherwise they shall all to prison till I can prouide a hangman. When Wallis saw the matter brought to this passe, he began stoutly to reply, saying, My masters of the Towne of Halifax, though your priuiledge stretch to hang men vp presently that are found stealing of your goods, yet it giues you no warrant to imprison them till you prouide them a hang-man, my selfe, with these my fellowes, haue here yeelded our selues to satisfie the Law, and if it be not performed, the fault is yours, and not ours, and therefore we humbly take our leaue from the gallowes the xviii of August. And with that he leapt from the ladder, and hurl'd the halter at Hodgkins face. When the Clothiers saw this, they knew not what to say, but taking them by the sleeues, entreated to haue their owne againe. Not so, qd. Wallis, you get not the value of a packe or a bawby wee haue stolne your cloth, then why doe you not hang vs ? here we haue made our selues ready, and if you will not hang vs, chuse. A plague vpon you, quoth he, you haue hindred me God knowes what, I made account to dine this day in heauen, and you keepe me here on earth where the
 thou whorson cricket, quoth Iarrat, thou maggat-apie, thou spinner, thou paultry spider, doat thou take me for a deuill ? Sirra, take my word, I charge thee, for this man, or else goodman butter-fly, Ile make thee repent it. The Officer, while he was in the house, said, he was cōtent, but as soon as he came into the street, he cryed, saying Helpe, helpe, good neighbors, or else the deuill will carry away my prisoner notwithstanding, there was not one man would stirre to be the Catchpoles aide. Which when he saw, he tooke fast hold on Thomas Doue, and would not by any meanes let him goe. Iarrat seeing this, made no more adoe, but comming to the Officer, gaue him such a fillop on the forehead with his finger, that he fell the poore Fleming to the ground and while he lay in the street stretching his heeles, Iarrat tookeDoue vnder his arme and carried him home, where he thought himselfe as safe, as King Charlemaine in Mount-albion. The next morning Iarrat conueyed Doue out of Towne, who afterward kept him in the Country, and came no more in the Catchpoles clawes. How Duke Robert came a wooing to Margaret with the white hand, and how he appointed to come and steale her away from her Masters. Chap. 10. THE beautiful Margaret, who had now dwelt with her Dame the space of foure yeeres, was highly regarded and secretly beloued of many gallant and worthy Ge
 of the scenery of St. Kitt's or Nevis. Nevertheless, this island pos-sesses a beauty of its own, which feasts the eye and satisfies the mind. I do not choose to render the judgment of Paris concerning the com-parative beau'ty of the many lovely Caribbean islands we visited dur-ing our voyage they are all beautiful, differing each one from the other only as one star differeth from another in glory or, to borrow an unpoetical illustration from a member of our own party, who, when pressed to decide the question, was reminded of the old Kentuckian who, in the shanks of the evening, was wont to maintain there was no such thing as bad Kentucky whiskey, ad-mitting with extreme reluctance, even in the early-sermons and soda-water period of the day after, that it might be possible some Kentucky whiskey was better than others. Shortly after the Barracouta drop-ped anchor in the harbor of St. John's, as has been already related, she was surrounded, as at St. Christopher the day before, by a fleet of bumboats containing fruit-sellers and hucksters -@all yelling at the top of their  whenever a possible customer appeared at the side of the ship. The inevitable washerwoman also proclaimed her presence, lifting up her voice in shrillest treble, as clearly and distinctly audible as fife-notes heard above the din of battle. Those of the passengers who were ready to go ashore took passage in a well-appointed steam-launch, thereby exciting the ill-concealed disgust of the darkies, who looked upon this recently established competition as an unwarrantable inva-sion of their ancient monopoly as ferrymen. A shallow bar, separating the inner from the outer harbor of S
 and abler passed you by How strong are those, how weak am I ! Should I presume to bear you hence, Those friends of mine may take offence. Excuse me, then. You know my heart But dearest friends, alas ! must part. How shall we all lament@!@-@Adieu, For see, the hounds are just in view !  FROM THE ESSAY ON MAN. HEAVEN from all creatures hides the book of fate, All but the page prescribed, their present state From brutes what men, from men what spirits know, Or who could suffer being here below ? The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day, Had he thy reason, would he skip and play ? Pleased to the last, he crops the flowery food, And licks the hand just raised to shed his blood. Oh blindness to the future ! kindly given, That each may fill the circle marked by Heaven, Who sees with equal eye, as God of all, A hero perish, or a sparrow fall Atoms or systems into ruin hurled, And now a bubble burst, and now a world. Hope humbly then with trembling pinions soar Wait the great teacher death, and God adore. What future bliss, He gives not thee to know, But gives that hope to be thy blessing now. Hope springs eternal in the human breast Man never is, but always to be blest. The soul, uneasy, and confined from home, Rests and expatiates in a life to com
 cold day I left New York. It was delightful to awaken in the morning refreshed by these al fresco slumbers, experiencing nope of the sensations of languor which generally render the operation of dress-ing in the state-room so tedious and discouraging. All one had to do was to open one's eyes, sit up, and straightway begin to eat of the fruit placed within reach the night before watch the sun rise, bundle up one's bed, and stow it out of the way of the sailors when they began washing the decks. We even enjoyed witnessing that operation, usu-ally so maddening to sleepy-heads below, as I can testify from drowsy experience gained on Cunard or White Star steamers, for often have I been awakened by the sound of scrubbing and squeegeeing over my head when I thought the merciless tar above would scrub a hole in the deck and tumble in upon me@-@bucket, squeegee, wet feet, and all. After sunrise and fruit, it was the height of luxury it is one of the most delightful reminiscences of the trip to saunter forward, and tip a sailor to give one a good sousing with sea-water. Those of us who tried the experiment daily were compelled to station ourselves near one of the scuppers in the forecastle while Jack Tar ducked us with a stream from the deck-hose, sometimes directed against us with mis-chievous suddenness and force, to the great amusement of his grinning mates. Afterward we were thoroughly groomed, oftentimes with such heart@y good-will that we were ready to cry out at being so vigorously polished off, as the sailors called the operation of setting us in a glow. Then@-@well, then@-@we ate a little fruit while dressing, strolled aft to our state-rooms, and partook of occasional fruit till we sat down to a breakfast which consisted principally of the same delightful diet. Every morning the Doctor gently announced his return to conscious-ness, and oranges, by drawing sundry deep and comfortable sighs, that I may not better describe than by saying they sounded like long-needed holiday sighs of rest@fulness. He evidently enjoyed inflating, not only his lungs, but his entire subject with the fresh trades. He seemed to know, by reason of much study of matters anatomical, how to distribute the pure air into his innermost recesses as if he we
 all this while heard him with admiration but hearing him now, that hee would undertake to win the towne, hee burst out in these speeches mostlearned Bacon, doe but what thou hast said, and I will give thee what thou most desirest, either wealth, or honour, choose which thou wilt, and I will be as ready to per-forme, as I have been to promise. Your maiesties love is all that I seeke said the fryer let mee have that, and I have honour enough, for wealth, I have content, the wise should seek no more but to the purpose. Let your pioniers raise up a mount so high, or rather higher than the wall, and then shall you see some probability of that which I have promised. This mount in two days was raised then Fryer Bacon went with the king to the top of it, and did with a perspect shew to him the towne, as plainly as if hee had beene in it at this the king did wonder, but Fryer Bacon told him, that he should wonder more, ere next day noone against which time, he desired him to have his whole army in readinesse, for to scale the wall upon a signal given by him, from the mount. This the king promised to doe, and so returned to his tent full of joy, that he should gain this strong towne. In the morning Fryer Bacon went up to the mount and set his glasses, and other instruments up in the meane time the king ordered his army, and stood in a readinesse for to give the assaults when the signal was given, which was the waving of a flagge ere nine of the clocke Fryer Bacon had burnt the state-house of the towne, with oth
 great joy and bothering 30000 bright sovereigns, I've got for Maynooth which they ne'er had before Now I'll turn for a farce that a Methodist parson, And jump raund the house singing do it no more. Then out holloaed Daniel, my name is O' Connell, Brought up in sweet Kerry and trained to the law, My station is heavy, I can hold a Levee, I am King of old Ireland and Erin-go-bragh @! I am bold and well hardened, and dont care a farden, For those who once strove to make me deplore, By none I'll be taken boiled cabbage and bacon, They quodded me once but they'll do it no more. Now let me approach then ye cooks and ye coachmen, You footmen and servants of every degree, If out in the stable or under the table, You have danced to a hornpipe called twee diddle dee By noon night and morning from me take a warning, Such vile naughty tricks strive to quickly give o'er, For fear of him tellng the tide may be swelling, And you may get nicked so do it no more. You brewers and bakers, you butchers and quakers, @@@You cobblers and carpenters all of a row, You hatters and weavers dustmen and coalheavers, @@Masone and chimney sweeps mind how you go, You soldiers and sailors, you prigs and you tailors, If ever you cause your wives to deplore, If ever you beat them go home and treat them, Kiss them, and say, love I'll do it no more. You damsels so pretty in country and city, If you in your lifetimes have e'er been astray, @Such work to end it your life try to mend it. And like Cinderella keep in all the day. Dont out girls be flocking butmend up your stockings, Comb your hair wash your faces and virtue adore, Seek for retribution with a firm resolution, And if you've done wrong maidens do it no more. All you that are single in harmony mingle, And say that you'll never be left in the lurch, Moping single dont tarry but strife for to marry, Look out for a partner and toddle to church, And when you have hurried to church and got married Live and be happy each other adore, Then you you'll not be forsaken sing fried eggs bacon @The Queen and Prince Albert and do it no  the Q-@and P-A so buxom and all pert, Were jovially conversing together one day, @Old Bull heard them talking as they were a walking, And V@-@unto A@-@so boldly did say, The state seems bewildering about little children,@@ And we ore increasing every day, you know we have 4, @@We kindly do treat them and seldom do beat them, So A@-@dear A@-@well do it no more, Do it no more, so A-@dear A-@we'll do it no more Said A, my dearest there's nothing thou fearest, @@@@Thou art loved and respected in every degree, @If old Bull dont like it, why then he may pipe it, @@And kiss our royal twins, twee diddl@e dee, So do not degrade me and try to persuare me, All pleasure and pastime to freely give o'er, If you do I'll be jolting, and off I'll be bolting, Right over the seas singing do it no more. An old antti-reformer lives near Hyde park corner, A regular old swaddy who wears scarlet clothes, Theres is no one bolder than this rum old soldier, Le him go where he will he his known by his nose, Me cried shoulder arms boys and banish alarm boys, The 18th of June now will shortly be o'er, He once strong and hearty whopped oid Buonapate, But pipe-clay and powder will do it no more. Then Bobby so clever sung Maynooth for ever, I have beat all my opponents now plainly you see. Bishops and cellar flaps Maynooth and Rat Traps, Next Sun@day fortnight all Catholics we'll b
 and in the Roxburgh sale The pleasant History of Thomas of Reading@, 4to. 1636, produced 5l. 15s. 6d. The following entry in the Henslowe MSS. shews that it was made the subject of a dramatic per-formance 12 Nov. 1601. The six Clothiers of the West, by Richard Hathway, Wentworth Smith and Wm. Haughton. The second part of The Six Clothiers by the same. Thomas of Reading had, however, been preceded by two works of similar character. The earliest, The pleasant Historie of John Winchcomb, in his younger yeares called Jack of Newbery, the famous and worthy Clothier of England declaring his life and love, together with his charitable deeds and great Hospitali-tie, c., entered in the Stationers' Hall as early as 7th May, 1596, and of which the eighth edition appeared in 1619, 4to. The third work of this character, for which we are indebted to Deloney, is The Gentle Craft, a most merry and pleasant History, not altogether unprofitable nor any way hurtfull very fitte to passe away the tediousness of the long winters evenings entered in the Stationers' Books on the 15th October, 1597, and of which 
 One bird in hand is worth two in bush if thou dost not arrest him presently, I will not giue thee two pence for thy x. shillings. How shall I come by him, quoth the other ? giue me but two pots of ale, and Ile betray him, said he. So they being agreed, this smooth-faced Iudas comes to his latemaster, and told him that a friend of his at the doore would speake with him. The vnmistrusting man thinking no euill, went to the doore where presently an Officer arrested him at his mans suite. The poore man seeing this, being strucken into a sudden sorrow, in the griefe of his heart spake to this effect Ah thou lewd fellow, art thou the first man that seekes to augment my miserie ? Haue I thus long giuen thee bread, to breed my ouerthrow ? and nourisht thee in thy neede, to worke my destruction ? Full little did I thinke, when thou so often diddest dip thy false fingers in my dish, that I gaue food to my chiefest foe but what boote complaints in these extremes ? Goe wife, quoth he, vnto my neighbours, and see if thou canst get any of them to be my baile. Hut in vaine was her paines spent. Then he sent to his kinsfolkes, and they denied him to his brother, and he would not come at him, so that there was no shift, but to prison he must but as he was going, a Messenger met him with a letter from Master Cole, wherein as you heard, hee had promised him two hundred pounds which when the poore man read, hee greatly reioyced, and shewing the same to t
FAREWELL. F AREWELL to Old Ireland the, place of my nativity, It's now I am bound for fair Columbia's shore, Too long have we spent in the stage of captivity, @@@A@@dieu to Old Ireland, I'll never see you more.@@@@ Since trade has got a fall, at home I cannot stay at all, Rents, tithes, and taxes, I'm not able to pay, So from this bondage I'll get free, unto the @land of liberty, Adieu to Old Ireland I must now away. Now brothers dear, it grieves my heart, to think with you I have to part, And leave this fertile island where first my breath I  here alone I cannot stay, to spend my days in I am going to America my fortune to pursue. I@m going to sail the ocean, not knowing what will me betide, My precious life to venture as my brothers did before Upwards of th ee and thirty years, we have spent in the vale of tears, Adieu to Old Ireland, I shall never see you more. Four hundred years the chosen band, were slaves in the Egyptian land, By haughty King Pharaoh were sorely oppress'd They were employed I've heard them say, at making bricks both night and day, And thro' their taskmaster they could find no rest. But Moses being a holy man, got orders from the great I AM, @@@@@@And from the house of bondage, he set his people free, He led them to Arabia's shore, where they had come to weep no more, Till after all they got safe to the land of liberty. Sin was the cause of their distress, that kept them in the wilderness, And sin is the occasion of our calamity, For pride has got into some folks, the poor must lie under their yokes, I don't see any method by which they can get free. Provision is not so high, where is the money it to buy, Tradesmen have not got it, neither have the poor, There's so@me of it too@-@goes, and that you may rely upon,@@@@@@@ And others turned bankrupts, and closed up their doors. Now brethen dear I must away time won't permit me here to stay, I fear I ne'er again will see the shamrock shore, And tho' I leave her behind, I'll always bear her in my  hope the trade will flourish through Old  freedom, harmony, and love, and every blessing from above, @@@@@@Attend this happy island, where pinks and violets grow, And Israelites act sincere, awhile your cross with pa-tience bear, @@Adieu to Old Ireland, I shall never see you more. ANNIE LAURIE.  AXWELTON braes are bonny,@@@ Where early fa's the dew, '@@Twas there that Annie Laurie, Gi'ed me a promise true. Gi'ed me a promise true, Which ne'er forgot shall be, And for bonnie Annie Laurie, I'd lay me down and dee. Her skin is like the sna' drift, Her neck is like the swan, And her brow it is the fairest That e'er the sun shone on. That e'er the sun shone on, And dark blue is her e'e, And for bonnie Annie Laurie, I'd lay me down and dee. Like dew on the gowan lying, Is the fa' o' her fairy feet, And like winds in summer sighing, Her voice is low and sweet. Her voice is low and sweet, And she's a' the world to me, And for bonnie Annie Laurie, I'll lay me down and dee. SWEET ROSE of  morning broke in blushes o'er me, As up the sunny hills I strayed, A beauteous form appêared before me, When thus I spoke the lovely maid. Sweet maid, ah, whither dost thou roam? Thine eye is Cupid's piercing arrow Thy name@-@ah, prythee tell me, love ! She said, they call me, Rose of Yarrow. Be mine, sweet maid, and fond I'll cherish, Those blooming charms have won my heart, And sooner, dearest, would I perish, Than one pang to thee impart. She blushed, consented, the village peal, Rang for our nuptials on the morrow, And blest for ever do I feel, Possess'd of thee, sweet Rose of Yarrow. 452. L
 thus, Robert and his company ledde an ungracious lyfe also he was a grete glotten of etynge and drynk-ynge, and neuer fastynge, though it were neuer so grete a fastynge daye. In Lente, or on Ymber dayes, he ete flesshe, as well on Frydayes as on Sondayes but after he had done all this myschefe, he suffred grete payne, an hereafter ye shal here. How Robert the Deuyll killed vii heremytes. IT befell upon a tyme that Robert, whiche euer ima-gyned and studyed in his mynde howe and by what meane he might doo moost myschefe and murdre, as he had ben ever accustomed before he rode out of his hous or theuyshe neste to seke his pray, and in the myddel of the wode he sawe vii hooly heremytes, to whome he rode as faste as he coulde with his swerde redy drawen, lyke a man oute of his mynde, and there he slewe this vii heremytes, the whiche were bolde and good men, but they were so vertuous and holy, that they suffred the marterdome for the loue of God. And whan he had slayne these vii devout men, he spake in mockage, and sayd I haue founde here a neste of a many pope holy horsons whome I haue shauen them crounes I trowe they be dronke they were wonte to kneke upon theyr knees, and now they lye upon theyr backes. There dyde Robert a cursed dede and blode shedynge, in de-spy@te of God and holy chyrche and after that he hadde done this myscheuous dede he rode out of the wode lyke a deuyll out of helle, semynge worse thenne wod
 fathomest the deep gulf of ages past, And canst pluck up with ease The years which thou dost please, Like shipwrecked treasures, by rude tempests cast Long since into the sea, Brought up again to light and public use by thee. Nor dost thou only dive so low, but fly With an unwearied wing the other way on high, Where Fates among the stars do grow There into the close nests of Time dost peep, And there, with piercing eye, Through the firm shell and the thick white, dost spy Years to come a-forming lie, Close in their sacred secondine † asleep, Till, hatched by the sun's vital heat, Which o'er them yet does brooding set,@‡ They life and motion get And, ripe at last, with vigorous might Break through the shell, and take their everlasting flight. -@Cowley. CLXII. BEYOND THE VEIL. THEY are all gone into the world of light@! And I alone sit lingering here Their very memory is fair and bright, And my sad thoughts doth clear. It glows and glitters in my cloudy breast, Like stars upon some gloomy grove, Or those faint beams in which this hill is drest, After the sun's remove. The white of an egg. † Sccondinc obsolete , the thin film with which an infant is covered in the womb, so called because it follows the child. This is from the note in the ed. of 1710, and a similar explanation is given in Blount's Dictionary, 1670. In Campbell's and other modern editions of Cowley it is altered to ' fecundine sleep '. ‡ Set, as a hen on egg
 oh stay ! nor thus forlorn Leave me unblessed, unpitied, here to mourn In yon bright track, that fires the western skies, They melt, they vanish from my eyes. But oh ! what solemn scenes on Snowdon's height Descending slow their glittering skirts unroll ? Visions of glory, spare my aching sight ! Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul ! No more our long-lost Arthur we bewail All hail, ye genuine kings, Britannia's issue, hail ! III. 2. ' Girt with many a baron bold Sublime their starry fronts they rear And gorgeous dames, and statesmen old In bearded majesty, appear. In the midst a form divine ! Her eye proclaims her of the Briton-line Her lion-port, her awe-commanding face, Attempered sweet to virgin-grace. That strings symphonious tremble in the air, That strains of vocal transport round her play ! Hear from the grave, great Taliessin, hear They breathe a soul to animate thy clay. Bright Rapture calls, and soaring, as she sings, Waves in the eye of Heaven her many-coloured  Both Merlin and Taliessin had prophesied that the Welsh should regain their sovereignty over this island, which seemed to be accomplished in the house of Tudor.'@-@Gray. By ' Britannia's issue ' and ' Briton-line ' he means of Welsh de-scent, the original Celts and Britons having been driven to Wales. The bard then sees in Elizabeth the Welsh line restored and a bardic era including Spenser, Shakspere, and Milton. 121. Taliessin, chief of the bards in the sixth centur
 wrought a silence, from the store there shrills The cricket's song, in warmth increasing ever, And seems to one in drowsiness half lost, The grasshopper's among some grassy hills. -@ OF ENGLAND. MEN of England ! who inherit Rights that cost your sires their blood ! Men whose undegenerate spirit Has been proved on land and flood -By the foes you've fought uncounted, By the glorious deeds ye've done, Trophies captured@-@breaches mounted, Navies conquered@-@kingdoms won ! Yet, remember, England gathers Hence but fruitless wreaths of fame, If the freedom of your fathers Glow not in your hearts the same. What are monuments of bravery, Where do public virtues bloom ? What avail, in lands of slavery, Trophied temples, arch and tomb ? Pageants !@-@Let the world revere us For our people's rights and laws, And the breast of civic heroes Bared in Freedom's holy cause. Yours are Hampden's, Russell's, glory, Sydney's matchless shade is yours,@-Martyrs in heroic story, Worth a hundred Agincourts ! We're the sons of sires that baffled Crowned and mitred tyranny -They defied the field and scaffold For their birthright@-@so will we@! -@Campbe
 by rows of trees and embellished by a fountain that flows in front of the Hôtel de Paris, the oldest house of entertainment in the place. The Trinidad Club has its quarters in one of the business streets, and as I enjoyed the privileges of that most hospit-able institution during my stay in Port of Spain I can speak, from gratifying experience, of the comfortable arrangement of the building and the good-fellowship and the courtesy of its members. I did not find time to visit the Pitch Lake of La Brea, nor the Mud Volcanoes of Monkey Town therefore I had best dismiss them from my narrative with the statement that, had time served, I could have gone to both these natural wonders as well as to the Maracas Waterfall three hun-dred and fifty feet in height by steam-boat or train, leaving Port of Spain one day and returning the next. I did have time, however, to go to San Fernando, the second city of importance in Trinidad, the cen-tre of the sugar-producing district of Naparima journeying thither by rail, through a most interesting country@, passing many quaint and pict-uresque negro and Hindu settlements, hurrying through magnificent forests and jungles of bamboo, whisking by innumerable plantations of cocoa, sugar-cane, and orchards of ripening fruits. It was harvest, crop-time, and fruit-season in Trinidad therefore, and by that token, all the darkies were fat and jolly@-@the coolies were less cadaverous-looking than at other seasons of the year. These Asiatics, even in cane-time, however, do not lose their characteristically emaciated ap-pearance, but at all times look, as it is to be expected human beings will appear, who are descended from the inhabitants of a densely populated country where the common people are forced to live, as Hindus have lived for generations, on the shortest rations of innu-tritions food. As applied to India, the theory of natural selection im-plies the survival of those individuals, and only those, who inherit the faculty of sustaining life on the smallest daily allowance of badly prepared eatables. Hindus cursed with human appetites or delicate digestive organs must inevitably succumb earliest in the struggle for existence. What wonder, then, that a cooly field-hand, be he nev
 seruyse, I haue gyuen you good wages, for who-souer serueth a good mayster he is lyke to haue good wages. Whan Rohert thus had done he wolde have brente the hous, but he consydered the great good that was therin, wherfore he let it stande, shytte faste the dores about and locked them, and brought awaye the keye with hym to his faders. How Robert the Deuyll sente the keye of his chefe hous or theuysshe lodgynge to his faders the duke of Normandye, and how he wente to Rome. THAN whan Robert had done all that said is, he tooke up his hande and blessed hym, and rode through the forest the neere waye to Rome. Robert rode that daye so long tyll that the nyght came on, and was passynge sore and hongred, for he had eten no mete of all that daye, and fortuned to come rydynge by an Abbaye, whyche he had many tymes robbed, and the abbote was his kynnessman, and Robert rode in to this abbaye and sayd neuer a worde, but whan the monkes se Robert come they were aferde, and ranne awaye, saynge one to another, Here cometh the ungracyous Robert, the Deuyll hath brought him hether. Whan Robert herde this, and se them all renne awaye frome him, than his sorowe begun to renewe, and sayd in himself, in sore syghynge and sorowfull herte I may well hate my cursed lyfe, for euery man fleeth from me, and I haue spent my tyme ungracyously, and in euyll and cursed werkes, and there withall he rode streyg
 IN PRAISE OF SPENSER. ALL their pipes were still, And Colin Clout began to tune his quill With such deep art that every one was given To think Apollo, newly slid from Heaven, Had ta'en a human shape to win his love, Or with the western swains for glory strove. He sung th' heroic knights of Fairy-land In lines so elegant, of such command, That had the Thracian played but half so well, He had not left Eurydice in Hell. But ere he ended his melodious song An host of angels flew the clouds among, And rapt this swan from his attentive mates, To make him one of their associates In heaven's fair choir where now he sings the praise Of Him that is the first and last of days. Divinèst Spenser, heaven-bred, happy Muse ! Would any power into my brain infuse Thy worth, or all that poets had before, I could not praise till thou deserv'st no more. 1613. -@Browne's Britannia's Pastorals. XCV. THE HAPPY LIFE. HOW happy is he born and taught, That serveth not another's will Whose armour is his honest thought, And simple truth his utmost skill  of Hawthornden wrote of Ben Jonson, who visited him in 1618-19, ' Sir @H. Wotton's verses of a happy life he hath by heart 
W HEN I was young and scarce eighteen, I drove a roaring trade, And many a sly trick I have played With many a servant maid My parents found that would not do, I soon should spend their store, So they resolved that I should go, On board of a man-of-war. Fol de rol, c. A bold pressgang surrounded me, Their warrant they did show, And swore that I should go to sea And face the daring foe So off they lugged me to the boat, Oh, how I cursed my fate, 'Twas then I found that I must float, On board of a ninety-eight. When first I put my foot on board, How I began to stare, Our Admiral he gave the word, There is no time to spare.@@@@@@ They weighed their anchor, shook out sail, And off they bore me straight, To watch the foe in storm and gale, On board of a ninety-eight. Before we reached America, They made me know my drill, drill, They soon learnt me a nimble way To handle an iron pill. In course of time a fight begun, When bold Jack tars laid straight, What would I give if I could run From on board of a ninety-eight. But as time flew, I bolder grew, And hardened was to war, I'd run aloft with my ship's crew, And valued not a scar. So well I did my duty, Till I got Boatswain's mate, And d@-@e soon got Boatswain too, On board of a ninety-eight. So years rolled @by at Trafalgar Brave Nelson fought and fell, As they capsized that hardy tar, I got a rap as well. COME LET  together, For where there's a will there's a way, And the heart be as light as a feather, If maxims like mine bear the sway. First pack @up a store of contentment, Who knows not the way is a dunce, If wronged never dream of resentment, Get rid of such folly at once. Listen to me ! To be kind, 'tis t@he way to meet kindness, If not, what's the use of regre@t @? Rail not at the world fur its blindness, But pity, forgive, and forget. Our old friends no doubt will be true friends, The longer we love them the more, But shut not your eyes against new friends, Though one be but true in a score Prize the une you have proved a jewel, With which 'twould be madness to part, Who would carelessly throw by the fuel Which keeps up the warmth of the heart ? Listen to me ! Of true souls how sweet the communion, Throughout the wide world as we roam, Then to keep up the strong chain of union, Let us rivet the fund links at home. On board of a Ninety eight, Contin. @@To Greenwich college I then came, Because I saved my pate, They only knock'd one wing off Jack, On board of a ninety-eight. So now my cocoa I can take, My pouch with baccy stored,@@@@@ With my blue clothes and three-cock'd hat, I'm as happy as a Lord. I have done my duty, served my King, And now I bless my fate, But d@-@e, I'm too old to sing, O@n board of a ninety-eigh
 -@H. SUCH Machine Printer Pub-lisher, 177, Union-street,  out of Northumberland county I came I married a damsel just twenty and one, And the very day after my sorrows begun. Oh ! what shall I do to get rid of my pain, I wish to the Lord I was single again And, oh, that I had in my coffin been laid, Before I had married a silly young maid. To please her I called her my love and my dear, She frowns, and she calls me a silly old bear, And if I say nothing to settle the strife, She beats me within half-an-inch of my life. For her breakfast she always gets coffee or tea, While thin water porridge is given to me room, Then I wash up the tea-things and sweep up the Or she'll instantly break my head with a broom. Each day as we sit at the table to dine, She will give me cold water while she drinks wine, A@nd if I should speak but a word out of place, A lump of cold pudding comes slap in my face. When supper time comes and we sit down to meat, There's nothing but dainties she chooses to eat Of rich pies and puddings she'll always approve, @And sweetmeats of all kinds she also doth love. When she comes to bed to me she cannot lie still, But keeps me awake against my own will With pinching and kicking and rubbing my shins She puzzles my head to know what she means. One night she was dressing to go to the play, In fine silks and satins so costly and gay, To prevent me from going she played me a rig, And straightway set fire to my holiday wig. Now if she should sicken and happen to die, I think in my heart I should sicken with joy, For if she were dead it would end all my strife, I'd make myself happy the rest of my life. reducated me-@good learning gave to me, They bound me apprentice to a miller with whom I did agree, Till I fell courting a pretty lass with a black and a rolling eye, @@@@@I promised to marry her if she would with me lie. I courted her six long months, a little now and then, I was ashamed to marry her being so young a man, Till at length she proved with child by me, and thus she then did say, O Johnny do but marry me, or else with love I die. I went unto her sister's house at eight o'clock at night, And little did this fair one know I owed her a spite, I asked her if she'd take a walk into the meadows gay, And there we'd sit talk awhile about our wedding day. I took a stick out of the hedge and hit her on the crown, The blood from this young innocent came trickling on the ground She on her bended knees did fall and loud for mercy cried, Saying, Johnny, dear, don't murder me, think of our poor child. I took her by the yellow locks and dragged her to the ground, And then to the river side where I threw her body down With blood from this young innocent my hands and feet were dyed, And if you'd seen her in her bloom, she was fit to be my bride. I went into my master's house at ten o'clock at night, @My master getting out of bed and striking a light, He asked and questioned me what dyed my hands and clothes ? I made a fit answer, I was bleeding at the nose. I then took up a candle to light myself to bed, And all that blessed long night my own true love lay dead, And all that blessed long night no sleep could I find, For the burning flames of torment all round my eyes did shine. In two or three days after, this fair maid was missed, I was taken on suspicion and into prison cast Her sister prosecuted me for my own awful doubt, Her sister prosecuted me for taking of her out. In two or three days after this fair maid was found, Came floating by her mother's door that was near to Wexford town The judge and the jury they quickly did agree, For the murder of my true love that hanged I should b
 so there is no woman in the world that knowes how to please you that we thinke our selues accurst to be married wiues, liuing with so many woes. These men, of whose company you forewarne vs, are for ought that euer we saw both honest and courteous, and in wealth farre beyond your selues then what reason is there, why we should restraine to visit them ? is their good will so much to be requited with scorne, that their cost may not be counteruailed with our company ? if a woman be disposed to play light of loue, alas, alas doe you thinke that you can preuent her ? Nay, wee will abide by it, that the restraint of liberty inforceth women to be lewd for where a woman cannot be trusted, she cannot thinke her selfe beloued, and if not beloued, what cause hath she to care for such a one ? therefore husbands, reforme your opinions, and doe not worke your owne woes, with our discredit. The Clothiers, we tell you, are iolly fellowes, and but in respect to our courtesie, they would scorne our company. The men hearing their wiues so well to plead for themselues, knew not how to answere, but@ said, they would put the burden on their consciences, if they deale vniustly with them, and so left them to their owne wills. The women hauing thus conquered their husbands con-ceits, would not leaue the fauour of their friends for frownes, and as aboue the rest Tom Doue was the most pleasantest, so was he had in most reputation with the women, who for his sake made this Song Welcome to Towne, Tom Doue, Tom Doue, The merriest man aliu
 States was estimated, with reasonable accuracy, to be three thousand five hundred millions of dollars. In 1864 the Rebellion was crushed, the slaves were free, and the United States Government had incurred a debt almost precisely equal in amount to the valuation set on the total number of slaves held in bondage four years before. It has cost much money to rid our race of the disgrace entailed on it by the success attending Sir John Hawkins in his first business-venture of bringing a cargo of colored men from Africa to work on the planta-tions in America. The history of Antigua is by no means dry reading, as a few brief extracts, copied into my note-book from volumes in the public library of St. John's, will show. Columbus, having discovered Antigua and given it its name, de-serted the island, and nothing is known of it until Antonio Serrano failed in an attempt to plant a colony upon it in 1520. From that year, except by such Europeans as were cast upon it by the mischance of shipwreck, Antigua remained unexplored until Charles I. of Eng-land granted it to his unworthy favorite the Earl of Carlisle, who, how-ever, set small store upon it, preferring to send out colonists to St. Christopher, twenty leagues farther to the east. In 1692, M. D'Es-nambuc with a party of French crossed from St. Kitt's, but after a short stay in Antigua abandoned it on account of the scarcity of sweet water. He was followed by General Sir Thomas Warner, the English Gov-ernor of St. Kitt's, who colonized Antigua, or Antego as he called it, in 1632, and for eight years his settlement prospered. Then the Caribs came from Dominica and made great slaughter of the colonists, carry-ing off in their retreat many women and children, among them the wife and babe of the governor himself. In the days of Cromwell the Antiguans refused to acknowledge the Commonwealth, until Sir George Ayscue forcibly convinced them that, if the Lord Protector had not indeed been crowned, he was nevertheless every inch a king. After the restoration Charles II. granted the island to Lord Francis Willoughby, who perished at sea in a hurricane that wrecked his fle
 a group of citizens gathered around a bulletin-board, on which were exhibited certain cablegrams, containing, in a few words, the gist of London news, flashed via New York at the close of business the preceding day. Ignoring the commercial reports and sugar-quotations of which there were many@-@all of them, no doubt, of great impor-tance to the Bims , I read with lively interest the war news, as the latest intelligence concerning the apparently inevitable outbreak of hostilities in Central Asia was prematurely called by valiant islanders obviously eager for the fray. One long message announcing the simultaneous arrival of Russian and English war-ships in American waters seemed in some indefinite way calculated to involve me per-sonally in a possible international complication therefore I resolved that, in the event of my opinion, as an American citizen, on the East-ern question being asked for, any time that day, either to maintain a diplomatic silence, or, in view of the disorganized condition of the American Navy, to take refuge in such inoffensive statements as seemed to be suggested by the American doctrine of non-interference in foreign affairs. A gentleman who expressed his disgust with the lack of stiffness of Gladstone's backbone, charging that statesm
 to maintaine her valour, which I will seeke to cherish in all I may, and with my sword keepe my selfe in possession of that I haue, KingsandLouers can brooke no partners and therefore let my Brother Robert thinke, that although hee was Heir to England by birth, yet I am King by possession. All his fauourers I must account my foes, and will serue them as I did the vn-gratefull Earle of Shrewsbury, whose lands I haue seized, and banisht bis body. But now we will leaue the king to his iourney into Wales, and waiting his home returne, in the meane time tell you the meeting of these iolly Clothiers at London. How William of Worcester, Gray of Gloucester, and old Cole of Reading, met altogether at Reading, and of their communication by the way as they rode to London. Chap. 2. WHEN Gray of Glocester, and William of Worcester were come to Reading, according to their custome, they alwayes called old Cole to haue his companie to London, who also duely attended their comming, hauing pro-uided a good breakefast for them and when they had well refreshed themselues, they tooke their horses and rode on towards the Citie and in their iourney Wil-liam of Worcester asked them if they had not heard of the Earle of Moraigne his escape out of the Land ? What is he fled qd. Gray ? I muse much at this matter, being in such great regard with the King as he was but I pray you, doe you not know the cause of his goin
 obtained, he might have made out the tradition of making a brazen wall about England, that is, the most powerful defence or strongest fortification which gold could have effected. The fable of his wonderful perspective glass evi-dently derives its origin from his well-known skill in optics, to the improvement of which science he greatly contributed. The Camera Obscura and Burning Glass, both of which are obviously alluded to in the Ro-mance, are mentioned by Bacon in his Opus Magus, and the supposition which has arisen from a passage in that work, that he was the Inventor of the Teles-cope, derives additional confirmation from the evidence thus afforded by tradition. His stratagem to save the lives of three brethren is borrowed from the Gesta Romanorum, and is the 45th Story, fol. 38, of the edition printed at Paris, by Jehan Petit, 8vo. 1506 while Miles conjuring for meat, resembles in its incidents @The @-wick, a tale supposed to be written by Dunbar, who died about 1525, which is printed in Pinkerton's Scotch Poems, vol. i. p. 65. The contention between Bacon, Bungay and Vandermast, though productive of many wonderful feats of art, will hardly bear com-parison in that respect with the following contest, recorded by Dubravius, Hist. Bo@hem. and repeated 
 clothes meet to keepe keene cold away, And naked nature seemely to array, With which bare wretched wights he dayly clad, The images of God in earthly clay And, if that no spare clothes to give he had, His owne cote he would cut, and it distribute glad. The fourth appointed by his office was Poore prisoners to relieve with gratious ayd, And captives to redeeme with price of brass From Turkes and Sarazins, which them had stayd And though they faulty were, yet well he wayd, That God to us forgiveth every howre Much more than that why they in bands were layd And he, that harrowd hell with heavie stowre, The faulty soules from thence brought to his heavenly bowre. The fifth had charge sick persons to attend, And comfort those in point of death which lay For them most needeth comfort in the end, When sin, and hell, and death, doe most dismay The feeble soule departing hence away. All is but lost, that living we bestow, If not well ended at our dying day. O man ! have mind of that last bitter throw, For as the tree does fall, so lyes it ever low. The sixth had charge of them now being dead, In seemely sort their corses to engrave, And deck with dainty flowres their brydall bed, That to their heavenly spouse both sweet and brave They might appeare, when he their soules shall save. The wondrous workmanship of God's owne mould, Whose face he made all beastes to feare, and ga
 the night-rauen sate croaking hard by his window. Iesu haue mercy vpon me, quoth hee, what an ill-fauoured cry doe yonder carrion birds make, and there-withall he laid him downe in his bed, from whence he neuer rose againe. His Oast and Oastesse, that all this while noted his troubled mind, began to commune betwixt themselues thereof. And the man said, he knew not what were best to be done. By my consent quoth he the matter should passe, for I thinke it is not best to meddle on him. What man quoth she faint you now ? haue you done so many and do you shrinke at this ? Then shew-ing him a great deale of gold which Cole had left with her, she said, Would it not grieue a bodies heart to lose this ? hang the old churle, what should he doe liuing any longer ? he hath too much, and we haue too little tut husband, let the thing be done, and then this is our owne. Her wicked counsell was followed, and when they had listned at his chamber doore, they heard the man sound asleepe All is safe, quoth they, and downe into the kitchin they goe, their seruants being all in bed, and pulling out the yron pins, downe fell the bed, and the man dropt out into the boyling caldron. He being dead, they betwixt them cast his body into the riuer, his clothes they made away, and made all things as it should be but when hee came to the stable to conuey thence Coles horse, the stable doore being open, the horse had got loose, and with apart of the halter abo
DUFFY'S @F T @HE order has arrived, boys, and we are bound to Dublin, The order which we cannot but obey, And when we are leaving the jail in the morning, Our friends will be waiting to see us away. Our sentence is passed and no hope of escaping, So our cruel fate we must only abide, Adieu to old Ireland and each kind relation, We must cross the deep ocean so stormy and wide. My name is Patrick Duffy, I come from sweet Monaghan, That place I'll ne'er set my eyes on again, I'm transported for life in the prime of my vigour, Which makes my parents blush for shame. If they had foreseen the ill that was before me, I'm sure they'd have wished I'd never been born, To the grave I've brought their gray hairs with sorrow, To think their son from their arms he is torn. But what was the crime to me they imputed, Was it murder or base perjury at the bar ? Was it seeking the blood of my fellow creatures, That the hard hearted judge gave me this sentence for ? Oh, no, it was the father of her I loved dearly, Who robbery swore 'gainst his daughter and me, For fear a poor servant should gain such a treasure, I being poor and below her degree. Many@'s the stratagem he tried to entrap me, @@@@@@@@By leaving his money without lock or  to work out my ruin he did to my chamber, @@@@His gold and his bank notes in secret convey But finding me honest through every temptation, And knowing his daughter would die for my sake, He hired a spy to watch our correspondence, And laid out his plans on us vengeance to take. A bad designing woman she brought us together, While poor Mary's father was listening hard by, She made us consent to get married in private, And cross o'er to Scotland our fortunes to try. The keys of his drawers he put under my pillow, A note well marked to my purse he conveyed, And that very night we had set for eloping, The house was surrounded and I sent to goal. Then what was the use of my protestations, When no one was near me my innocence to prove, Against me the sentence of death was recorded, Tho' the only crime I committed was love. Adieu to yon, Mary,-you have been my ruin, Though you would have consented to be my wife, Your father has put the wide ocean between us, And made your poor Duffy a convict for life. Far better for me if my doom had consigned me, To yield up my unhappy life on a tree, Then that I should wear fetters like a beast of burthen, Till death kindly comes to set Duffy free But hard as my lot is I'll be far more happy, To drag the chains after me in heat and in cold. Than live with that hard load of guilt on my conscience, Like my base persecutor who my liberty sold. MY HOME IN  -@H. SUCH, Machine Printer, and Publisher, 177,  With its fields, where I laboured, so green, Where the 'possum and the 'coon and the juicy wild duck, And the 'bacco so prime I have seen There I've fished from the banks of the Masella creek, And oft in the shades of the night, Have I watched with @my gun near the Old Salt Lick, For the game as it came to my sight. CHO@RUS. There is my own cabin home, There is my sister and brother, There is my wife@-@joy of my life, My child, and the grave of my mother. That hut, my dear home-@@@my log cabin home, With the bench that I stood at the door, Where weary at night from my work I would come, And there rest ere I stepp'd on its floor. The calabash vine that then clung to its walls, Oh ! 'tis dear in my memory still to me, And my master who lives in his own handsome halls, Not so happy as then I could be. But that cabin is far, far away from me now, I am far from the scenes that I love, Far away from that wife, who once heard me vow That for ever I faithful would prove. My friends are still there, and still there is my child, And still there all in life I must crave, Still there is that mound, with its flowers so wild, That covers my old mother's grave.e. 525. 
 dwells in lowly shed, and mean attire, A matron old, whom we School-mistress name Who boasts unruly brats with birch to tame They grieven sore, in piteous durance pent, Awed by the power of this relentless dame And oft-times, on vagaries idly bent, For unkempt hair, or task unconned, are sorely shent. And all in sight doth rise a birchen tree, Which Learning near her little dome did stow Whilom a twig of small regard to see, Though now so wide its waving branches flow, And work the simple vassals mickle woe For not a wind might curl the leaves that blew, But their limbs shuddered, and their pulse beat low. And as they looked they found their horror grew, And shaped it into rods, and tingled at the view. So have I seen who has not may conceive A lifeless phantom near a garden placed So doth it wanton birds of peace bereave, Of sport, of song, of pleasure, of repast They start, they stare, they wheel, they look aghast Sad servitude ! such comfortless annoy May no bold Briton's riper age e'er taste ! Ne superstition clog his dance of joy, Ne vision empty, vain, his native bliss destroy. Near to this dome is found a patch so green, On which the tribe their gambols do display And at the door imprisoning board is seen, Lest weakly wights of smaller size should stray Eager, perdie, to bask in sunny day. The noises intermixed, which thence resound, Do Learning's little tenement betra
THE SONG OF THE  fingers weary and worn, @@With eyelids heavy and red, A woman sat in unwomanly rags, Plying@ her needle and thread. Stitch, stitch, stitch, In poverty, hunger, and dirt, And still with a voice of dolorous pitch, She sang the song of the Shirt. Work, work, work, While the cock is crowing aloof, And work, work, work, Till the stars shine through the roof O it is better to be a slave, Along with the turban'd Turk, Where woman has never a soul to save. If this is Christian work. Work, work, work, Till the eyes are heavy and dim, Work, work, work, Till the brain begins to swim. Seam, gusset, and band, Band, gusset, and  over the buttons I fall asleep, And sew them on in a dream. O men with sisters dear, O men with brothers and wives, It is no better than wearing out, Some human creatures' lives. Stitch, stitch, stitch, In poverty, hunger, and dirt, Sewing at once with a double thread, A shroud as well as a shirt. But why do I talk of death, That phantom of grizzly bone, I hardly fear his terrible shape, It seems so like my own It seems so like my own, Because of the fasts I keep, O God ! that bread should be so dear, And flesh and blood so cheap. Work work, work, My labour never flags, And what are its wages ? -@a bed of straw, A crust of bread, and@-@rags.@-That shattered ro@of and naked floor, A table@-@a broken chair, And the wall so blank, my shadow I thank, For sometimes falling there. With fingers heavy and worn, With eyelids heavy and red, A woman sat in unwomanly rags, Plying her needle and thread. Stitch, stitch, stitch, In poverty, hunger, and dirt, Would that its tones could reach the rich She sang the Song of the Shirt. Young William OF THE London -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and Publisher, 177, Union-street,  lovely morning as I was walking,@@@ In the merry month of May, Alone a smart young pair were talking, And I did hear what they did say The one appeared a lovely maiden, Seemingly in grief and pain, The other was a gay young soldier, A sergeant in the waggon train. Said this young soldier, I must leave you, The royal orders I must obey, I ne'er intended to deceive you, @@@@So dearest Nancy shun dismay I'm going to cross the raging ocean, And if famed laurels I should gain, I may return with high promotion, And bid farewell to the waggon train. Suppose your parents are offended, And I should in the battle fall, Then when your soldier's life is ended, Alas ! no friend you'll have at all. Besides, if you are such a ranger, You'll have to cross the raging main, So be a stranger to each danger, Say farewell to the waggon train. Young man you know my situation, Do not leave me here behind, I'll bid adieu to each relation, Be a soldier true and kind@@ If sick, or in sorrow, I will follow, @@@To soothe your care or drown your pain,@@@ And in the battle, hear the rattle @@@Of your royal waggon train. @@@Since you seem so much undaunted,@@@@ Nancy, I'll ne'er bid a@dieu, I@@@@'ll ask the favour, if 'tis granted,ed, Before I go I'll marry you.@@ I'll guard you my ranger, through every danger, And from the foe in France and Spain, So God protect young faithful Nancy, And William of the waggon trai
 said his wife wee heare that Cole of Reading is murdred I pray you is it true ? I, said Sutton, it is true, that vile villaine his Oast murdered him, in whose house the man had spent many a pound. But did they make pies of him, said his wife No, no, quoth her husband he was scalded to death in a boyling caldron, and afterward throwne into a running riuer that is hard by. But good husband, how was it knowne ? By his horse, quoth hee. What, did hee tell his master was murdered ? could the horse speake English ? Jesus what a foolish woman are you, quoth he, to aske such a ques-tion ? But to end this, you are all heartily welcome, good neighbours, and I am sorry you had no better cheere. So with thanks the women departed. Thus haue yee heard the diuers tales that will be spred abroad of an euil deed. How Duke Robert deceiued his keepers, and got from them how he met faire Margaret, and in carrying her away was taken, for the which he had his eyes put out. Chap. 13. DUKE Robert, hauing, as you heard, obtained the loue of faire Margaret, did now cast in his mind, how hee might delude his Keepers, and carry her quite away. In the end he being absolutely resolued what to doe, sent this letter vnto her, wherein he requested, that she would be readie to meet him in the Forrest, betwixt Cardiffe and Glocester. The young Lady hauing secretly receiued his me
 where she was stripped, and in stead of her smocke of soft silke had a smocke of rough haire put vpon her. Then came one with a paire of sheares, and cut off@ her golden-@coloured lockes, and with dust and ashes all bestrewed her head and face. Which being done, she was brought againe into the peoples sight bare foot and bare leg'd, to whom she said Now farewell the world, farewell the pleasures of this life, farewell my Lord the King, and to the Dukes sweet loue farewell, now shall my eyes weepe for my former transgressions, and no more shall my tongue talke of vanity farewell my good Master and Dame, and farewell all good people. With which words she was taken away, and neuer after seene abroad. When Duke Robert heard thereof, he desired that at his death, his body might be buried in Glocester in that Towne, quoth he, where first my cleare eyes beheld the heauenly beauty of my Loue, and where for my sake shee forsooke the world which was performed accordingly. The King also at his death requested to be buried at Reading, for the great loue hee bare to that place, among those Clothiers, who liuing were his hearts com-fort. Gray dying wondrous wealthy, gaue land to the Monasterie whereinto Margaret was taken. William Fitzallen also dyed a most rich man, hauing builded many houses for the poore, whose sonne Henry after was the first Maior that was euer in London. Sutton of Salisbury did also at his death much good, and gaue an hundred li. to be yeerely lent to poore @177 O
 when shee had bought what she would, she told her neighbour she had great need of a maid-seruant or twaine therefore, qd. she, good neighbour goe with me, and let me haue your opinion. With a good will, said her neighbour, and together they went, and looking and viewing the maidens ouer, she tooke speciall notice of Margaret. Beleeue me, quoth shee, there stands a very proper maiden, and one of a modest and comely countenance. Verily, said her neighbour, so she is, as euer I looked vpon. The maiden seeing them to view her so well, was so abashed, that a scarlet colour overspred her lilly cheekes, which the woman perceiuing, came vnto her, and asked if she were willing to serue. The maid with a low cur-tesie, and a most gentle speech, answered, it was the onely cause of her comming. Can you spinne or card, said good-@wife Gray ? Truly Dame, said she, though my cunning therein be but small, my good will to learne is great, and I trust, my diligence shall content you. What wages will you take, quoth good-wife Gray ? I will referre that, said Margaret, to your conscience and courtesie, desiring no more then what I shall de-serue. Then asking what Country-woman she was, the maiden wept, saying Ah good Dame, I was vntimely borne in Shropshire, of poore parents, and yet not so needy as vnfortunate, but death hauing ended their sorrowes, hath left me to the cruelty of these enuious times, to finish my Parents Tragedy with my troubles. What ? maiden qd. her dame, haue you a care to d
 of Slave-compensation Claims, printed by the British House of Commons in 1838, I made a few notes that may not be uninterest-ing. In 1834 slavery was abolished in all the possessions of Great Brit-ain. Parliament voted a gross sum, which was distributed among owners of slaves as compensation for setting their blacks free. The negroes were divided into classes according to the kind of labor for which they were fitted, and a value was set upon each class by valuers, sworn faithfully to perform their duties. Thus, in Antigua, head-people were valued at £144 9s. 81-2 d. trades-people, £112 inferior trades-people, £59 field-hands, £94 inferior field-hands, £31 domestics, £82. The valuations differed in different islands for instance, head-people in Jamaica were valued at £78 in St. Kitt's, £80 in Grenada, £120 and so on. Children under six years of age on August 1,@1834 the day set for the emancipation of the slaves , were valued at £13 17s. 4d. aged, deceased, or otherwise non-effective adults, at £10 18s. 51-4 d. By arbi-tration the rates of compensation were determined, and, like the valu-ations, differed in different islands@-@head-people being rated as fol-lows In Jamaica, £31 in Antigua, £34 in St. Kitt's, £80 in Gre-nada, £41 the compensation for other slaves being in proportion. The commissioners appointed to carry out the act of Parliament took nearly four years to complete their labors. From their final report it appears that the total sum expended under the act was £18,669,401 10s. 7d., leaving contested unpaid claims to the amount of £1,330,-598 9s. 5d. The total expense of the commission was £61,147 13s. 2d. that is to say, a little over one-third of one per cent. of the money dis-bursed by the commissioners. The Antiguans, to their credit be it said, were the first to carry out the provisions of the act of Parliament. As I studied the columns of figures of this grand book-account, the record of the noblest financial transaction ever negotiated by the men of any nation, I could not help indulging a feeling of pride that I was a kinsman of the nation of shopkeepers. Just here let me remind my countrymen of the fact that will in this connection keep recurring to my mind, namely In 1860 the value of the property in slaves in t
 SPEECH OF ULYSSES. TIME hath, my lord, a wallet at his back, Wherein he puts alms for oblivion, A great-sized monster of ingratitudes Those scraps are good deeds past which are devoured As fast as they are made, forgot as soon As done perseverance, dear my lord, Keeps honour bright to have done is to hang Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail In monumental mockery. Take the instant way For honour travels in a strait so narrow, Where one but goes abreast keep then the path For emulation hath a thousand sons, That one by one pursue if you give way, Or hedge aside from the direct forthright, Like to an entered tide, they all rush by, And leave you hindmost -Or, like a gallant horse fallen in first rank, Lie there for pavement to the abject rear, O'er-run and trampled on then what they do in present, Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours For time is like a fashionable host, That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand And with his arms outstretched as he would fly, Grasps-in the comer Welcome ever smiles, And Farewell goes out sighing. O let not virtue seek Remuneration for the thing it was For beauty, wit, High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service, Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all To envious and calumniating tim
 they all answered, Yea, for quoth they, it will not he passing forty shillings a piece, and that we shall re-couer in our crackt money. Being thus agreed, the feast was prepared. Tom Doue, quoth they, we will commit the prouiding of musicke to thee and I, said Cole, will inuite diuers of our Merchants and their wiues to the same. That is well remembred, said Gray. Upon this they called to the Oast and Oastesse, shewing their determination, who most willingly said, all things should be made ready, but I would haue two dayes liberty, said the goodwife, to prepare my house and other things. Con-tent, said the Clothiers, in the meane space we will bid our guests, and dispatch our other affaires. But Simon of Southampton charged his Oastesse, that in any case she should not forget to make good store of pottage. It shall be done, quoth she. It is to be remembred, that while this preparation was in hand, that Cutb. of Kendall had not forgot his kindnes to his Oastesse of Bosomes Inne. Therefore finding time conuenient when her husband was ouersee-ing his hay@-makers, hee greeted her in this sort, Sweet Oastesse, though I were the last time I was in towne, ouer-bold with you, yet I hope it was not so offensiue to you, as you made shew for. Bold, my Cutbert ? quoth she, thou hast vowed thy selfe my seruant and so being, you are not to bee blamed for doing what I wild you. By my honesty, I could not chuse but smile to my selfe, so soone as I was out of their sight, t@o thinke h
 III. 1746-1757 . CCXXXIII. ODE WRITTEN IN THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 1746. HOW sleep the brave who sink to rest, By all their country's wishes blest ! When Spring with dewy fingers cold, Returns to deck their hallowed mould, She there shall dress a sweeter sod Than Fancy's feet have ever trod. By fairy hands their knell is rung, By forms unseen their dirge is sung There Honour comes, a pilgrim grey, To bless the turf that wraps their clay, And Freedom shall awhile repair, To dwell a weeping hermit there ! -Collins. CCXXXIV. FROM THE CASTLE OF INDOLENCE. O MORTAL man, who livest here by toil, Do not complain of this thy hard estate That like an emmet thou must ever moil. Is a sad sentence of an ancient date And, certes, there is for it reason great For though sometimes it makes thee weep and wail, And curse thy star, and early drudge and late, Withouten that would come a heavier bale. Loose life, unruly passions, and diseases  imitation of The Faery Queene. These are the first six stanzas. There are seventy-seven stanzas in canto i. and seventy-nine in canto i
 he came in to the halle, to gete hym some mete, and he halted as lytell as he coude, and kept it secretly, that almoost no man coude perceyue it, and suffred moore payne a thousande tymes than it semeth by hym. Shortly after this, came home the knyght that had hurte Robert, and began to recounte to them-perour how the knyght with the whyte horse had out-ryden hym, and how he had hurte hym sore ayenst his wyll, and sayd to the emperour I beseche you, my lorde emperour, here what I shall tell you, and in what maner ye shall knowe who is he that hath holpen you itis bestye make a proclamacyon and publyshe thrughe-out your empyre, and yf there be ony knyght in whyte harnays and a whyte horse that he be brought to your presence, and that he brynge with hym the spere-heed where withall he was hurte in his thyghe, shewynge the wounde, and that ye gyve hym youre doughter to wyfe, and halfe youre empyre with her. Themperour this herynge, was of his counseyll very gladde, and incontynentall haste proclamedandpublysshed thrughe-out all the empyre, and thought that the knyght had gyuen hym good counseyll. How the Senesschall thruste a spere-heed in to his thyghe, wenynge to haue begyled the Emperour, and to haue wonne his doughter therby. IT befell in shorte tyme after, that the senesshall had knowlege and understandynge of the emperour's pro-clamation, and how he myghte wynne themperour'
 mock the misery of a stinted meal ! Homely, not wholesome, plain, not plenteous, such As you who praise would never deign to touch. Ye gentle souls, who dream of rural ease, Whom the smooth stream and smoother sonnet please Go ! if the peaceful cot your praises share, Go, look within, and ask if peace be there If peace be his, that drooping weary sire Or theirs, that offspring round their feeble fire Or hers, that matron pale, whose trembling hand Turns on the wretched hearth th' expiring brand ! Nor yet can time itself obtain for these Life's latest comforts, due respect and ease For yonder see that hoary swain, whose age Can with no cares except its own engage Who, propped on that rude staff, looks up to see The bare arms broken from the withering tree, On which, a boy, he climbed the loftiest bough, Then his first joy, but his sad emblem now. 1783. -@Crabbe's Village. CCLXIV. ACTION, THE LIFE OF NATURE. BY ceaseless action all that is subsists. Constant rotation of the unwearied wheel, That Nature rides upon, maintains her health. Her beaut@y, her fertility. She dreads An instant's pause, and lives but while she moves. Its own revolvency upholds the world. Winds from all quarters agitate the air, And fit the limped element for use, Else noxious oceans, rivers, lakes and streams, All feel the freshening impulse, and are cleansed By restless undulation e'en the oak Thrives by the rude concussion of the storm
 WORK WITHOUT HOPE. ALL Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair@-The bees are stirring@-@birds are on the wing@-And Winter, slumbering in the open air, Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring ! And I, the while, the sole unbusy thing, Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing. Yet well I ken the banks where amaranths blow, Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow. Bloom, O ye amaranths ! bloom for whom ye may, For me ye bloom not@! Glide, rich streams, away ! With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul ? Work without hope draws nectar in a sieve, And hope without an object cannot live. -@Coleridge. CCCLXIV. SCORN NOT THE SONNET. SCORN not the Sonnet, Critic you have frowned, Mindless of its just honours with this key Shakespeare unlocked his heart the melody Of this small lute gave ease to Petrarch's wound A thousand times this pipe did Tasso sound With it Camoens soothed an exile's grief The Sonnet glittered a gay myrtle leaf Amid the cypress with which Dante crowned His visionary brow a glow-worm lamp, It cheered mild Spenser, called from Faery-land To struggle through dark ways and, when a damp Fell round the path of Milton, in his hand The Thing became a trumpet, whence he blew Soul-animating strains,@-@alas, too few ! -@Wordswort
 Venice did not fall below her birth, Venice, the eldest child of Liberty. She was a Maiden City, bright and free No guile seduced, no force could violate And when she took unto herself a mate, She must espouse the everlasting Sea. And what if she had seen those glories fade, Those titles vanish, and that strength decay,@-Yet shall some tribute of regret be paid When her long life hath reached its final day Men are we, and must grieve when even the shade Of that which once was great is passed away. -Wordsworth. CCXCIII. EVENING. IT is a beauteous evening, calm and free † The holy time is quiet as a nun Breathless with adoration the broad sun Is sinking down to its tranquillity The gentleness of heaven is on the Sea Listen ! the mighty Being is awake, And doth with His eternal motion make A sound like thunder everlastingly. Dear child ! dear girl ! that walkest with me here, If thou appear untouched by solemn thought, Thy nature is not therefore less divine Thou liest ' in Abraham's bosom ' all the year And worshippest at the temple's inner shrine, God being with thee when we know it not.  See Childe Harold, iv. † Composed on the beach near Calais in the autumn of 1802. In the edition of 1841, the first line is@-' A fairer face of evening cannot be '. 
 hell, earth, chaos, all the argument Held me awhile misdoubting his intent, That he would ruin for I saw him strong The sacred truths to fable and old song So Samson groped the temple's posts in spite, The world o'erwhelming to revenge his sight. Yet as I read, soon growing less severe, I liked his project, the success did fear Through that wide field how he his way should find, O'er which lame faith leads understanding blind Lest he'd perplex the things he would explain, And what was easy he should render vain. Or, if a work so infinite he spanned, Jealous I was that some less skilful hand Such as disquiet always what is well, And by ill imitating would excel, Might hence presume the whole creation's day To change in scenes, and show it in a play. Pardon me, mighty poet, nor despise My causeless yet not impious surmise. But I am now convinced, and none will dare Within thy labours to pretend a share. Thou hast not missed one thought that could be fit, And all that was improper dost omit So that no room is here for writers left, But to detect their ignorance or theft. That majesty which through thy work doth reign Draws the devout, deterring the profane And things divine thou treat'st of in such state As them preserves, and thee, inviolate. At once delight and horror on us seize, Thou sing'st with so much gravity and ease, And above human flight dost soar aloft, With plume so strong, so equal, and so sof
 you must kepe you dombe without speche, and lye among dogges, for thus hath God thys nyght com-maunded me by a aungell to gyue you this for your penaunce, and ye may offende no man the whyle your penaunce be a doynge and this penaunce ye must doo for your synnes in maner and forme as I haue tolde you, tyll suche tyme as it shall please your Lorde to sende you worde that your synnes be forgyuen. Robert beynge mery and glad, thankynge our Lorde that he was assoyled of his synnes, and had therfore so lyght penaunce as hym thought that it was. Nowe taketh Robert leve of the heremyte, and goth to do his sharpe penaunce, whiche he helde but lyghte, remem-brynge his grete abhomynable stynkynge synnes that he hath done all the dayes of his lyfe this was a fayre myracle, for he that was so vycyous and so furyous a rebell, and proude a synner, is now so full of uertues and fayre condycyons and tame as a lambe. How Robert the Deuyll toke leve of the heremyte, and went agayne to Rome to do his penaunce that the heremyte had gyuen hym. ROBERT had taken leue of the heremyte, and is gone towarde Rome, there for to do his penaunce. And whan he came into the cyte he began to lepe and renne about the stretes, makynge hymselfe as he had ben a fole, and the chyldren in the stretes se Robert renne in this wyse, and they after hym shoutynge and cryenge and castynge with myre and derte, and all suche fyl
 Socrates perceive, that the dragon which did destroy the citie and countrey adioyning, with his noisome breath, and contagious influence, did lurke in the dennes between the mountaines and thus may all things that are done in cities or armies be discovered by the ene-mies. Againe, in such wise may bodies be framed, that venemous and infectious influences may be brought whither a man will in this did Aristotle instruct Alex-ander through which instruction the poyson of a basiliske, being lift up upon the wall of a citie, the poison was convayd into the citie, to the destruction thereof also perspects may be made to deceive the sight, as to make a man beleeve that hee seeth great store of riches, when that there is not any. But it ap-pertaineth to a higher power of figuration, that beams should be brought and assembled by divers flexions and reflexions in any distance that we will, to burne any thing that is opposite unto it, as it is witnessed by those perspects or glasses that burne before and behinde but the greatest and chiefest of all figurations andthings figured, is to describe the heavenly bodies, according to their length and breadth in a corporall figure, wherein they may corporally move with a daily motion. These things are worth a kingdom to a wise man. These may suffise, my royall lord, to shew what art can doe and these, with many things more, as strange, I am able by art to performe. Then take no thought for winning this towne, for by my art you shall ere many dayes be past have your desir
 THE WORLD'S A BUBBLE. THE world's a bubble, and the Life of Man Less than a span In his conception wretched, from the womb So to the tomb Curst from his cradle, and brought up to years With cares and fears. Who then to frail mortality shall trust But limns on water, or but writes on dust. Yet whilst with sorrow here we live opprest, What life is best ? Courts are but only superficial schools To dandle fools The rural parts are turned into a den Of savage men And where's a city from foul vice so free, But may be termed the worst of all the three ? Domestic cares afflict the husband's bed, Or pains his head Those that live single take it for a curse, Or do things worse Some would have children those that have them, moan Or wish them gone What is it, then, to have, or have no wife, But single thraldom, or a double strife ? Our own affections still at home to please Is a disease To cross the seas to any foreign soil, Peril and toil Wars with their noise affright us when they cease, We are worse in peace -What then remains, but that we still should cry For being born, or, being born, to die ? -@Bacon. Imitated from the Greek Anthology see J. A. Symonds' Studies of the Greek Poet
 hym the keye that Robert had delyuered hym, and told the duke how he was gone to Rome. Than the duke gaue all the poor people theyr goodes agen that they lost befor as ferre as it coude be founde in the hous. @We wyll sease of the Duke and the Abbott, and speke of Robert whiche goth to Rome warde alone, with grete devocyon. How Robert came to Rome for remyssyon of his synnes. ROBERT went so longe ouer hylles and dales alone, tyll at last with grete payne and pouerte he came to Rome in to the cyte, upon a shere Thursdaye at nyght, and on the Fry@daye after, the pope hymselfe sayd the deuyne seruyce, as the custom was in saynt Peter's chyrche and Robert presed fast to have comen to the pope, but the pope's seruantes se that Robert presed so sore to come to the pope, they smote hym, and bad hym goo back but the more they smote hym, the more he presed and thronge to gette nygh the pope, and so at last he gate to hym, and fell doune on his knees at the feet of the pope, cryenge with a loud voyce, saynge thus O ! holy fader, haue mercy on me ! and thus laye Robert cryenge longe, whyle the people that were by the pope were angry that Robert made suche a noyse, and wolde haue dryuen hym thens, but the pope seynge Robert's grete desyre, had pyte upon hym, sayd to the people, Late hym alone, for in all that I can se he hath grete deuocy@on. Whereforethepope commaund
 ON CHILLON. ETERNAL Spirit of the chainless Mind ! Brightest in dungeons, Liberty ! thou art, For there thy habitation is the heart@-The heart which love of thee alone can bind And when thy sons to fetters are consigned, To fetters, and the damp vault's dayless gloom, Their country conquers with their martyrdom, And Freedom's fame finds wings on every wind. Chillon ! thy prison is a holy place, And thy sad floor an altar, for 'twas trod, Until his very steps have left a trace Worn, as if thy cold pavement were a sod, By Bonnivard ! May none those marks efface ! For they appeal from tyranny to God. -@Byron. CCCXXX. TO WORDSWORTH. POET of Nature, thou hast wept to know That things depart which never may return ! Childhood and youth, friendship and love's first glow Have fled like sweet dreams, leaving thee to mourn. These common woes I feel. One loss is mine Which thou, too, feelest yet I alone deplore. Thou wert as a lone star, whose light did shine On some frail bark in winter's midnight roar Thou hast, like to a rock-built refuge, stood Above the blind and battling multitude. In honoured poverty thy voice did weave Songs consecrate to truth and liberty,@-Deserting these, thou leavest me to grieve, Thus having been, that thou shouldst cease to be. -@Shelley. Cf. Milton's sonnet On the Late Massacre in Piedmon
 and other Attendants.  Solinus, to procure my fall@ And@ by the doom of death@ end woes and all. Duke.@Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more I am not partial@ to infringe our laws The enmity and discord@ which of late Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen, Who@ wanting guilders to redeem their lives@ Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods, Excludes all pity from our threatening looks. For, since the mortal and intestine jars 'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us, It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns Nay, more, If any@ born at Ephesus@ be seen At any Syracusian marts and fair@s Again@ if any Syracusian born@ Come to the bay of Ephesus, he dies, His goods confiscate to the duke's dispose, Unless a thousand marks be levied, To quit the penalty@ and to ransom@ him. Thy substance, valued at the highest rate, Cannot amount unto a hundred marks Therefore@ by law thou art condemn'd to die. @AEge.@Yet this my comfort when your words are done, My woes end likewise with the evening sun. Duke.Well, Syracusian, say@ in brief@ the cause Why thou departed'st from thy native home And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus, AE@ge.@A heavier task could not have been imposed@ Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable Yet, that the world may witne@ss that my end Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence, I'll utter what my sorrows give@ me leave. In Syracusa was I born, and wed Unto a woman, happy but for me, And by me@@@@, had not our hap been bad. With her I lived in joy our wealth increased@ By prosperous voyages I often made To Epidamnum@ till my factor's death And the@ great care of goods at random left@ Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse From whom my absence was not six months old@ Before herself, almost at fainting@ under The pleasing punishment that women bear, Had made provision for her following m@e And soon@ and safe@ arrived where I was. There had she not been long@ but she became A joyful mother of two goodly sons And, which was strange, the one so like the other@ As could not be distinguish'd but by names. That very hour, and in the self-same inn, A @@@@@meaner woman was delivered Of such a burden, male twins, both alike Those,--for their parents were exceeding poor,-~I bought@ and brought up to attend my sons. My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys, Made daily motions for our home return Unwilling I agreed alas! too soon, We came aboard. A league from Epidamnum had we sail'@d, Before the always wind-obeying deep Gave any tragic instance of our harm But longer did we not retain much hope For what obscured light the heavens did grant Did but convey unto our fearful minds A doubtful warrant of immediate death Whic@h though myself would gladly have embraced, Yet the incessant weepings of my wife, Weeping before for what she saw must co@me, And piteous plainings of the pretty babes, That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear, Forced me to seek delays for them and me. And this it was, for other means was none@ The sailors sought for safety by our boat, And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us My wife, more careful for the latter-born, Had fasten'd him unto a small spare mast, Such as seafaring men provide for storms To him one of the other twins was bound, Whilst I had been like heedful of the other@ The children thus disposed, my wife and I, Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd, Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast And floating straight, obedient to the stream, W@as carried towards Corinth, as we thought. At length the sun, gazing upon the earth, Dispersed those vapo@rs that offended us And, by the benefit of his wished light, The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered Two ships from far making amain to us, Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this But ere they came,--O, let me say no more! Gather the sequel by that went before. Duke.@Nay, forward, old man@ do not break off so For we may pity, though not pardon thee. AEge.O, had the gods done so, I had not now Worthily term'd them merciless to us! For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues, We were encounter'd by a mighty rock Which being violently borne upon, Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst@ So that, in this unjust divorce of us, Fortune had left to both of us alike What to delight in, what to sorrow for. Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened With lesser weight@ but not with lesser woe, Was carried with more speed before the wind And in our sight they three were taken up By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought. At length, another ship had seized on us@ And, knowing whom it was their hap to save, Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck'd guests And would have reft the fishers of their prey, Had not their bark been very slow of sail@ And therefore homeward did they bend their course. Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd, To tell sad stories of my own mishaps. Duke.@And, for the sake of them thou sorrowest for, Do me the favo@r to dilate at full What hath befall'n of the@m and thee@ till now. AEge.My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care, At eighteen years became inquisitive After his brother and importuned me@ That his attendant--so@ his case was like, Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name-~Might bear him company in the quest of him Whom whilst I labo@r'd of a love to see, I hazarded the loss of whom I loved. Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece, Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia, And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought@ Or that@ or any place that harbo@rs men. But here@ must end the story of my life And happy were I in my timely death, Could all my travels warrant me they live. Duke.@Hapless AEgeon, whom the fates have mark'd To bear the extremity of dire mishap! Now, trust me, were it not against our laws, Against my crown, my oath, my dignity, Which princes, would they, may not disannul, My soul should sue as advocate for thee. But, though thou art adjudged to the death@ And passed sentence may not be recall'@d@ But to our hono@r's great disparagement, Yet I will @@favo@r thee in what I can. Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day@ To seek thy life by beneficial help Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum, And live if no@, then thou art doom'd to die @Gaoler, take him to thy custody. Gaol.@I will, my lord. AEge.Hopele@ss and helpless doth AEgeon wend, But to procrastinate his lifeless end.  Syracuse, and @Therefore@ give out@ you are of Epidamnum, Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. This very day@ a Syracusian merchant Is apprehended for arrival here And@ not being able to buy out his life@ According to the statute of the town, Dies ere the weary sun set in the west. There is your money that I had to keep. Ant. S.Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host, And stay there, Dromio, till I co@me to thee. Within this hour it will be dinner-time Till that, I'll view the manners of the town, Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings, And then return@ and sleep within mine inn, For with long travel I am stiff and weary. Get thee away. Dro. S.@Many a man would take you at your word, And go indeed, having so good a @A trusty villain, sir, that very oft, When I am dull with care and melancholy, Lightens my humo@r with his merry jests. What, will you walk with me about the town, And then go to my inn@ and dine with me First Mer.@I am invited, sir, to certain merchants, Of whom I hope to make much benefit I crave your pardon. Soon@ at five o'clock, Please you, I'@l meet with you upon the mart@ And afterward@ consort you till bed-time My present business calls me from you now. Ant. S.@Farewell till then I will go lose myself@ And wander up and down@ to view the city. Mer.@Sir, I commend you to your own content.  that commends me to mine own content@ Commends me to the thing I cannot get. I to the world am like a drop of water@ That in the ocean seeks another drop, Who, falling there to find his fellow forth, Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself So I, to find a mother@ and a brother, In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself. Enter  co@mes the almanac@ of my true date. What now@ how chance@ thou art return'd so soon@ Dro. E.@Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit, The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell@ My mistress made it one upon my cheek She is so hot@ because the meat is cold The meat is cold@ because you co@me not home You co@me not home@ because you have no stomach You have no stomac@h having broke your fast But we@ that know what 'tis to fast and pray@ Are penitent for your default to-day. Ant. S.Stop in your wind, sir tell me this, I pray Where have you left the money that I gave youou Dro. E.O,--six@pence, that I had o' Wednesday last@ To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper @The saddler had it, sir@ I kept it not. Ant. S.I am not in a sportive humo@r now Tell me, and dally not, where is the money@ We being stra@ngers here, how darest thou trust So great a charge from thine own custody@ Dro. @E.@I pray you, jest, sir, as you sit at dinner I from my mistress co@me to you in post If I return, I shall be post indeed, For she will score your fault upon my pate. Methinks@ your maw, like mine, should be your clock@ And strike you home without a messenger.  Dromio, co@me, these jests are out of season Reserve them till a merrier hour than this. Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee@ Dro. E.@To me, sir@ why, you gave no gold to me. Ant. S.Co@me on, sir knave, have done your foolishne@ss And tell me@ how thou hast disposed thy charge, Dro. E.@My charge was but to fetch you from the mart Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner My mistre@ss and her sister@ stays for you. Ant. S.Now, as I am a Christian, answer me@ In what safe place you have bestow'd my money, Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours@ That stands on tricks when I am undisposed Where is the thousand marks thou had@st of me@ Dro. @E.@I have some marks of yours upon my pate, Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders, But not a thousand marks between you both. If I should pay your worship those again, Perchance@ you will not bear them patiently. Ant.  marks@ what mistress, slave, hast thou Dro. @E.@Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix She that doth fast@ till you co@me home to dinner@ And prays@ that you will hie you home to dinner. Ant. S.What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face, Being forbid@ There, take you that, sir knave. Dro. @E.@What mean you, sir@ for God's sake, hold your hands! Nay, an you will not, sir, I'll take my heels. @Upon my life, by some device or other@ The villain is o'er-raught of all my money. They say@ this town is full of cozenage, As, nimble jugglers@ that deceive the eye, Dark-working sorcerers@ that change the mind, Soul-killing witches@ that deform the body, Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks, And many such-like liberties of sin If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner. I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave I greatly fear@ my money is not safe. @Neither my husband@ nor the slave return'd, That in such haste I sent to seek his master! Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock. Luc.@Perhaps@ some merchant hath invited him@ And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner. Good sister, let us dine@ and never fret A man is master of his liberty Time is their master, and, when they see time, They'll go@ or come if so, be patient, sister. Adr.Why should their liberty than ours be more@ Luc.@Because their business still lies out o' door. Adr.Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill. Luc.@O, know@ he is the bridle of your will. Adr.There's none@ but asses@ will be bridled so. Luc.@Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe. There's nothing@ situate under heaven's eye@ But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls@ Are their males' subjects and at their controls Men, more divine, the masters of all these, Lords of the wide world@ and wild watery seas, Indued with intellectual sense and souls, Of more pre-eminence than fish and fowls, Are masters to their females, and their lords Then let your will attend on their accords. Adr.@This servitude makes you to keep unwed. Luc.@Not this, but troubles of@ the marriage@bed. Adr.But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway. @Luc.@Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey. Adr.How if your husband start some other where@ Luc.@Till he co@me home again, I would forbear. Adr.@Patience@ unmov@ed! no marvel though she pause They can be meek@ that have no other cause. A wretched soul, bruised with adversity, We bid be quiet@ when we hear it cry But were we burden'd with like weight of pain, As much@ or more@ we should ourselves complain So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee, With urging helpless patience would@st relieve me But, if thou live to see like right bereft, This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left. Luc.@Well, I will marry one day, but to try. Here co@mes your man@ now is your husband nigh.  is your tardy master now at hand@ Dro. E.@Nay, he@'s at two hands with me, and that my two ears can witness. Adr.Say, didst thou speak with him@ know'st thou his mind@ Dro. E.@Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it. Luc.@Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning Dro. E.@Nay, he struck so plainly, I could too well feel his blows and withal so doubtfully@ that I could scarce understand them. Adr.@But say, I pr@ithee, is he coming home@ It seems@ he hath great care to please his wife. Dro. @@E.@Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad. Adr.Horn-mad, thou villain! @Dro. E.@I mean not cuckold-mad But, sure, he is stark mad. When I desired him to co@me home to dinner, He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold ''Tis dinner-time,' quoth I 'My gold!' quoth he 'Your meat doth burn,'  I 'My gold!' quoth  ' quoth I 'My gold!'  I gave thee,  I, 'is  that my errand, due unto my tongue, I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders For, in conclusion, he did beat me there. Adr.@Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home. Dro. E.@Go back again, and be new beaten home@ For God's sake, send some other messenger. Adr.Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across. Dro. E.And he will bless that cross with other beat@ing Between you I shall have a holy head. Adr.Hence, prating peasant! fetch thy master home. Dro. E.@Am I so round with you@ as you with me, That like a football you do spurn me thus@@ You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither If I last in this service, you must case me in leather.  how impatience lo@ureth in your face! Adr.His company must do his minions grace, Whilst I at home starve for a merry look. Hath homely age the alluring beauty took From my poor cheek@ then he hath wasted it Are my discourses dull@ barren my wi@t If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd, Unkindness blunts it@ more than marble hard@ Do their gay vestments his affections bait@ That's not my fault@ he's master of my state What ruins are in me@ that can be found, By him not ruin'd@ then is he the ground Of my defeatures. My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale@ And feeds from home poor I am but his stale. Luc.@Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence! Adr.Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense. I know his eye doth homage otherwhere Or else@ what lets it but he would be here Sister, you know@ he promised me a chain Would that alone, alone he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed! I see@ the jewel@ best enamelled@ Will lose his beauty yet th@@@e gold @bides still, That others touch, and often touching will Wear gold and@@@ no man that hath a na@me, B@y falsehood and corruption doth it shame. Since that my beauty cannot please his eye, I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die. @Luc.@How many fond fools serve mad  Ant. S.The gold@ I gave to Dromio@ is laid up Safe at the Centaur and the heedful slave Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out@ By computation@ and mine host's report. I could not speak with Dromio@ since at first I sent him from the mark. See, here he  How now, sir! is your merry humo@r alter'd@ As you love strokes, so jest with me again. You know no Centaur@ you received no gol@d Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner@ My house was at the Phoenix@ Wast thou mad, That thus so madly thou didst answer me@@ Dro. S.@What answer, sir@ when spake I such a word Ant. S.@Even now, even here, not half an @hour since. Dro. S.I did not see you since you sent me hence, Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me. Ant. S.Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt, And told'st me of a mistre@ss and a dinner For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeased. Dro. S.I am glad to see you in this merry vein What means this jest@ I pray you, master, tell me. Ant. S.Yea, dost thou jeer@ and flout me in the teeth@ Think'st thou@ I jest@ Hold, take thou th@at, and that.  sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest Upon what ba@rgain do you give it me @Ant. S.Because that I familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool@ and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love@ And make a common of my serious hours. When the sun shines@ let fool@ish gnats make sport, But creep in crannies@ when he hides his beams. If you will jest with me, know my aspect@ And fashion y@ou@r demeano@r to my looks, Or I will beat this method in your sconce. Dro. S.@Sconce@ call you it@ so you would leave batter@ing, I had rather have it a head an you use these blows long, I must get a sconce for my hea@d and insconce it too or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders. But, I pray, sir, why am I beatenen Ant. S.@Dost thou not know Dro. S.Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten. Ant. S.Shall I tell you whyhy Dro. S.@Ay, sir, and wherefore for@ they say@ every why hath a wherefore. Ant. S.Why, first,--for flouting me and then, where@fore,-~For urging it the second time to me. Dro. S.Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season, When@ in the why@ and the wherefore@ is neither rhyme nor reason @@Well, sir, I thank you. Ant. S.Thank me, sir! for what@@ Dro. S@.@Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing. Ant. S.I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something. But say, sir, is it dinner-timeme Dro. S.@No, sir I think@ the meat wants that I have. Ant. S.In good time, sir@ what's that ! Dro. @S.@Basting. Ant. S.@Well, sir, then 'twill be dry. Dro. S.If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it. Ant. S.Your reason@ Dro. S.Lest it make you choleric@ and purchase me another dry basting. Ant. S.Well, sir, learn to jest in good time there's a time for all things. Dro. @S.@I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric. Ant. S.@By what rule, sir@ Dro. @@S.@Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of father Time himself. Ant. S.Let's hear it. Dro. S.There's no time for a man to recover his hair@ that grows bald by nature. Ant. S.May he not do it by fine and recovery@@ Dro. S.@Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the lost hair of another man. Ant. S.Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement@ Dro. S.Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts and what he hath scanted men in hair@ he hath given them in wit. Ant. S.Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit. Dro. S@.@Not a man of those@ but he hath the wit to lose his hair. Ant. S.Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit. @Dro. S.@The plainer dealer, the sooner lost yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity. S.For what reason@ Dro. S.@For two and sound ones too. Ant. S.Nay, not sound, I pray you. Dro. S.@Sure ones, then. Ant. S.Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing. Dro. S.@Certain ones then. Ant. S.@Name them. @Dro. S.@The one, to save the money that he spends in trimming the other@ that at dinner they s@hould not drop in his porridge. Ant. S.@You would all this time have proved@ there is no time for all things. Dro. S.@Marry, and did, sir namely, no time to reco@ver hair lost by nature. Ant. S.But your reason was not substantial, why there is no time to recover. Dro. S.Thus I mend it Time himself is bald@ and therefore@ to the world's end@ will have bald followers. Ant. S.@I knew@ 'twould be a bald conclusion But, soft! who wafts us yonder@ Enter  ay, Antipholus, look strange@ and frown Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects@ I am not Adriana@ nor thy wife. The time was once@ when thou unurged would@st vow That never words were music to thine ear, That never object pleasing in thine eye, That never touch well welcome to thy hand, That never meat sweet-savo@r'd in thy taste, Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carved to thee. How co@mes it now, my husband, O@, how co@mes it, That thou art thus estranged from thy@self @@Thyself I call it, being strange to me, That, undividable, incorporate, A@m better than thy dear self's better part. Ah, do not tear away thyself from me! For know, my love, as easy mayest thou fall A drop of water in the breaking gul@f, And take unmingled thence that drop again, Without addition@ or diminishing, As take from me thyself@ and not me too. How dearly would it touch thee to the quick, Should@st thou but hear I were licentious@ And that this body, consecrate to thee, By ruffian lust should be contaminate@! Would@st thou not spit at me@ and spurn at me@ And hurl the name of husband in my fac@e And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow@ And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring@ And break it with a deep-divorcing vow@@ I know thou canst and therefore@ see@ thou do it. I am possess'@d with an adulterate blot My blood is mingled with the crime of lust For@ if we too be one@ and thou play false, I do digest the poison of thy flesh, Being strumpeted by thy contagion. Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed I live @@unstain'd, thou undishono@red. Ant. S.Plead you to me, fair dame@ I know you not In Ephesus I am but two hours old, As strange unto your town@ as to your talk Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd, Want wit in all one word to understand. Luc.@Fie, brother! how the world is changed with you! When were you wont to use my sister thus @@She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner. S.By Dromio Dro.  Adr.By thee and this thou didst return from him, That he did buffet thee, and, in his blows, Denied my house for his, me for his wife. Ant. S.Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman@ What is the course and drift of your compact @Dro.  sir@ I never saw her till this time. Ant. S.@Villain, thou liest for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart. @Dro. S.I never spake with her in all my life. Ant. S.How can she thus then call us by our names@ Unless it be by inspiration. Adr.@How ill agrees it with your gravity@ To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave, Abetting him to thwart me in my mood@! Be it my wrong@ you are from me exempt, But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt. Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine, Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state, Makes me with thy strength to communicate If aught possess thee from me, it is dross, Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion Infect thy sap@ and live on thy confusion. Ant. S.To me she speaks she moves me for her theme What, was I married to her in my dream@ Or sleep I now@ and think I hear all this@ What error drives our eyes and ears am@is@s Until I know this sure uncertainty, I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy. Luc.@Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner. Dro. S.@O, for my beads! I cross me for a sinner. This is the fairy land @@O spite of spites! We talk with goblins, owls@ and @@@@s@@@prites If we obey them not, this will ensue, They'll suck our breath@ or pinch us black and blue. Luc.@Why pratest thou to thyself@ and answer'st not@ Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot! Dro. S.@I am transformed, master, am I  S.@I think@ thou art@ in mind, and so am I. Dro. S.@Nay, master, both in mind@ and in my shape. Ant. S.Thou hast thine own form. @Dro. S.No, I am an ape. Luc.@If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass. Dro. S.'Tis true she rides me@ and I long for grass. 'Tis so, I am an ass else it could never be@ But I should know her as well as she knows me. Adr.Come, co@me, no longer will I be a fool, To put the finger in the eye and weep, Whilst man@ and master@ laugh my woes to scorn. Co@me, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate. Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day@ And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks. Sirrah, if any ask you for your master, Say@ he dines forth, and let no creature enter. Co@me, sister. Dromio, play the porter well. @Ant. S.Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell@ Sleeping or waking@ mad@ or well-advised@ Known unto these, and to myself disguised! I'll say as they say@ and persever so, And in this mist at all adventures go. Dro. S.@Master, shall I be porter at the gate@ Adr.Ay and let none enter, lest I break your pate. Luc.@Come, co@me, Antipholus, we dine too late.  Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all My wife is shrewish@ when I keep not hours Say@ that I linger'd with you at your shop@ To see the making of her carcanet, And that to-morrow you will bring it home. But here's a villain@ that would face me down He met me on the mart and that I beat him, And charged him with a thousand marks in gold, And that I did deny my wife and house. Thou@ drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this@ Dro. E.@Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know That you beat me at the mart, I have your hand to show If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink, Your own handwriting would tell you what I think. Ant. E.I think@ thou art an ass. Dro. @E@.@Marry, so it doth appear By the wrongs I suffer@ and the blows I bear. I should kick, being kick'd and, being at that pass, You would keep from my heels@ and beware of an ass. @You@'re sad, Signior Balthazar pray God@ our cheer May answer my good will@ and y@our good welcome here. Bal.@I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear. Ant. E.O, Signior Balthazer, either at flesh or fish, A table full of welcome make@ scarce one dainty dish. Bal.@Good meat, sir, is common that every churl af@fords. Ant. E.And welcome more common for that's nothing but words. Bal.Small cheer@ and great welcome@ makes a merry feast. Ant.  host@ and more sparing guest But though my cates be mean, take them in good part Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart. But, soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in. Dro. E.@Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicel@,  malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch! Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch. Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for such store, When one is one too many@@ Go, get thee from the door. D@ro. @E.@What patch is made our porter @@My master stays in the  Let him walk from whence he came, lest he catch cold on's feet. Ant. E.@Who talks within there@ ho, open the door!  Right, sir@ I'll tell you when, an you'll tell me wherefore. Ant. E.Wherefore@ for my dinner I have not dined  to-day here you must not co@me again@ when you may. Ant. E.What are thou@ that keepest me out from the house I owe@  The porter for this time, sir, and my name is Dromio. Dro. E.O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name. The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame. If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place, Thou would@st have changed thy face for a name@ or thy name for an ass. Luce. Within What a coil is there, Dromio@ who are those at the gate@ Dro. E.@Let my master in, Luce.  no he comes too late And so tell your master. Dro. E.O Lord, I must laugh! Have at you with a proverb--Shall I set in my staff@ Luce. Within Have at you with another that's--When@ can you tell D If thy name be call'd Luce,--Luce, thou hast answer'd him well. Ant. E.@Do you hear, you minion@ you'll let us in, I hope@  I thought to have asked you.  you said@ no. Dro. E.@So, co@me, help well struck! there was blow for blow. Ant. E.Thou baggage, let me in.  you tell for whose sak@e Dro. E.@Master, knock the door hard.  him knock till it  cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down. Luce. Within What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town A Who is that at the door@ that keeps all this noise@ Dro. S. By my troth, your town is troubled with unruly boys. Ant. E.Are you there, wife @@you might have co@me before.  Your wife, sir knave! go@ get you from the door. Dro. E.If you went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore. Ang.@Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome we would fain have either. Bal.@In debating which was best, we shall part with neither. Dro. E.@They stand at the door, master bid them wel@come hither.  is something in the wind, that we cannot get in. Dro. E.@You would say so, master, if your garments were thin. Your cake there is warm within you stand here in the cold It would make a man mad as a buck, to be so bought and sold. Ant. E.Go@ fetch me something@ I'll break ope the gate. Dro. S. Within Break any breaking here, and I'll break your knave's pate. Dro. E.A man may break a word with you, sir, and words are but wind, Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind. Dro. Within It seems@ thou want'st breaking out upon thee, hind! Dro. E.Here's too much 'out upon thee!' I pray thee, let me  Ay, when fowls have no feathers@ and fish have no fin. Ant. E.@Well, I'll break in go borrow me a crow. Dro. E.@A crow without@@ feather Master, mean y@ou so@ For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together. Ant. E.Go@ get thee gone@ fetch me an iron crow. Bal.@Have patience, sir O, let it not be so! Herein you war against your reputation@ And draw within the compass of suspect The unviolated hono@r of your wife, Once this,--your long experience of her wisdom, Her sober virtue, years@ and modesty, Plead on her part some cause to you unknown And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you. Be ruled by me depart in patience, And let us to the Tiger all to dinner, And@ about evening@ co@me yourself alone@ To know the reason of this strange restraint. If by strong hand you offer to break in@ Now in the stirring passage of the day, A vulgar comment will be made of it, And that supposed by the common rout Against your yet ungalled estimation@ That may with foul intrusion enter in@ And dwell upon your grave when you are dead For slander lives upon succession, For ever housed@ wherewhere it gets possession. @Ant. E.You have prevailed I will depart in quiet, And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry. I know a wench of excellent discourse, Pretty and witty wild, and@ yet, too, gentle @There will we dine. This woman that I mean, My wife--but,@ I protest, without desert-~Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal To her will we to  you home@ And fetch the chain by this@ I know@ 'tis made Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine For there's the house that chain will I bestow-~Be it for nothing but to spite my wife-~Upon mine hostess there good sir, make haste. Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me, I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me. Ang.@I'll meet you at that place@ some hour hence. Ant. E.Do so. This jest shall cost me some @And may it be that you have quite forgot A husband's office@ shall, Antipholus@@@@@@. Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot@ Shall love, in building, grow so ruin@ous If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then@ for her wealth's sake@ use her with more kindness Or@ if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth Muffle your false love with some show ofblindness Let not my sister read it in your eye Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty Apparel vice@ like virtue's harbinger Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint Be secret-false what need she be acquainte@d What simple thief brags of his own attaint@@ 'Tis double wrong, to truant with your bed@ And let her read it in thy looks at board Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed Ill deeds are doubled with an evil word. Alas, poor women! make us but believe, Being compact of credit, that you love us Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve We in your motion turn@ and you may move us. Then, gentle brother, get you in again Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife 'Tis holy sport@ to be a little vain, When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife. Ant. S.Sweet mistress,--what your name is else, I know not, Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine,-~Le@ss in your knowledge@ and your grace@ you show not@ Than our earth's wonder, more than earth divine. Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak Lay open to my earthly-gross conceit, Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak, The folded meaning of your words' deceit. Against my soul's pure truth why labo@r you@ To make it wander in an unknown field @@Are you a god@@ would you create me new@@ Transform me@ then, and to your power I'll yield. But if that I am I, then well I know vYour weeping sister is no wife of mine, Nor to her bed no homage do I owe Far more, far more@ to you do I decline. O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note, To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears Sing, siren, for thyself@ and I will dote Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs, And as a bed I'll take th@em and there lie, And@ in that glorious supposition@ think He gains by death@ that hath such means to die Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink! @Luc.@What, are you mad, that you do reason so Ant. S.Not mad, but mated how, I do not know. Luc.@It is a fault that springeth from your eye. Ant. S.For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by. Luc.@Gaze where you should, and that will clear y@our sight. Ant. S.@As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night. Luc.@Why call you me love@ call my sister so. Ant. S.Thy sister's sister. Luc.@That's my sister. Ant. S.@No It is thyself, mine own self's better part, Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart, My food, my fortune@ and my sweet hope's aim, My sole earth's heaven@ and my heaven's claim. Luc.All this my sister is, or el@se should be. Ant. S.Call thyself sister, sweet, for I a@m thee. Thee will I love@ and with thee lead my life Thou hast no husband yet@ nor I no wife. Give me thy hand. Luc.@O, soft, sir! hold you still I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will.   Ant. S.Why, how now, Dromio! where runn'st thou so fast@ Dro. S.Do you know me, sir@ am I Dromio@ am I your man@ am I myself Ant. S.@Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself. Dro. S.@I am an ass, I am a woman's man@ and besides myself. Ant. S.@What woman's man@ and how besides thy@self Dro. S.Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a wo@man one that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.  claim lays she to thee @@Dro. S.@Marry, sir, such claim as you would lay to your horse and she would have me as a beast not that, I being a beast, she would have me but that she, being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me. Ant. S.What is she @@@Dro. S.@A very reverent body ay, such a one as a man may not speak of@ without he say 'Sir-reverence.' I have but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a wondrous fat marriage. Ant. S.@How dost thou mean@ a fat marriage@ Dro. S.@Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench@ and all grease and I know not what use to put her to@ but to make a lamp of her@ and run from her by her own light. I warrant, her rags@ and the tallow in them@ will burn a Poland winter if she lives till doomsday, she'll burn a week longer than the whole world. Ant. S.What complexion is she of@ Dro. S.Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing like so clean kept for why@, she sweat@s a man may go over shoes in the grime of it. Ant. S.@That's a fault that water will mend. Dro. S.@No, sir, 'tis in grain Noah's flood could not do it. Ant. S.What's her name Dro. S.Nell, sir @but her name and three quarters, that@'s@ an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from hip to hip. Ant. S.Then she bears some breadth@@ Dro. S.@No longer from head to foot@ than from hip to hip she is spherical, like a globe I could find out coun@tries in her. Ant. S.@In what part of her body stands Ireland Dro. S.Marry, sir, in her buttocks I found it out by the bogs. Ant. S.@Where Scotland@ Dro. S.@I found it by the barrenness hard@ in the palm of the hand. Ant. S.Where France Dro. S.In her forehead armed and reverted, making war against her heir. Ant. S.@Where England@ Dro. S.@I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no whiteness in them but I gue@ss it stood in her chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it. Ant. S.Where Spain Dro. S.Faith, I saw it not but I felt it@ hot in @her breath. Ant. S.@Where America, the Indies@  sir, upon her nose, all o'er embellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain who sent whole armadoes of car@acks to be ballast at her nose. Ant. S.Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands@@ Dro. S.Oh, sir, I did not look so low. To conclude, this drudge, or diviner, laid claim to me called me Dromio swore@ I was assured to her told me what privy marks I had about me, as, the mark of my shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my left arm, that I@ amazed@ ran from her as a witch And, I think, if my breast had not been made of faith@ and my heart of steel, She had transform'd me to a curta@l dog@ and made me turn i' the wheel.  S.Go@ hie thee presently, post to the road An@ if the wind blow any way from shore, I will not harbo@r in this town to-night@ If any bark put forth, co@me to the mart, Where I will walk till thou return to me. If every one knows us@ and we know none, 'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack@ and be gone. Dro. @S.@As from a bear a man would run for life, So fly I from her that would be my  none but witches do inhabit here And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence. She@ that doth call me husband, even my soul Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister, Posse@ss'd with such a gentle sovereign grace, Ofsuch enchanting presence and discourse, Hath almost made me traitor to myself But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong, I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song. Enter   that's my name. Ang.I know it well, sir, lo, here is the chain. I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long. S.What is your will@ that I shall do with this Ang.What please yourself, sir I have made it for you. Ant. S.@Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not. Ang.@Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have. Go home with it@ and please your wife withal And soon at supper-time I'll visit you@ And then receive my money for the chain. Ant. S.I pray you, sir, receive the money now, For fear you ne'er see chain@ nor money@ more. Ang.@You are a merry man, sir fare you  I should think of this, I cannot tell But this I think, there's no man is so vain@ That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain. I see@ a man here needs not live by shifts, When in the streets he meets such golden gifts. I'll to the mart@ and there for Dromio stay If any ship put out, then straight away.  ANGEL@You know@ since Pentecost the sum is due, And since I have not much importun@ed you Nor now I had not, but that I am bound To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage Therefore make present satisfaction, Or I'll attach you by this officer. Ang.Even just the sum@ that I do owe to you@ Is growing to me by Antipholus, And@ in the instant that I met with you@ He had of me a chain at five o'clock@ I shall receive the money for the same. Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house, I will discharge my bond@ and thank you too.  see where he co@mes. Ant. E.While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou And buy a rope's end that will I bestow Among @my wife and her confederates, For locking me out of my doors by day. But, soft! I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone Buy thou a @rope@ and bring it home to me. Dro. E.@I buy a thousand pound a year@ I buy a  man is well holp up@ that trusts to you I promised your presence@ and the chain But neither chain@ nor goldsmith@ came to me. Belike@ you thought our love would last too long, If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not. @Ang.@Saving your merry humo@r, here's the note@ How much your c@hain weighs to the utmost carat, The fineness of the gold@ and chargeful fashion, Which doth amount to three odd ducats more Than I stand debted to this gentleman I pray you, see him presently discharged, For he is bound to sea@ and stays but for it. Ant. E.I am not furnish'd with the present money Besides, I have some business in the town. Good signior, take the stranger to my house@ And with you take the chain@ and bid my wife Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof Perchance@ I will be there as soon as you. Ang.Then you will bring the chain to her yourself@ Ant. E.@No bear it with you, lest I come not time enoug@h. Ang.@Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you@ Ant. E.@An if I have not, sir, I hope you have Or else you may return without your money. Ang.Nay, co@me, I pray you, sir, give me the chain@ Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman, And I, to bla@me, have held him here too long. Ant. E.Good Lord! you use this dalliance@ to excuse Your breach of promise to the Porpentine. I should have chid you for not bringing it, But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl. Sec. Mer.@The hour steals on I pray you, sir, dispatch. @Ang.@You hear@ how he importunes me --the  Ant. E.Why, give it to my wife@ and fetch your money. Ang.Come, co@me, you know@ I gave it you even now. Either send the chain@ or send me by some token.  now you run this humo@r out of breath, Co@me, where's the chain@ I pray you, let me see  business cannot brook this dalliance. Good sir, say@ whether you'll answer me@ or no If not, I'll leave him to the officer. Ant. E.I answer you! what should I answer you Ang.The money@ that you owe me for the  owe you none@ till I receive the chain. Ang.@You know@ I gave it you half an hour since. Ant. E.You gave me none you wrong me much to say so. Ang.You wrong me more, sir, in denying it Consider@ how it stands upon my credit. Sec.  officer, arrest him at my suit. Off.I do and charge you@ in the duke's name@ to obey me. Ang.@This touches me in reputation. Either consent to pay this sum for me@ Or I attach you by this officer. @Ant. E.Consent to pay thee that I never had! Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou darest. Ang.Here is thy fee arrest him, officer, I would not spare my brother in this case, If he should scorn me so apparently. Off.I do arrest you, sir you hear the suit. Ant. E.I do obey thee@ till I give thee bail. But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear As all the metal in your shop will answer. Ang.Sir, sir, I shall have law in Ephesus, To your notorious shame@ I doubt it not.  there is a bark of Epidamnum@ That stays but till her owner comes aboard, And then, sir, she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir, I have convey'd aboard and I have bought The oil, the balsamum@ and aqua-vitae. The ship is in her trim the merry wind Blows fair from land they stay for nought at all@ But for their owner, master, and yourself. E.How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep, What ship of Epidamnum stays for me Dro. @S.@A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage. Ant. E.Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope And told thee to w@hat purpose@ and what end. Dro. S.You sent me@@@@@@ for a rope's end as soon You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark. Ant. E.I will debate this matter at more leisure@ And teach your ears to list me with more heed. To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight Give her this key, and tell her, in the desk That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry, There is a purse of ducats let her send it Tell her@ I am arrested in the street@ And that shall bail me hie thee, slave, be gone! On, officer, to prison till it  Merchant, Angelo,Off Adriana! that is where we dined, Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband She is too big, I hope, for me to compass. Thither I must, although against my will, For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.  Luciana, did he tempt thee so@ Might@st thou perceive austerely in his eye That he did plead in earnest@ yea or no@ Look'd he or red@ or pale, or sad@ or merrily@ What observation madest thou in this case@ Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face@ Luc.@First@ he denied you had in him no right. Adr.He meant@ he did me none the more my spite. Luc.@Then swore he@ that he was a stranger here. Adr.And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were. Luc.@Then pleaded I for you. Adr.And what said hehe Luc.@That love I begg'd for you@ he begg'd of me. Adr.With what persuasion did he tempt thy love@ Luc.@With words@ that in an honest suit might move. First@ he did praise my beauty, then@ my speech. Adr.Didst speak him fair@ Luc.@Have patience, I beseech. Adr.I cannot, nor I will not, hold me still My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will. He is deformed, crooked, old@ and sere, Ill-faced, worse bodied, shapeless every@where Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind, Stigmatical in making, worse in mind. Luc.@Who would be jealous then of such a one@ No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone. Adr.@Ah, but I think him better than I say, And yet would herein others' eyes were worse. Far from her nest the lapwing cries away My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse. Enter @Here! go the desk, the purse! sweet, now, make haste. @Luc.@How hast thou lost thy breath@ Dro. @S.@By running fast. Adr.Where is thy master, Dromio @@is he well @@Dro. S.@No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell. A devil in an everlasting garment hath him@ One@ whose hard heart is button'd up with steel A fiend, a f@ury, pitiless and rough A wolf, nay, worse, a fellow all in buff A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that countermands The passages of alleys, creek@s and narrow lands A hound t@hat runs counter@ and yet draws dry@foot well One that@ before the judgement@ carries poor souls to hell. Adr.@Why, man, what is the matter@  not know the matter he is 'restedon the case. Adr.@What, is he arrested@ Tell me@ at whose suit. Dro. S.I know not at whose suit he is arrested@ well But he's in a suit of buff@ which 'rested him, that can I tell. Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk Adr.@Go fetch it,  I wonder at, @@@@@@That he, unknown to me, should be in debt, Tell me, was he arrested on a band@ Dro. S.@Not on a band, but on a stronger thing vA chain, a chain! Do you not hear it ring@ Adr.@What, the chain@ Dro. S.@No, no, the bell 'tis time@ that I were gone@ It was two ere I left him, and now the clock strikes one, Adr.The hours co@me back! that did I never hear. Dro. S.O, yes@ if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for very fear. Adr.@As if Time were in debt! how fondly dost thou reason@! Dro. @S.@Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's worth, to season. Nay, he's a thief too have you not heard men say, That Time co@mes stealing on by night and day@ If Time be in debt@ and theft, a@nd a sergeant in the way, Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day Re- Dromio there's the money, bear it straight, And bring thy master home immediately. Come, sister I am press'@d down with conceit-~Conceit, my comfort@ and my injury.  Syracuse. S.There's not a man I meet@ but doth salute me As if I were their well-acquainted friend And every one doth call me by my name. Some tender money to me@ some invite me Some other give me thanks for kindnesses Some offer me commodities to buy Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop@ And show'd me silks that he had bought for me@ And@ therewithal@ took @measure of my body. Sure, these are but imaginary wiles@ And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here. Enter @Master, here's the gold you sent me for. What, have you got the picture of old Adam new- Ant. S.What gold is this@ what Adam dost thou mean Dro. S.Not that Adam@ that kept the Paradise, but that Adam@ that keeps the prison he that goes in the calf's skin that was killed for the Prodigal he that came behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you forsake your liberty. Ant. S.I understand thee not. Dro. S.@No@ why, 'tis a plain case he that went, like a bass-viol, in a case of l@eather the man, sir, that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob@ and 'rests them he, sir, that takes pity on decayed men@ and gives them suits of durance he that sets up his rest to do more exploits with his mace@ than a morris-pike. Ant. S.What, thoumeanest an  S.@Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band he that brings any man to answer it@ that breaks his band one that thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God  sir, there rest in your foolery. Is there any ship puts forth to-night @@may we be go@ne @@Dro. S.Why, sir, I brought you word an @hour since@ that the bark Expedition put forth to-night and then were you hindered by the sergeant, to tarry for the hoy@ Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for@ to deliver you. Ant. S.The fellow is distract, and so am I And here we wander in illusions Some blessed power deliver us from hence! Enter a Courtezan. C@our.@Well met, well met, Master Antipholus. I see, sir, you have found the golds@mith no@w Is that the chain@ you promised me to-day Ant. S.Satan, avoid! I charge thee, te@mpt me not. Dro. S.@Master, is this Mistress Satan Ant. S.It is the devil. Dro. S.Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam and here she co@mes in the habit of a light wench and t@hereof@ co@mes@ that the wenches say ' ' that's as much  is written, they appear to men like angels of light light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn ergo, light wenches will burn. Co@me not near her. Cour.Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir. Will you go with me@ We'll mend our dinner here@ Dro. S.@Master, if you do, expect spoon-@meat@ or bespeak a long spoon. Ant. S.Why, Dromi@o Dro. S.Marry, he must have a long spoon@ that must eat with the devil. Ant. S.Avoid then, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping@@ Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress I conjure thee to leave me@ and be gone. Cour.@Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner, Or, for my diamond, the chain you promised, And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you. Dro. S.Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail, A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin, A nut, a cherry-stone But she, more covetous, would have a chain. Master, be wise an@ if you give it her, The devil will shake her chain@ and fright us with it. Cour.@I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain I hope@ you do not mean to cheat me so. Ant. S.Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go. Dro.@ S.'Fly pride,' says the peacock mistress, that you know. Exeunt Ant. S. and .Now, out of doubt@ Antipholus is mad, Else would he never so demean himself. A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats, And for the same he promised me a chain Both one@ and other@ he denies me now. The reason that I gather he is mad, Besides this present instance of his rage, Is a mad tale@ he told to-day at dinner, Of his own doors being shut against his entrance. Belike@ his wife, acquainted with his fits, On purpose shut the doors against his way. My way is no@w to hie home to his house, And tell his wife@ that, being lunatic, He rush'd into my house@ and took perforce My ring away. This course I fittest choose For forty ducats is too much to lose.  me not, man@ I will not break away I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money, To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for. My wife is in a wayward mood to-day, And will not lightly trust the messenger. That I should be attach'd in Ephesus, I tell you, 'twill sound harshly in her ears. Enter  Here comes my man I think he brings the money. How now, sir! have you that I sent you for@ Dro. E.@Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all. Ant. E.But where's the money Dro. E.Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope. Ant. E.Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope@ @Dro. E.I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate. Ant. E.To what end did I bid thee hie thee homeme Dro. E.@To a rope's-end, sir and to that end am I returned. Ant. E.@And to that end, sir, I will welcome you. .Good sir, be patient. Dro. E.Nay, 'tis for me to be patient I am in ad@versity. Off.Good now, hold thy tongue. Dro. @E.@Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands. Ant. E.@Thou whoreson, senseless villain! Dro. @E.@I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel your blows. Ant. E.Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an ass. Dro. E.I am an ass, indeed you may prove it by my long ears. I have served him from the hour of my nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his hands for my ser@vice@ but blows. When I am cold, he heats me with beat@ing when I am warm, he cools me with beating I am waked with it@ when I sleep raised with it@ when I sit driven out of doors with it@ when I go from home wel@comed home with it@ when I return nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a beggar wont her brat and, I think, when he hath lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.  respect your end or ra@ther, the prophecy@ like the parrot,  E.Wilt thou still talk@ Beating him. Cour.@How say you now @@is not your husband mad Adr.His incivility confirms no less. Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer Establish him in his true sense again, And I will please you what you will demand. Luc.@Alas, how fiery and how sharp he looks! Cour.@Mark@ how he trembles in his ecstasy! Pinch.@Give me your hand@ and let me feel your pulse. Ant. E.There is my hand, and let it feel your @I charge thee, Satan, housed within this man, To yield possession@ to my holy prayers@ And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven! Ant. E.Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad. Adr.O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul! Ant. E.@You minion, you, are these your customers@ Did this companion with the saffron face Revel and feast it at my house to-day, Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shu@t And I denied to enter in my house Adr.@@O husband, God doth know@ you dined at home@ Where @would you had remain'd until this time, Free from these slanders@ and this open shame! Ant. E.Dined at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou Dro. E.Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home. Ant. E.Were not my doors lock'd up@ and I shut out@ @Dro. E.@Perdie, your doors were lock'd@ and you shut out. Ant. E.And did not she herself revile me there@@ Dro. E.@Sans fable, she herself revil@ed you there. Ant. E.Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me Dro. E.@Certes, she did the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you. Ant. E.And did not I in rage depart from thence@@ @Dro. E.@In verity@ you did @my bones bear witness, That since have felt the vigo@r of his rage. Adr.@Is't good to soothe him in these contraries@ Pinch.@It is no shame the fellow finds his vein, And@ yielding to him@ humo@rs well his frenzy. Ant. E.@Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me. Adr.Alas, I sent you money to redeem you, By Dromio here, who came in haste for it. @Dro. @E.@Money by me@! heart and good@will you might@ But@ surely, master, not a rag of money. Ant. E.Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats Adr.@He came to me@ and I deliver'd it. @Luc.@And I am witness with her@ that she did. @Dro. @E.@God and the rope-maker@ bear me witne@ss That I was sent for nothing but a rope! Pinch.@Mistress, both man and master is possess'd I know it by their pale and deadly looks They must be bound@ and laid in some dark room. Ant. E.Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day@ And why dost thou deny the bag of gold Adr.I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth. Dro. E.@And, gentle master, I received no gold But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out. Adr.@Dissembling villain, thou speak'st false in both. Ant. E.Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all And art confederate with a damned pack@ To make a loathsome abject scorn of me But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes@ That would behold in me this shameful sport. @O, bind him, bind him! let him not come near me. Pinch.@More company! The fiend is strong within him. @Luc.@Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks! Ant. E.What, will you murder me@ Thou gaoler, thou, I am thy prisoner wilt thou suffer them To make a rescue Off.Masters, let him go He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him. Pinch.@Go@ bind this man, for he is frantic  wilt thou do, thou peevish officer@ Hast thou delight to see a wretched man Do outrage and displeasure to himself Off.He is my prisoner if I let him go, The debt he owes@ will be required of me. Adr.@I will discharge thee@ ere I go from thee Bear me forthwith unto his creditor, And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it. Good master doctor, see him safe convey'd Home to my house. O most unhappy day! Ant. E.@O most unhappy strumpet! Dro.  I am here enter'd in bond for you. Ant. E.@Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me@ Dro. E.Will you be bound for nothing@ be mad, good master cry 'The devil!' Luc.@God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk! Adr.@Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with  now, whose suit is he arrested at Off.One Angelo, a goldsmith do you know him @@Adr.@I know the man. What is the sum he owes Off.Two hundred ducats. Adr.@Say, how grows it due Off.Due for a chain@ your husband had of him. Adr.@He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not. Cour.@When as your husband@ all in rage@ to-day Came to my house@ and took away my ring-~The ring I saw upon his finger now-~Straight after@ did I meet him with a chain. Adr.@It may be so, but I did never see it. Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is@ I long to know the truth hereof at large.  with his rapier drawn, and @God, for thy mercy! they are loose again. Adr.And co@me with naked swords. Let's call more help@ to have them bound again. Off.Away! they'll kill   S.@I see@ these witches are afraid of swords. Dro. S.@She@ that would be your wife@ now ran from you. Ant. S.Co@me to the Centaur fetch our stuff from thence I long@ that we were safe and sound aboard. Dro. S.Faith, stay here this night@ they will surely do us no ha@rm you saw@ they speak us fair, give us gold methinks@ they are such a gentle nation@ that, but for the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of me, I could find in my heart to stay here still@ and n  Ant. S.I will not stay to-night for all the town Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.  Merchant and  am sorry, sir, that I have hinder'd you But, I protest, he had the chain of me, Though most dishonestly he doth deny it. Sec. Mer.@How is the man esteemed here in the city@ Ang.@Of very reverend reputation, sir, Of credit infinite, highly beloved, Second to none that lives here in the city His word might bear my wealth at any time. Sec. Mer.@Speak softly yonder, as I think, he walks.  of Syracuse. Ang.'Tis so and that self chain about his neck@ Which he forswore@ most monstrously@ to have. Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him. Signior Antipholus, I wonder much That you would put me to this shame and trouble And, not without some scandal to yourself, With circumstance@ and oaths@ so to deny This chain@ which now you wear so openly Beside@ the charge, the shame, imprisonment, You have done wrong to this my honest friend, Who, but for staying on our controversy, Had hoisted sail@ and put to sea to-day This chain you had of me@ can you deny it Ant.  I had I never did deny it. Sec. Mer.@Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too. Ant. S.@Who heard me to deny it@ or forswear it Sec. Mer.@These ears of mine, thou know'st, did hear thee. Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity@ that thou livest To walk where any honest man resort. Ant. S.Thou art a villain@ to impeach me thus I'll prove mine hono@r and mine honesty Against thee presently, if thou darest stand. Sec. Mer.@I dare, and do defy thee for a villain. They draw. Enter  and others. Adr.@Hold, hurt him not, for God's sakel he is mad. Some get within him, take his sword away Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house. Dro. S.@Run, master, run for God's sake, take a house! This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd! Exeunt Ant@@@.  S. to the Priory. Enter the Abb.Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither Adr.To fetch my poor distracted husband hence. Let us co@me in, that we may bind him fast@ And bear him home for his recovery. Ang.I knew@ he was not in his perfect wits, Sec. Mer.@I am sorry now@ that I did draw on him. Abb.How long hath this possession held the man @Adr.This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad, And much@ @@@@@different from the man he was But@ till this afternoon@ his passion Ne'er brake into extremity of rage. Abb.Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea@@ Buried some dear friend@ Hath not else his eye Stray'd his affection in unlawful love@ A sin@ prevailing much in youthful men, Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing. Which of these sorrows is he subject to@ Adr.To none of these, except it be the last Namely, some lov@e that drew him oft from home. Abb.You should for that have reprehended him. Adr.@Why, so I did. Abb.Ay, but not rough enough. Adr.@As roughly@ as my modesty would let me. Abb.@Haply, in private. Adr.@And in assemblies too. Abb.Ay, but not enough. Adr.@It was the copy of our conference In bed@ he slept not for my urging it At board@ he fed not for my urging it Alone, it was the subject of my theme In company@ I often glanced it Still did I tell him it was vile and bad. Abb.And thereof came it@ that the man was mad The venom clamo@rs of a jealous woman Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth. It seems@ his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing, And there@o@f comes it@ that his head is light. Thou say'st@ his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings Unquiet meals make ill digestions@ Thereof the raging fire of fever bred And what's a fever but a fit of madne@ss Thou say'st@ his sports were hinder'd by thy brawls Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue@ But moody and dull melancholy, Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair, And@ at her heels@ a huge infectious troop Of pale distemperatures@ and foes to life@ In food, in sport@ and life-preserving rest To be disturb'd, would mad or man@ or beast The consequence is then@ thy jealous fits Have scared thy husband from the use of wits. @Luc.@She never reprehended him but mildly. When he demean'd himself rough, rude@ and wildly. Why bear you these rebukes@ and answer not@ Adr.She did betray me to my own reproof. Good people, enter@ and lay hold on him. Abb.No, not a creature enters in my house. Adr.@Then@ let your servants bring my husband forth. Abb.Neither he took this place for sanctuary, And it shall privilege him from your hands@ Till I have brought him to his wits again, Or lose my labo@r in assaying it. Adr.I will attend my husband, be his nurse, Diet his sickness, for it is my office, And will have no attorney but myself And therefore let me have him home with me. Abb.Be patient for I will not let him stir@ Till I have used the approved means I have, With wholesome syrups, drugs@ and holy prayers, To make of him a formal man again It is a branch and parcel of mine oath, A charitable duty of my order. Therefore depart@ and leave him here with me, Adr.I will not hence@ and leave my husband here And ill it doth beseem your holine@ss To separate the husband and the wife. Abb.Be quiet@ and depart@ thou shalt not have him. Exit. Luc.@Complain unto the duke of this indignity. Adr.Co@me, go I will fall prostrate at his feet@ And never rise until my tears and prayers Have won his grace to co@me in person hither@ And take perforce my husband from the abbess. Sec. Mer.@By this, I think, the dial points at five Anon, @I'm sure, the duke himself in person Co@mes this way to the melancholy vale, The place of death and sorry execution, Behind the ditches of the abbey here. @Ang.@Upon what cause Sec. Mer.@To see a reverend Syracusian merchant, Who put unluckily into this bay Against the laws and statutes of this town, Beheaded publicly for his offence. Ang.See@ where they come we will behold his death. Luc.@Kneel to the duke@ before he pass the abbey. Enter DUKE,  AEGEON bare@headed@ with the Headsman and other  once again proclaim it publicly, If any friend will pay the sum for him,m He shall not die@ so much we tender him. Adr.Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess! Duke.She is a virtuous and a reverend lady It cannot be@ that she hath done thee wrong. Adr.@May it please your grace, Antipholus, my hus@band, Whom I made lord of me and all I had, At your important letters,--this ill day A most outrageous fit of madness took him That desperately he hurried through the street, With him his bondman, all as mad as he,-~Doing displeasure to the citizens By rushing in their houses, bearing thence Rings, jewels, any thing his rage did like. Once did I get him bound@ and sent him home, Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went, That here and there his fury had committed. Anon, I wot not by what strong escape, He broke from those that had the guard of him And@ with his mad attendant and himself, Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords, Met us again@ and@ madly bent on us, Chased us away till, raising of more aid, We came again to bind them. Then they fled Into this abbey, whither we pursued them And here the abbess shuts the gates on us@ And will not suffer us to fetch him out, Nor send him forth@ that we may bear him hence. Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command@ Let him be brought forth@ and borne hence for help. Duke.@Long since@ thy husband served me in my wars, And I to thee engaged a prince's word, When thou didst make him master of thy bed, To do him all the grace and good I could. Go, some of you, knock at the abbey-gate@ And bid the lady abbess come to me. I will determine this@ before I stir. Enter a Servant. Serv.O mistress, mistress, shift and save yourself! My master and his man are both broke loose, Beaten the maids a-row@ and bound the doctor, Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire And ever, as it blazed, they threw on him Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair My master preaches patience to him and the while His man with scissors nicks him like a fool, And@ sure, unless you send some present help, Between them they will kill the conjurer. Adr.Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here, And that is false@ thou dost report to us. Serv.@Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true I have not breathed almost@ since I did see it. He cries for you, and vows, if he can take you, To scorch your face@ and to disfigure you. Cry within. Hark, hark! I hear him, mistress fly, be gone! Duke.@Co@me, stand by me@ fear nothing. Guard @and  Adr.Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you, That he is borne about invisible Even now we hous@ed him in the abbey here And now he's there, past thought of human reason. Enter  most gracious duke, O@, grant me justice! Even for the service that long since I did thee, When I bestrid thee in the war@s and took Deep scars to save thy life even for the blood That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice. AEg@e.@Unless the fear of death doth make me dote, I see my son Antipholus@ and Dromio. Ant. E.@Justice, sweet prince, against that woman there! She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife, That hath abused and dishono@r'd me@ Even in the strength and height of injury! Beyond imagination is the wrong@ That she this day hath shameless thrown on me. Duke.@Discover how, and thou shalt find me just. Ant. E.This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me, While she with harlots feasted in my house. Duke.@A grievous fault! Say, woman, didst thou so Adr.No, my good lord @myself, he@ and my sister@ To-day did dine together. So befall my soul@ As this is false@ he burdens me withal! Luc.@Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night, But she tells to your highness simple truth! Ang.O perjured woman! They are both forsworn@ In this the madman justly chargeth them. Ant. E.My liege, I am advised what I say, Neither disturbed with the effect of wine, Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire, Albeit@ my wrongs might make one wiser mad. This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with @her, Could witness it, for he was with me then@ Who parted with me to go fetch a chain, Promising to bring it to the Porpentine, Where Balthazar and I did dine together. Our dinner done, and he not coming thither, I went to seek him in the street I meet him And in his company@ that gentleman. There did this perjured goldsmith swear me down@ That I this day of him received the chain, Which, God he knows, I saw not for the which@ He did arrest me with an officer. I did obey, and sent my peasant home For certain ducats he with none return'd@ Then fairly I bespoke the officer@ To go in person with me to my house. By the way we met My wife, her sister, and a rabble more Of vile confederates. Along with them They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-faced villain, A mere anatomy, a mountebank, A thread@bare juggler@ and a forutne-teller, A needy, hollow-eyed, sharp-looking wretch, A living-dead man this pernicious slave, Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer, And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse, And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me, Cries out, I was possess'd. Then all together They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence And in a dark and dankish vault at home There left me and my man, both bound together Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder, I gain'd my freedom@ and immediately Ran hither to your grace whom I beseech To give me ample satisfaction For these deep shames and great indignities. Ang.My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him, That he dined not at home, but was lock'd out. Duke.@But had he such a chain of thee or no Ang.He had, my lord and when he ran in here, These people saw the chain about his neck. Sec. Mer.@Besides, I will be sworn@ these ears of mine Heard you confe@ss you had the chain of him@ After you first foreswore it on the mart@ And@ thereupo@n I drew my sword on you And then you fled into this abbey here, From whence, I think, you are come by miracle. Ant. E.@I never came within these abbey@walls, Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven! And this is false@ you burden me withal. Duke.@Why, what an intricate impeach is this! I think@ you all have drunk of Circe's cup. If here you housed him, here he would have been If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly You say@ he dined at home the goldsmith here Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you@@ Dro. E.@Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine. Cour.@He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring. Ant. E.'Tis true, my liege@ this ring I had of her. Duke.@Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here@ Cour.@As sure, my liege, as I do see your grace. Duke.Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither. I think@ you are all mated@ or stark mad.  mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word@ Haply@ I see a friend will save my life@ And pay the sum that may deliver me. Duke.@Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt. AEge.Is not your name, sir, call@'d Antipholus@ And is not that your bondman, Dromio@ Dro. E.Within this hour I was his bondman, sir, But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords Now am I Dromio@ and his man@ unbound. AEge.I am sure@ you both of you remember me. Dro. E.@Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you For lately we were bound, as you are now@ You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir@ AEge.@Why look you strange on me@@ you know me well. Ant. E.I never saw you in my life@ till now. AEge.O, grief hath changed me@ since you saw me last, And careful hours@ with time's deformed hand Have written strange defeatures in my face But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice@@ Ant. E.@Neither. AEge.Dromio, nor thou@ Dro. E.@No, trust me, sir, nor I. AEge.I am sure@ thou dost. Dro. @E.@Ay, sir, but I am sure@ I do not and whatso@ever a man denies, you are now bound to believe him. AEge.Not know my voice! @O time's extremity, Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue@ In seven short years, that here my only son Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares@@ Though now this grained face of mine be hid In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow, And all the conduits of my blood froze up, Yet hath my night of life some memory, My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left, My dull deaf ears a little use to hear All these old witnesses--I cannot err-~Tell me@ thou art my son Antipholus, Ant. E.@I never saw my father in my life. AEg@e.@But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy, Thou know'st@ we parted but@ perhaps, my son, Thou shamest to acknowledge me in misery. Ant. E.@The duke@ and all that know me in the city@ Can witness with me that it is not so I ne'er saw Syracusa in my life. Duke.@I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years Have I been patron to Antipholus, During which time he ne'er saw Syracusa I see@ thy age and dangers make thee dote. s   Abb.Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd. All gather to see  see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me. Duke.@One of these men is Genius to the other And so of these. Which is the natural man, And which the spirit@ who deciphers them@ Dro. S.@I, sir, am Dromio command him away. Dro. E.@I, sir, am Dromio pray, let me stay. Ant. S.@AEgeon@ art thou no@t or else his ghost Dro. S.O, my old master! who hath bound him here Abb.Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds@ And gain a husband by his liberty. Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man That hadst a wife once call'd AEmilia@ That bore thee at a burden two fair sons O, if thou be'st the same AEgeon, speak, And speak unto the same AEmilia! AEge.@If I dream not, thou art AEmilia If thou art she, tell me@ where is that son That floated with thee on the fatal raft Abb.By men of Epidamnum@ he@ and I@ And the twin Dromi@o all were taken up But@ by and by@ rude fishermen of Corinth By force took Dromio@ and my son from the@m And me they left with those of@ Epidamnum. What then became of them@ I cannot tell I@ to this fortune that you see me in. Duke.Why, here begins his morning story right These two Antipholuses, these two so like, And these two Dromios, one in semblance,-~Besides her urging of her wreck at sea,-~These are the parents to these children, Which accidentally are met together. Antipholus, thou camest from Corinth first@ Ant. S.No, sir, not I I came from Syracuse. Duke.@Stay, stand apart I know not which is which. Ant. E.I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord,-~ D@r@And I with him. Ant. E.@Brought to this town by that most famous warrior, Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle. Adr.Which of you two did dine with me to-day Ant. S.I, gentle mistress. Adr.And are not you my husband@ Ant. E.No@ I say nay to that. S.And so do I@ yet did she call me so And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here, Did call me brother. To  I told you then, I hope@ I shall have leisure to make good If this be not a dream@ I see@ and hear. Ang.That is the chain, sir, which you had of me. Ant. S.I think it be, sir I deny it not. Ant. E.And you, sir, for this chain arrested me. Ang.I think I did, sir I deny it not. Adr.I sent you money, sir, to be your bail, By Dromio but I think he brought it not. Dro. E.@No, none by me. Ant. S.This purse of ducats I received from you, And Dromio, my man, did bring them me. I see@ we still did meet each other's man, And I was ta'en for him, and he for me, And thereupon these ERRORS are arose. Ant. E.These ducats pawn I for my father here. Duke.It shall not need@ thy father hath his life. Cour.@Sir, I must have that diamond from you. Ant. E.There, take it and much thanks for my good cheer. Abb.Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains To go with us into the abbey here@ And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes And all that are assembled in this place, That by this sympathized one day's error Have suffer'@d wrong, go@ keep us company, And we shall make full satisfaction. Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail Of you, my sons @and till this present hour@ My heavy burthen ne'er delivered. The duke, my husband@ and my children both, And you the calendars of their nativity, Go to a gossips' feast, and go with me After so long grief, such festivity! Duke.@With all my heart@ I'll gossip at this feast.  S.Master, shall I fetch your stuff from ship@board@ Ant. E.@Dromio, what stuffof mine hast thou embark'd@ Dro. S.@Your goods@ that lay at host, sir, in the@ Centaur. Ant. S.He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio Come, go with us we'll look to that anon Embrace thy brother there@ rejoice with him.  E. Dro. S.@There is a fat friend at your master's house, That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner She now shall be my sister, not my wife. Dro. @E.@Methinks@ you are my glass, and not my brother I see by you@ I am a sweet-faced youth. Will you walk in to see their gossiping@@ Dro. S.@Not I, sir you are my elder. Dro. E.That's a question how shall we try it@ @Dro. S.We'll draw cuts for the senior till then@ lead thou first. Dro. E.Nay, then, thus We came into the world@ like brother and brother And now let's go hand in hand, not one before  house.  this letter@ that Don Peter of Arragon comes this night to Messina. Mess.He is very near by this he was not three leagues off when I left him. Leon.@How many gentlemen have you lost in this action@ Mess.But few of any sort, and none of name. Leon.@A victory is twice itself@ when the achiever brings home full numbers. I find here@ that Don Peter hath be@stowed much hono@r on a young Florentine@ called Claudio. Mess.Much deserved on his part@ and equally remem@bered by Don Pedro he hath borne himself beyond the promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb, the feats of a lion he hath@ indeed@ better bettered expectation@ than you must expect of me to tell you how. Leon.@He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much glad of it. Mess.I have already delivered him letters, and there ap@pears much joy in him even so much@ that joy could not show itself modest enough@ without a badge of bitterness. Leon.@Did he break out into tears@@ Mess.In great measure. Leon.A kind overflow of kindness there are no faces truer than those that are so washed. How much better is it to weep at jo@y than to joy at weeping@! Beat.@I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the wars@ or no@ Mess.I know none of that name, lady there was none such in the army of any sort. Leon.@What is he that you ask for, niece@@ Hero.@My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua. Mess.O, he@'s returned and as pleasant as ever he was. Beat.@He set up his bills here in Messina@ and challenged Cupid at the flight and my uncle's fool, reading the chal@lenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged him at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he killed and eaten in these war@s But how many hath he killed@ for@ indeed@ I promised@ to eat all of his killing. Leon.@Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much but he@@'ll be meet with you, I doubt it not. Mess.He hath done good service, lady, in these wars. Beat.@You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it he is a very valiant trencher@man@ he hath an excellent stomach. Mess.And a good soldier too, lady. Beat.@And a good soldier to a lady @but what is he to a lord@@ Mess.A lord to a lord, a man to a man stuffed with all hono@rable virtues. Beat.@It is so, indeed he is no less than a stuffed man but for the stuffing,-well, we are all mortal. Leon.You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her they never meet@ but there@'s a skirmish of wit between them. Beat.@Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last conflict@ four of his five wits went halting off, and now is the whole man governed with one so that if he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him bear it for a difference between himself and his horse for it is all the wealth that he hath left, to be known a reasonable creature. Who is his com@panion now@@ He hath every month a new sworn brother. Mess.Is@'t possible@ Beat.@Very easily possible he wears his faith but as the fashion of his hat@ it ever changes with the next block. Mess.I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books. Beat.@No an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray you, who is his companion @@Is there no young squarer now@ that will make a voyage with him to the devil@ Mess.He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio. Beat.@O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease he is sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker runs presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! if he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a thousand pound ere a' be cured. Mess.I will hold friends with you, lady. Beat.@Do, good friend. Leon.@You will never run mad, niece. Beat.@No, not till a hot January. Mess.Don Pedro is approached. Enter DON @Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your trouble the fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it. Leon.Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of your grace for trouble being gone, comfort should remain but@ when you depart from me, sorrow abides@ and happi@ness takes his leave. D. Pedro.@You embrace your charge too willingly. I think@ this is your daughter. Leon.@Her mother hath many times told me so. Bene.@Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her@ Leon.@Signior Benedick, no for then were you a child. D. Pedro.@You have it full, Benedick we may guess by this what you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers herself. Be happy, lady@ for you are like an hono@rable father. Bene.@If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not have his head on her shoulders@ for all Messina, as like him as she is. Beat.@I wonder@ that you will still be talking, Signior Benedick nobody marks you. Bene.@What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet livingng Beat.@Is it possible@ disdain should die@ while she hath such meet food to feed it@ as Signior Benedickck Courtesy it@self must convert to disdain, if you co@me in her presence. Bene.@Then is courtesy a turn@coat. But it is certain@ I am loved of all ladies, only you excepted and I would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard heart for, truly, I love none. Beat.@A dear happiness to women they would else have been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God@ and my cold blood, I am of your humo@r for that I had rather hear my dog bark at a crow@ than a man swear he loves me. Bene.@God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some gentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinate scratched face. Beat.Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such a face as yours were. Bene.@Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher. Beat.A bird of my tongue@ is better than a beast of yours. Bene.@I would@ my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's name I have done. Beat.@You always end with a jade's trick I know you of old. D. Pedro.@That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Clau@dio@ and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato@ hath invited you all. I tell him@ we shall stay here at the least a month and he heartily prays@ some occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no hypocrite, but prays from his heart. Leon.@If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. John Let me bid you welcome, my lord being reconciled to the prince your brother, I owe you all duty. John.I thank you I am not of many words, but I thank you. Leon.Please it your grace lead on D. Pedro.@Your hand, Leonato we will go together.  Benedick and Claudio. Claud.@Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato@@ Bene.@I noted her not but I looked on her. Claud.@Is she not a modest young lady@ Bene.@Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for my simple true judgement@@ or would you have me speak after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex@ Claud.@No@ I pray thee@ speak in sober judgement. Bene.@Why, i' faith, methinks she@'s too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair praise@ and too little for a great praise only this commendation I can afford her, that@ were she other than she is, she were unhandsome and being no other but as she is, I do not like her. Claud.@Thou thinkest@ I am in sport I pray thee@ tell me truly how thou likest her. Bene.@Would you buy her, that you inquire after her@ Claud.@Can the world buy such a jewelel Bene.@Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad brow @@or do you play the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder@ and Vulcan a rare car@penter @@Co@me, in what key shall a man take you, to go in the song@ Claud.@In mine eye@ she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on. Bene.@I can see yet without spectacles@ and I see no such matter there's her cousin, an she were not possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty@ as the first of May doth the last of December. But I hope@ you have no intent to turn husband, have you @@Claud.@I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my wife. Bene. to this@ In faith, hath not the world one man@ but he will wear his cap with suspicion@@ Shall I never see a bachelor of threescore agai@n Go to, i' faith an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it@ and sigh away Sundays. Look@ Don Pedro is returned to seek you. Re-enter DON  Pedro.@What secret hath held you here, that you followed not to Leonato's@ Bene.@I would@ your grace would constrain me to tell. Pedro.@I charge thee on thy allegiance. Bene.@You hear, Count Claudio I can be secret as a dumb man@ I would have you think so but, on my allegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He is in love. With who@ now that is your grace's part. Mark@ how short his answer is -With Hero, Leonato's short daughter. Claud.@If this were so, so were it uttered. Bene.@Like the old tale, my lord 'it is not so, nor 'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should @be so. Claud.@If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it should be otherwise. D. Pedro.@Amen, if you love her for the lady is very well worthy. Claud.@You speak this to fetch me in, my lord. D. Pedro.@By my troth, I speak my thought. Claud.And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine. Bene.@And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine. Claud.@That I love her, I feel. D. Pedro.@That she is worthy, I know. Bene.@That I neither feel how she should be loved@ nor know how she should be worthy, is the opinion that fire cannot melt out of me I will die in it at the stake. Pedro.@Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the de@spite of beauty. Claud.@And never could maintain his part@ but in the force of his will. Bene.@That a woman conceived me, I thank her that she brought me up, I likewise give her most humble thanks but that I will have a recheat winded in my forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick, all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do them the wrong to mis@trust any, I will do myself the right to trust none and the fine is, for the which I may go the finer, I will live a ba@chelor. D. Pedro.@I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love. Bene.@With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord, not with love prove@ that ever I lose more blood with love@ than I will get again with drinking, pick out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pe@n and hang me up at the door of a brothel-house@ for the sign of blind Cupid. D. Pedro.@Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou wilt prove a notable argument. Bene.@If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat@ and shoot at me and he that hits me, let him be clapped on the shoulder, and called Adam. Pedro.@Well, as time shall try 'In time the savage bull doth bear  savage bull may but if ever the sensible Be@nedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns@ and set them in my forehead and let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write 'Here is a good horse to hire,' let them signify under my  see Benedick t@he married man.' Claud.@If this should ever happen, thou would@st be horn-mad. D. Pedro.@Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly. Bene.@I look for an earthquake too, then. D. Pedro.@Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the mean@time, good Signior Ben@dick, repair to Leonato's com@mend me to him@ and tell him I will not fail him at supper for@ indeed@ he hath made great preparation. Bene.@I have almost matter enough in me for such an em@bassage and so I commit you~ Claud.@@To the tuition of God From my house, if I had it,~ D. Pedro.@@The sixth of July Your loving friend, Benedick. Bene.@Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your dis@course is sometime guarded with fragments, and the guards are but slightly basted on neither ere you flout old ends any further, examine your conscience and so I leave you. Exit. Claud.@My liege, your highness now may do me good. D. Pedro.@My love is thine to teach teach it but how, And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn Any hard lesson that may do thee good. Claud.@Hath Leonato any son, my lord D. Pedro.@No child but Hero@ she's his only heir. Dost thou affect her, Claudio@@ Claud.O, my lord, When you went onward on this ended action, I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye, That liked, but had a rougher task in hand Than to drive liking to the name of love But now I am return'd@ and that war-thoughts Have left their places vacant, in their rooms Co@me thronging soft and delicate desires, All prompting me how fair young Hero is, Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars. D. Pedro.@Thou wilt be like a lover presently@ And tire the hearer with a book of words. If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it, And I will break with her@ and with her father, And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end@ That thou began'st to twist so fine a story@ Claud.@How sweetly you do@ minister to love, That know love's grief by his complexion! But lest my liking might too sudden seem, I would have salved it with a longer treatise. D. Pedro.@What need the bridge much broader than the flood@ The fairest grant is the necessity. Look, what will serve@ is fit 'tis once, thou lovest, And I will fit thee with the remedy. I know@ we shall have revelling to-night I will assume thy part in some disguise@ And tell fair Hero I am Claudio, And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart@ And take her hearing prisoner with the force And strong encounter of my amorous tale Then@ after@ to her father will I break And@ the conclusion is, she shall be thine. In practice let us put it presently. Exeunt. SCENE  in  house. .How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son@ hath he provided this music@@ Ant.@He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell you strange news that you yet dream@t not of. Leon.@Are they good Ant.As the event stamps them but they have a good cover@ they show well outward. The prince and Count Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine orchard, were @@@@@much overheard by a man of mine the prince discovered to Claudio@ that he loved my niece your daugh@ter@ and meant to acknowledge it this night in a dance and@ if he found her accordant, he meant to take the present time by the top@ and instantly break with you of it. Leon.Hath the fellow any wit@ that told you thist.A good sharp fellow I will send for him@ and question him yourself. Leon.No, no we will hold it as a dream@ till it appear itself but I will acquaint my daughter withal, that she may be the better prepared for an answer, if peradventure this be true. Go you@ and tell her of it.  Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you mercy, friend go you with me, and I will use your skill. Good cousin@, have a care this busy time. @What the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out of measure sad D. John.@There is no measure in the occasion that breeds@@@@ therefore the sadness is without limit. Con.@You should hear reason. D. John.And when I have heard it, what blessing bring@@@s it@ Con@.@If not a present remedy, least a patient   wonder@ that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art, born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral medi@cine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide what I am I must be sad when I have cause@ and smile at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach@ and wait for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy@ and tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry@ and claw no man in his humo@r. Con@.@Yea, but you must not make the full show of this@ till you may do it without contro@lment. You have of late stood out against your brother, and he hath ta'en you newly into his grace where it is impossible you should take true root@ but by the fair weather that you make yourself it is needful that you frame the season for your own  had rather be a canker in a hedge@ than a rose in his grace, and it better fits my blood to be disdained of all@ than to fashion a carriage to rob love from any in this, though I cannot be said to be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with a muzzle@ and enfranchised with a clog therefore I have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my mouth, I would bite if I had my liberty, I would do my liking in the mean@time@ let me be that I am@ and seek not to alter me. Con@.@Can you make no use of your discontent D. John.@I make all use of it, for I use it only. Who co@mes  Bora.@I came yonder from a great supper the prince@ your brother@ is royally entertained by Leonato and I can give you intelligence of an intended marriage. D. John.Will it serve for any model to build mischief on@ What is he for a fool@ that betroths himself to unquietne@ss Bora.@Marry, it is your brother's right hand. @D. John.Who@ the most exquisite Claudio@ Bora.@Even  John.A proper squire! And who, and who@ which way looks he@ Bora.@Marry, on Hero, the daughter and@ heir of Leonato. D. John.A very forward March-chick! How came you to this@ Bora.@Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smok@ing a musty room, co@mes me the prince and Claudio, hand in hand, in sad conference I whip@t me behind the arras and there heard it agreed upon@ that the prince should woo Hero for himself, and having obtained her, give her to Count Claudio.  co@me, let us thither this may prove food to my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the glory of my overthrow if I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me@ Con@.@To the death, my lord. John.Let us to the great supper their cheer is the greater@ that I am subdued. Would the cook were of my @mind! Shall we go prove what@'s to be done@@ Bora.@We@@'ll wait upon your lordship.  in LEONATO'S house. @Was not Count John here at supper Ant.I saw him not. Beat.@How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see him@ but I am heart-burned an hour after. Hero.@He is of a very melancholy disposition. Beat.@He were an excellent man@ that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick the one is too like an image@ and says nothing, and the other@ too like my la@dy's eldest son, evermore tattling. Leon.@Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Bene@dick's face,~ Beat.@With a good leg@ and a good foot, uncle, and mo@ney enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world, if a' could get her good-will. Leon.@By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a hus@band, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue. Ant.@In faith, she@'s too curst. Beat.@Too curst is more than curst I shall lessen God's sending that way for it is said, 'God sends a curst cow short horns ' but to a cow too curst he sends none. Leon.@So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns. Beat.Just, if he send me no husband for the which blessing@ I am at him upon my knees every morning and evening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with a beard on his face I had rather lie in the woollen. Leon.You may light on a husband that hath no beard. Beat.@What should I do with him@ dress him in my apparel@ and make him my waiting~gentlewoman @@He that hath a beard@ is more than a youth, and he that hath no beard@ is less than a man and he that is more than a youth@ is not for me, and he that is less than a man, I am not for him therefore I will even take sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his apes into hell. Leon.Well, then, go you into hell @@Beat.@No, but to the gate and there will the devil meet me, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven here's no  maids ' so deliver I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the heavens he shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry as the day is long. Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled by your @Yes, faith it is my cousin's duty to make c@urt@sy@ and say 'Father,  yet for all that, cou@sin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else make another c@urt@sy@ and  please me.' Leon.@Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband. Beat.@Not till God make men of some other metal than earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be over@mastered with a piece of valiant dust @@to make an account of her life to a clod of wayward mar@l No, uncle, I'll none Adam's sons are my brethren and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred. Leon.@Daughter, remember what I told you if the prince do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer. Beat.@The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed in good time if the prince be too important, tell him@ there is measure in every thing@ and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero@ wooing, wedding, and re@penting, is as a Scotch jig, a measure, and a cinque pace the first suit is hot and hasty, like a Scotch @jig, and full as fantastical the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a measure, full of state and ancientry and then comes repentance@ and, with his bad legs, falls into the cinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave. Leon.Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly. Beat.@I have a good eye, uncle I can see a church by day@light. Leon.@The revellers are entering, brothe@r make good   and others, masked. D. Pedro.@Lady, will you walk about with your friend @@Hero.@So you walk softly@ and look sweetly@ and say no@thing, I am yours for the walk and@ especially@ when I walk away. D. Pedro.@With me in your company@@ Hero.@I may say so, when I please. D. Pedro.@And when please you to say so@@ Hero.@When I like your favo@r for God defend@ the lute should be like the case! D. Pedro.@My visor is Philemon's roof within the house is Jove. Hero.@Why, then, your visor should be thatched. D. Pedro.@Speak low, if you speak  I would you did like me. Marg.@So would not I, for your own sake for I have many ill qualities. Balth.@Which is onene Marg.@I say my prayers aloud. Balth.@I love you the better@ the hearers may cry, Amen. Marg.@God match me with a good dancer! Balth.Amen. Marg.@And God keep him out of my sight@ when the dance is done! Answer, clerk. Balth.No more words the clerk is answered. Urs.@I know you well enough you are Signior An@tonio. Ant.@At a word, I am not. Urs.@I know you by the waggling of your head. Ant.@To tell you true, I counterfeit him. Urs.@You could never do him so ill-well, unless you were the very man. Here@'s his dry hand up and down you are he, you are he. Ant.@At a word, I am not. Urs.@Co@me, come, do you think I do not know you by your excellent wit@ can virtue hide itself@ Go to, mum, you are he graces will appear, and there@'s an end. Beat.@Will you not tell me who told you so @@Bene.@No, you shall pardon me. Beat.@Nor will you not tell me who you are@@ Bene.@Not now. Beat.@That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the  this was Sig@nior Benedick that said so. Bene.@What@'s he@@ Beat.@I am sure@ you know him well enough. Bene.@Not I, believe me. Beat.@Did he never make you laugh@@ Bene.@I pray you, what is he@@ Beat.@Why, he is the prince's jester a very dull fool only his gift is in devising impossible slanders none but libertines delight in him and the commendation is not in his wit, but in his villa@ny for he both pleases men@ and angers them, and then they laugh at him@ and beat him. I am sure@ he is in the fleet I would he had boarded me. Bene.@When I know the gentleman,@@ I'll tell him what you say. Beat.Do, do he@@'ll but break a comparison or two on me which, peradventure@ not marked@ or not laughed at, strikes him into melancholy and then there@'s a partridg@e wing saved, for the fool will eat no supper that night. Music. We must follow the @In every good thing. Beat.@Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at the next ohn, Borachio, and Claudio. D. John.@Sure@ my brother is amorous on Hero@ and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it. The la@dies follow her@ and but one visor r@em@ains. @Bora.@And that is Claudio I know him by his bearing. D. John.Are not you Signior Benedick@@ Claud.@You know me well I am he. D. John.Signior, you are very near my brother in his love he is enamo@red on Hero I pray you, dissuade him from her@ she is no equal for his birth you may do the part of an honest man in it. Claud.@How know you he loves her  him swear his affection. Bora.@So did I too and he swore he would marry her to-night.  let us to the  Claud.@Thus answer I in name of Benedick, But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio. 'Tis certain so the prince wooes for himself. Friendship is constant in all other thing@s Save in the office and affairs of love Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues Let every eye negotiate for itself@ And trust no agent for beauty is a witch@ Against whose charms faith melteth into blood. This is an accident of hourly proof, Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore,  Bene.@Count Claudio@ Claud.@Yea, the same. Bene.@Co@me, will you go with me@ Claud.@Whither@ Bene.@Even to the next willow, about your own business, county. What fashion will you wear the garland of@ about your neck, like an usurer's chain@ or under your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf@ You must wear it one way, for the prince hath got your Hero. Claud.@I wish him joy of her. Bene.@Why, that@'s spoken like an honest drovier so they sell bullocks. But did you think@ the prince would have served you thus@ Claud.@I pray you, leave me, Bene.@Ho! now you strike like the blind man 't@was the boy that stole your meat, and you@@'ll beat the post. Claud.@If it will not be, @@I'll leave you. Exit. Bene.@Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges. But@ that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me! The prince's fool! Ha@ It may be@ I go under that title@ because I am merry. Yea, but so I am apt to do myself wrong I am not so reputed it is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice@ that puts the world into her person, and so gives me out. Well, @@I'll be revenged as I may. Re-enter  signior, where@'s the count@ did you see him@ Bene.@Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame. I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a war@ren I told him, and@ I think@ I told him true, that your grace had got the good will of this young lady and I offered him my company to a willow-tree, either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped. D. Pedro.@To be whipped! What@'s his fault@ Bene.@The flat transgression of a school-boy, who, being overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his compa@nion, and he steals it. D. Pedro.@Wilt thou make a trust a transgression@@ The trans@gression is in the stealer. Bene.@Yet it had not been ami@ss the rod had been made, and the garland too for the garland he might have worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest. D. Pedro.@I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to the owner. Bene.@If their singing answer your saying, by my faith, you say honestly. Pedro.@The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you the gen@tleman@ that danced with her@ told her@ she is much wronged by you. Bene.@O, she misused me past the endurance of a block! an oak@ but with one green leaf on it@ would have answered her my very visor began to assume life@ and scold with her. She told me, not thinking I had been myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was duller than a great thaw huddling jest upon jest@ with such impossible conveyance@ upon me@ that I stood like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs if her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her@ she would infect to the north star. I would not marry her, though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed she would have made Hercules have turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make the fire too. Come, talk not of her you shall find her the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God@ some scholar would @conjure her for@ certainly, while she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell@ as in a sanctuary and people sin upon purpose, because they would go thither so, indeed, all disquiet, horror@ and perturba@tion follows her. Re-enter @Will your grace command me any service to the world's end@ I will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes@ that you can devise to send me on I will fetch @you a tooth-picker now from the furthest inch of Asia, bring you the length of Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies, rather than hold three words' conference with this harpy. You have no employment for me D. Pedro.@None, but to desire your good company. Bene.@O God, sir, here's a dish I love not I cannot en@dure my Lady Tongue. Exit. D. Pedro.@Come, lady, co@me you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick. Beat.@Indeed, my lord, he lent it me a@while and I gave him use for it, a double heart for his single one marry, once before@ he won it of me with false dice, therefore your grace may well say@ I have lost it. Pedro.@You have put him down, lady, you have put him down. Beat.@So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I should prove the mother of fools. I have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek. Pedro.@Why, how now, count@! wherefore are you sad@@ Claud.@Not sad, my lord. D. Pedro.@How then@ sic@k Claud.@Neither, my lord. Beat.@The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well but civil@ count, civil as an orange, and something of that jealous complexion. D. Pedro.@I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true though,@@ I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won I have broke with her father, and his good will obtained name the day of marriage, and God give thee joy! Leon.@Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes his grace hath made the match, and all grace say Amen to it. Beat.@Speak, count, 't@is your cue. Claud.@Silence is the perfectest herald of joy I were but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as you are mine, I am yours I give away myself for you@ and dote upon the exchange. Beat.Speak, cousin or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss, and let not him speak neither. D. Pedro.@In faith, lady, you have a merry heart. Beat.@Yea, my lord I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his ear@ that he is in her heart. Claud.@And so she doth, cousin. Beat.@Good Lord, for alliance@! Thus goes every one to the world but I, and I am sun@burn@t I may sit in a cor@ner@ and cry@ heigh-ho@ for a husband! D. Pedro.@Lady Beatrice, I will get you one. Beat.@I would rather have one of your father's getting. Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you @@Your father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them. D. Pedro.@Will you have me, lady @@Beat.@No, my lord, unless I might have another for work@ing-days your grace is too costly to wear every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me I was born to speak all mirth@ and no matter. D. Pedro.@Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes you for, out of question, you were born in a merry hour. Beat.@No, sure, my lord, my mother cried but then there was a star danced, and under that was I born. Cou@sins, God give you joy! Leon.@Niece, will you look to those things I told you of Beat.I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon. @By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady. Leon.@There@'s little of the melancholy element in her, my lord she is never sad@ but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then for I have heard my daughter say, she hath often dreamed of unhappine@ss and waked herself with laughing. Pedro.@She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband. Leon.@O, by no means she mocks all her wooers out of suit. D. Pedro.@She were an excellent wife for Benedick. Leon.@O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, they would talk themselves mad. @County Claudio, when mean you to go to churchch Claud.@To-morrow, my lord time goes on crutches@ till love have all his rites. Leon.Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just seven-night and a time too brief, too, to have all things answer my mind. D. Pedro.@Co@me, you shake the head at so long a breathing but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us. I will@ in the interim@ undertake one of Hercules' la@bo@rs which is, to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection@ the one with the other. I would fain have it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if you three will but minister such assistance as I shall give you direction. Leon.My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings. Claud.@And I, my  you too, gentle Hero@ Hero.@I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a good  Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that I know. Thus far@@ can I praise him he is of a noble strain, of approved valo@r@ and confirmed honesty. I will teach you how to humo@r your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick @and I, with your two helps, will so practise on Benedick@ that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this, Cupid is no longer an archer his glory shall be ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.d @It is so the Count Claudio shall marry the daugh@ter of Leonato. Bora.@Yea, my lord but I can cross it. D. John.@Any bar, any cross, any impediment@ will be medi@cinable to me I am sick in displeasure to him, and what@soever co@mes athwart his affection@ ranges evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage@@ Bora.@Not honestly, my lord but so covertly@ that no dishonesty shall appear in me.  me briefly how. Bora.@I think@ I told your lordship@ a year since, how much I am in the favo@r of Margaret, the waiting gentlewo@man to Hero. D. John.@I remember. Bora.@I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber-window. John.@What life is in that, to be the death of this mar@riage @@Bora.@The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the prince your brother spare not to tell him@ that he hath wronged his hono@r in marrying the renowned Clau@dio~whose estimation do you mightily hold up-to a conta@minated stale, such a one as Hero. D. John.@What proof shall I make of that@ Bora.@Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio, to undo Hero@ and kill Leonato. Look you for any other issue D. John.@Only to despite them, I will endeavo@r any thing. Bora.@Go, then@ find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro@ and the Count Claudio@ alone tell them@ that you know that Hero loves me intend a kind of zeal both to the prince and Claudio, as,-in love of your brother's hono@r, who hath made this match, and his friend's reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid,-that you have discovered thus. They will scarcely believe this with@out trial offer them instances which shall bear no less likelihood@ than to see me at her chamber-window, hear me call Margaret@ Hero, hear Margaret term me @Claudio and bring them to see this@ the very night before the in@tended wedding,-for@ in the mean@time@ I will so fashion the matter@ that Hero shall be absent,-and there shall ap@pear such seeming truth of Hero's disloyalt@y that jealousy shall be called assurance@ and all the preparation overthrown. @D. John.Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put it in practice. Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a thousand ducats. Bora.@Be you constant in the accusation, and my cun@ning shall not shame me. @D. John.I will presently go learn their day of marriage.    Boy.@Signior@ Bene.@In my chamber-window lies a book bring it hi@ther to me in the orchard. Boy.@I am here already, sir. Bene.I know that @but I would have thee hence, and here again.  do much wonder@ that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behavio@rs to love, will, after he hath laughed at such shallow follies in others, become the argument of his own scorn@ by falling in love and such a man is Claudio. I have known@ when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe I have known@ when he would have walked ten mile a-foot@ to see a good armo@r and now will he lie ten nights awake, carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to speak plain@ and to the purpose, like an honest man@ and a soldier and now is he turned orthograph@y his words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many strange dishes. May I be so converted@ and see with these eyes@ I cannot tell I think not I will not be sworn@ but love may transform me to an oyster but @@I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman is fair, yet I am well another is wise, yet I am well another virtuous, yet I am well but till all graces be in one woman, one woman shall not co@me in my grace. Rich she shall be, that@'s certain wise, or @@I'll none virtuous, or @@I'11 never cheapen her fair, or@@ I'll never look on her mild, or come not near me noble, or not I for an angel of good discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what colo@r it please God. Ha! the prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the  @Co@me, shall we hear this music@ Claud.Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is, As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony! D. Pedro.See you where Benedick hath hid himself@ Claud.O, very well, my lord the music ended, We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth. Enter  Balthasar, we'll hear that song again. Balth.O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice To slander music any more than once. D. Pedro.@It is the witness still of excellency@ To put a strange face on his own perfection. I pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more. Balth.Because you talk of wooing, I will sing Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes, Yet will he swear@ he loves. D. Pedro.@Now, pray thee, come Or, if thou wilt hold longer argument, Do it in notes. Balth.Note this before my notes@ There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting. D.  these are very crotchets that he speaks Note, notes, forsooth, and  divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it not strange@ that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men's bodies@ Well, a horn for my money, when all@'s  more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever, One foot in sea@ and one on shore, To one thing constant never Then sigh not so, but let them go, And be you blithe and bonny,     so, c. D. Pedro.@By my troth, a good song. Balth.And an ill singer, my lord. Pedro.Ha, no, no, faith thou singest well enough for a shift. Bene.@@@An he had been a dog that should have howled thus, they would have hanged him and I pray God@ his bad voice bode no mischief. I had as lief have heard the night~raven, come what plague could have co@me after it. Pedro.@Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar@ I pray thee, get us some excellent music for to-morrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window. Balth.The best I can, my  so farewell.  hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick@@ Claud.O, ay @stalk on, stalk on the fowl sits.  did never think that lady would have loved any man. Leon.@No, nor I neither but most wonderfu@l that she should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behavio@rs seemed ever to abhor. Bene.@Is@'t possible@@ Sits the wind in that corner@ @@Leon.@By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think of it but@ that she loves him with an enraged affection@ it is past the infinite of thought. D.  be@ she doth but counterfeit. Claud.@@Faith, like enough. Leon.O God, counterfeit! There was neverever counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion@ as she discovers it. D. Pedro.@Why, what effects of passion shows she@@ Claud.@Bait the hook well this fish will bite. @@@Leon.@What effects, my lor@d She will sit you, you heard my daughter tell you how. Claud.@She did, indeed. D. Pedro.@How, how, I pray you@@ You amaze me I would have thought@ her spirit had been invincible against all as@saults of affection. Leon.@I would have sworn it had, my lord especially against Benedick. @@Bene.I should think this a gull, but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such reverence. Claud.@He hath ta'en the infection hold it up. D. Pedro.@Hath she made her affection known to Benedickck Leon.@No and swears she never will that@'s her tor@ment. Claud.@'Tis true, indeed so your daughter says 'Shall I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him with scorn, write to  that I love him' Leon.@This says she now when she is beginning to write to him for she@@'ll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her smock@ till she have writ a sheet of pa@per my daughter tells us all. Claud.@Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a pretty jest your daughter told us of. Leon.O, @@when she had writ it@ and was reading it over, she found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet@ Claud.@That. Leon.O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence railed at herself, that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout  says she, 'by my  flout him, if he writ to me yea, though I love him, I should.' Claud.@Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses 'O @She doth indeed my daughter says so and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her@ that my daughter is sometime@ afeard she will do a desperate outrage to herself it is very true. D. Pedro.@It were good@ that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she will not discover it. Claud.@To what end@@ He e but a sport of it@ and torment the poor lady worse. D. Pedro.@An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She@'s an excellent sweet lady and, out of all suspicion, she is vir@tuous. Claud.@And she is exceeding wise. D. Pedro.@In every thing@ but in loving Benedick. Leon.O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body, we have ten proofs to one@ that blood hath the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian. Pedro.@I would@ she had bestowed this dotage on me I would have daffed all other respects@ and made her half myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear what a' will say. Leon.@Were it good, think you@@ Claud.@Hero thinks surely@ she will die for she says@ she will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo her, rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness. D. Pedro.@She doth well if she should make tender of her love, 't@is very possible he@@'ll scorn it for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit. Claud.@He is a very proper man. D. Pedro.@He hath@ indeed@ a good outward happiness. Claud.@Before God! and, in my mind, very wise. D. Pedro.@He doth@ indeed@ show some sparks that are like wit. Claud.@And I take him to be valiant. Pedro.@As Hector, I assure you and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise for either he avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes them with a most Chris@tian-like fear. Leon.If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and  so will he do for the man doth fear God, howsoever it seems not in him@ by some large jests he will make. Well, I am sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love@ Claud.@Never tell him, my lord let her wear it out with good counsel. Leon.@Nay, that@'s impossible she may wear her heart out first. D. Pedro.@Well, we will hear further of it by your daugh@ter let it cool the while. I love Benedick well and I could wish he would modestly examine hi@mself, to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady. Leon.@My lord, will you walk @@dinner is ready. Claud.@If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never trust my expectation. D. Pedro.@Let there be the same net spread for her and that must your daughter and her gentlewoman carry. The sport will be, when they hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter that@'s the scene that I would see, which will be merely a dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.dinner. Exeunt Don Pedro, Claudio, and Leonato.  This can be no trick the conference was sadly borne. They have the truth of this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady it seems@ her affections have their full bent. Love me! why, it must be requited. I hear how I am cen@sured they say@ I will bear myself proudly, if I perceive the love come from her they say too@ that she will rather die than give any sign of affection. I did never think to marry I must not seem proud happy are they that hear their detractions@ and can put them to mending. They say@ the lady is fair 't@is a truth, I can bear them witness and virtuous 't@is so, I cannot reprove it and wise, but for loving me by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of her folly, for I will be horribly i@n love with her. I may choice have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me, because I have railed so long against marriage but doth not the appetite alter@@ a man loves the meat in his youth@ that he cannot endure in his age. Shall quips@ and sentences@ and these paper bullets of the brain@ awe a man from the career of his humo@r@ No, the world must be peopled. When I said@ I would die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I were married. @Here co@mes Beatrice. By this day! she@'s a fair lady I do spy some marks of love in her. Enter BEATRICE. Beat.@Against my will@ I am sent to bid you co@me in to dinner. Bene.@Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains. Beat.@I took no more pains for those thanks@ than you take pains to thank me if it had been painful, I would not have co@me. Bene.You take pleasure then in the message@@ Beat.@Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's point@ and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach, signior fare you well. Exit. Bene.@Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come@ in to dinner ' there@'s a double meaning in that. 'I took no more pains for those thanks@ than you took pains to thank me ' that@'s as much as to say, Any pains that I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do not take pity of her, I am a vil@lain if I do not love her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture. @Good Margaret, run thee to the parlo@r There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the prince and Claudio Whisper her ear@ and tell her, I and Ursula Walk in the orchard@ and our whole discourse Is all of her say@ that thou overheard'st us And bid her steal into the pleached bower, Where honey@suckles, ripen'd by the sun, Forbid the sun to enter, like favo@rites, Made proud by princes, that advance their pride Against that power that bred it @there will she hide her, To listen our purpose. This is thy office@ Bear thee well in it@ and leave us  her co@me, I warrant you, presently. Exit. Hero.@Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth co@me, As we do trace this alley up and down, Our talk must only be of Benedick. When I do name him, let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit My talk to thee must b@e how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made, That only wounds by hearsay.  For look where Beatrice, like a lapwing, runs Close by the ground, to hear our conference. Urs.@The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish Cut with her golden oars the silver stream, And greedily devour the treacherous bait So angle we for Beatrice who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture. Fear you not my part of the dialogue. Hero.@Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing Of the false sweet bait that we lay for  No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful I know@ her spirits are as coy and wild As haggerds of the rock. Urs.@But are you sure@ That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely @@Hero.@So says the prince@ and my new@trothed lord. Urs.@And did they bid you tell her of it, madam @@Hero.@They did entreat me to acquaint her of it But I persuaded them, if they loved Benedick, To wish him wrestle with affection, And@ never to let Beatrice know of it. Urs.@Why did you so @@Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full@ as fortunate a bed@ As ever Beatrice shall couch upon @@Hero.@O god of love! I know@ he doth deserve As much as may be yielded to a man But nature never framed a woman's heart @@Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes, Misprising what they look on, and her wit Values itself so highly@ that to her All matter else seems weak she cannot love, Nor take no shape nor project of affection, She is so self-endeared. Urs.@Sure, I think so And therefore@ certainl@y it were not good She knew his love, lest she make sport at it. Hero.@Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man, How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured, But she would spell him backward if fair@faced, She would swear@ the gentleman should be her sister If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique, Made a foul blot if tall, a lance ill-headed If low, an agate very vilely cut If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds If silent, why, a block moved with none. So turns she every man the wrong side out And never gives to truth and virtue@ that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth. Urs.@Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable. Hero.@No, not to be so odd@ and from all fashions@ As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable But who dare tell her so @@If I should speak, She would mock me into air O, she would laugh me Out of myself, press me to death with wit. Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire, Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly It were a better death than die with mocks, Which is as bad as die with tickling. Urs.@Yet tell her of it hear what she will say. Hero.@No rather I will go to Benedick@ And counsel him to fight against his passion. And, truly, I'll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with@ one doth not know@ How much an ill word may empoison liking. Urs.@O, do not do your cousin such a wrong. She can not be so much without truejudgement@~Having so swift and excellent a wit@ As she is prized to have-as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick. Hero.@He is the only man of Italy, Always excepted my dear Claudio. Urs.@I pray you, be not angry with me, madam, Speaking my fancy Signior Benedick, For shape, for bearing, argumen@t and valo@r, Goes foremost in report through Italy. Hero.@Indeed, he hath an excellent good name. Urs.@His excellence did earn it, ere he had it. When are you married, madam@ Hero.@Why, every day, to-morrow. Come, go in I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel@ Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow. Urs.@She's limed, I warrant you we have caught her, madam. Hero.@If it proves so, then loving goes by haps Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.  Ursula.  fire is in m@ine ears@ Can this be true@ Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much@@ Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu! No glory lives behind the back of such. And, Benedick, love on@ I will requite thee, Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band For others say@ thou dost deserve, and I Believe it better than reportingly.  house.  @I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go I toward Arragon. Claud.@@@I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you@@'ll vouchsafe me. D. Pedro.@Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage@ as to show a child his new coat@ and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold with Benedick for his company for, from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all mirth he hath twice or thrice cut Cu@pid's bow-string@ and the little hangman dare not shoot at him he hath a heart as sound as a bell@ and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks@ his tongue speaks. Bene.@Gallants, I am not as I have been. Leon.@So say I methinks@ you are sadder. Claud.@I hope@ he be in love. D. Pedro.@Hang him, truant! there@'s no true drop of blood in him, to be truly touched with love if he be sad, he wants money. Bene.@I have the . Bene.Hang it! Claud.@You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards. D. Pedro.@What! sigh for the toothache Leon.Where is but a humo@r@ or a worm. Bene.@Well, every one can master a grief@ but he that has it. Claud.@Yet say I, he is in love. D. Pedro.@There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises as, to be a Dutch@man to@day, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as, a German from the waist down@ward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you would have it ap@pear he is. Claud.@If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs a' brushes his hat o' mornings what should that bode D. Pedro.@Hath any man seen him at the barber's@ Claud.@No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis-ba@lls. Leon.Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard. D. Pedro.@Nay, a' rubs himself with civet can you smell him out by that@@ Claud.@That@'s as much as to say, the sweet youth@'s in love. D. Pedro.@The greatest note of it is his melancholy. Claud.@And when was he wont to wash his face D. Pedro.@Yea, or to paint himself@ for the which, I hear what they say of him. Claud.@Nay, but his jesting spirit which is now crept into a lute-string@ and now governed by stops. D. Pedro.@Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him conclude, conclude@ he is in love. Claud.@Nay, but I know who loves him. D. Pedro.@That would I know too I warran@t one that knows him not. Claud.@Yes, and his ill conditions and, in despite of all, dies for him. Pedro.@She shall be buried with her @face upwards. Bene.@Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old sig@nior, walk aside with me I have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear. Exeunt Benedick and .For my life, to break with him about Beatrice. Claud.@'T@is even so. Hero and Margaret have by this played their parts with Beatrice and then the two bears will not bite one another@ when they meet. Enter  lord and brother, God save  den, brother. D. John.@If your leisure served, I would speak with you. Pedro.@In private D. John.@If it please you @yet Count Claudio may hear for what I would speak of@ concerns him. D. Pedro.@What@'s the matter D.  your lordship to be married @You know@ he does. D. John.@I know not that, when he knows what I know. Claud.@If there be any impediment, I pray you disco@ver it. @D. John.You may think@ I love you not let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will manifest. For my brother, I think@ he holds you well, and in dear@ness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage,~surely@ suit ill spen@t and labo@r ill bestowed. D. Pedro.@Why, what@'s the matter  came hither to tell you and, circumstances short@ened, for she ha@s been too long a talking of, the lady is disloyal. Claud.@Who, Hero. John.Even she Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero. Claud.@Disloyal D. John.@The word is too good to paint out her wickedness I could say@ she were worse think you of a worse title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till further warrant go but with me to-night, you shall see her chamber@window entered, even the night before her wedding-day if you love her then, to-morrow wed her but it would better fit your hono@r to change your mind. Claud.@May this be so D. Pedro.@I will not think it. D. John.If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you know if you will follow me, I will show you enough and when you have seen more@ and heard more, proceed accordingly. Claud.@If I see any thing to-nigh@t why I should not marry her to-morrow, in the congregation, where I should wed, @here will I shame her. Pedro.@And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join with thee to disgrace  disparage her no farther@ till you are my witne@s@s bea@r it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show  day untowardly turned! Claud.@O mischief strangely thwar@ right well prevented! so will you say@ when you have seen the sequel. Exeunt.   @Are you good men and true @@Verg@.@Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer sal@vation, body and soul. Dog@.@Nay, that were a punishment too good for them, if they should have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the prince's watch. Verg.@Well, give them their charge, neighbo@r Dog@berry. Dog@.@First, who think you the most desartless man to be constablerst Watch.@Hugh Otecake, sir, or George Seacole for they can write and read. Dog@.@Come hither, neighbo@r Seacole. God hath blessed you with a good name to be a well-favo@red man is the gift of fortune but to write and read co@mes by nature. Sec. Watch.@Both which, master constable,~ Dog@.@You have I knew it would be your answer. Well, for your favo@r, sir, why, give God thanks, and make no boast of it and for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no need of such vanity. You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch therefore bear you the lantern. This is your charge you shall comprehend all vagrom men you are to bid any man stand, in the prince's name. Sec. Watch.@How@ if a' will not stand@@ Dog@.@Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go and presently call the rest of the watch together@ and thank God you are rid of a knave. Verg.@If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the prince's subjects. Dog@.@True, and they are to meddle with none but the prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in the streets for, for the watch to babble and to talk@ is most tole@rable@ and not to be endured. @@Watch.@We will rather sleep than talk we know what belongs to a watch. Dog@.@Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman for I cannot see how sleeping should offend only, have a care that your bills be not stolen. Well, you are to call at all the ale-houses, and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.d. Watch.@How@ if they will not@ Dog@.@Why, then, let them alone till they are sober if they make you not then the better answer, you may say@ they are not the men you took them for. Watch.@Well, sir. Dog@.@If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by vir@tue of your office, to be no true man and, for such kind of men,@ the less you meddle or make with them, why, the more is for your honesty.y. Watch.@If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on him @@Dog.@Truly, by your office, you may but@ I think@ they that touch pitch will be defiled the most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is@ to let him show himself what he is@ and steal out of your company. Verg.@You have been always called a merciful man, partner. Dog.@Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who hath any honesty in him. Verg.If you hear a child cry in the night, you must cal@l to the nurse@ and bid her still it. Watch.How@ if the nurse be asleep@ and will not hear us@ Dog@.@Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake her with crying for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes@ will never answer a calf when he bleats. Verg.@'T@is very true. Dog.@This is the end of the charge -you, constable, are to present the prince's own person if you meet the prince in the night, you may stay him. Verg.@Nay, by'r lady, that@ I think@ a' cannot. Dog@.@Five shillings to one on@'t, with any man that knows the statutes, he may stay him marry, not without the prince be willing for, indeed, the watch ought to offend no man and it is an offence to stay a man against his will. Verg.@By'r lady, I think@ it be so. Dog@.@Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night an there by any matter of weight chances, call up me keep your fel@lows' counsels and your own@ and good night. Come, neighbo@r. Watch.@Well, masters, we hear our charge let us go sit here upon the church-bench till two, and then all to bed. Dog@.@One word more, honest neighbo@rs. I pray you, watch about Signior Leonato's door for the wedding being there to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night. Adieu@ be vigitant, I beseech you. Exeunt Dogberry and Verges. Enter  Bora.@What,  stir not. not. Bora.@Conrade, I say! Con@.@Here, man@ I am at thy elbow. Bora.@Mass, and my elbow itched I though@t there would a scab follow. Con.I will owe thee an answer for that and now for@ward with thy tale. Bora.@Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for it drizzles rain and I will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.  Some treason, masters yet stand close. @@Bora.@Therefore know@ I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats. Con@.@Is it possible that any villa@ny should be so dear@ Bora.@Thou shouldst rather ask@ if it were possible any villa@ny should be so rich for when rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will. Con@.@I wonder at it. Bora.@That shows@ thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest@ that the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man. Con@.@Yes, it is apparel. Bora.@I mean, the fashion. Con@.@Y@es, the fashion is the fashion. Bora.@Tush! I may as well say@ the fool@'s the fool. But seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is  know that Deformed a' has been a vile thief this seven year a' goes up and down like a gentleman I remember his name. Bora.@Didst thou not hear somebody@ Con@.@No 't@was the vane on the house. Bora.@Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this fashion is@@ how giddily a' turns about all the hot bloods@ between fourteen and five-and-thirt@y sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers in the ree@ky painting, some@ti@me@ like god Bel's priests in the old church-window, some@time@ like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as massy as his club@@ Con@.@All this I see and I see@ that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man. But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion@@ Bora.@Not so, neither but know@ that I have to-night wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero she leans me out at her mistress' chamber~win@dow, bids me a thousand times good night, -I tell this tale vilely -I should first tell thee@ how the prince, Claudio@ and my master, planted and placed@ and possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable encounter. C@@on.@And thought they@ Margaret was Heroro Bora.@Two of them did, the prince and Claudio but the devil my master knew she was Margaret and partly by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly by my villa@ny, which did confirm any slander that Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged swore he would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning at the temple, and there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night@ and send her home again without a husband. First Watch.@We charge you, in the prince's name, stand! Sec. Watch.@Call up the right master constable. We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth. First Watch.@And one Deformed is one of them I know him@ a' wears a lock. Con@.@Masters, masters,~ Sec. @You@@'ll be made bring Deformed forth, I war@rant you. Con.@ speak we charge you@ let us obey you to go with us. Bora.@We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of these men's bills. Con.@A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we@@'ll obey you. Exeunt.   Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire her to rise. Urs.@I will, lady. Hero.@And bid her co@me hither. Urs.@Well.  I think@ your other rabato were better. Hero.@No, pray thee, good Meg, @@I'll wear this. Marg.@By my troth,@@@ 's not so good and I warrant@ your cousin will say so. Hero.@My cousin@'s a fool, and thou art another@@ I'll wear none but this. Marg.@I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a thought browner and your gown@'s a most rare fa@shion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's gown@ that they praise so. Hero.@O, that exceeds, they say. Marg.By my troth,th, 's but a night-gown in respect of yours cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves, and skirts, round@ underborne with a bluish tinsel but for a fine, quaint, graceful@ and excellent fashion, yours is worth ten o@n't. Hero.@God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is ex@ceedingly  be heavier soon@ by the weight of a man. Hero.@Fie upon thee! art not ashamed@@ Marg.Of what, lady @@of speaking hono@rably @@Is not marriage hono@rable in a beggar@@ Is not your lord hono@r@able without marriage @@I think@ you would have me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband ' and bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, @@I'll offend nobody is there any harm in 'the heavier for a husband' None, I think, an it be the right husband@ and the right wife otherwise 't@is light, and not heavy ask my Lady Beatrice else@ here she co@mes.  BEATRICE. Hero.@Good morrow, coz. Beat.@Good morrow, sweet Hero. Hero.@Why, how now do you speak in the sick tunene Beat.@I am out of all other tune, methinks.  into  ' that goes without a burden do you sing it, and@@ I'll dance it. Beat.@Ye@@  with your heels! then, if your husband have stables enough, you@@'ll see he shall lack no barns. Marg.@O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels. Beat.@'T@is almost five o'clock, cousin 't@is time you were ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill  a hawk, a horse, or a husband@@ Beat.@For the letter that begins them all, H. Marg.Well, and you be not turned Turk, there@'s no more sailing by the star. Beat.@What means the fool, tro@w Marg.Nothing I but God send every one their heart'@@s desire! Hero.@These gloves the count sent m@e they are an excel@lent perfume. Beat.@I am stuffed, cousin@ I cannot smell. Marg.A maid, and stuffed! there@'s goodly catching of cold. Beat.O, God help me! God help me! how long have you professed apprehensionon Marg.Ever since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely @@Beat.@It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your cap. By my troth, I am sick. Marg.Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedic@tus, and lay it to your heart it is the only thing for a qualm. Hero.@There thou prickest her with a thistle. Beat.@Benedictus! why Benedictus@@ you have some mo@ral in this Benedictus. Marg.@Moral@! no, by my troth, I have no moral mean@ing I meant, plain holy-thistle. You may think@ per@chance@ that I think you are in love nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list not to think what I can, nor@ indeed@ I cannot think, if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in lov@e or that you will be in love@ or that you can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man he swore he would never marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats his meat without grudging and how you may be converted@ I know not, but@ methinks@ you look with your eyes as other women do. Beat.@What pace is this that thy tongue keeps@@ Marg@.@Not a false gallop. Re-enter @Madam, withdraw the prince, the count, Signior Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the town, are co@me to fetch you to church. Hero.@Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ur@sula. Exeunt.  house.  Leon.@What would you with me, honest neighbo@r@@ Dog@.@Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you@ that decerns you nearly. Leon.@Brief, I pray you for you see@ it is a busy time with me. Dog.@Marry, this it is, sir. Verg.@Yes, in truth@ it is, sir. Leon.@What is it, my good friends @@Dog@.@Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the mat@ter an old man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt@ as, God help, I would desire they were but, in faith, honest@ as the skin between his brows. Verg.@Yes, I thank Go@d I am as honest as any man liv@ing@ that is an old man@ and no honester than I. Dog@.@Comparisons are odorous  Verges. Leon.@Neighbo@rs, you are tedious. Dog@.@It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the poor duke's officers but@ truly, for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in my heart to be@stow it all of your worship. Leon.@All thy tediousness on me, ah Dog.@Yea, an 't@were a thousand pound more than 't@is for I hear as good exclamation on your worship@ as of any man in the city and though I be but a poor man, I am glad to hear it. Verg.@And so am I. Leon.@I would fain know what you have to say. Verg.@Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your wor@ship's presence, ha@' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina. Dog@.@A good old man, sir he will be talking as they say, When the age is in, the wit is out God help us! it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith, neighbo@r Verges @well, God@'s a good man an two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest soul, i' faith, sir by my troth he is, as ever broke bread but@ God is to be worship@ped all men are not alike alas, good neighbo@r! Leon.Indeed, neighbo@r, he co@mes too short of you. Dog.@Gifts@ that God gives. Leon.@I must leave you. Dog.@One word, sir our watch, sir, have@ indeed@ com@prehended two aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined before your worship. Leon.@Take their examination yourself@ and bring it me I am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you. Dog@.@It shall be suffigance. Leon.@Drink@ some wine ere you go fare you well. Enter a Messenger.@@@@ Mess.My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband. Leon.@@@I'll wait upon them I am  good partner, go, get you to Francis Seaco@le bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol we are now to examination these men. Verg.@And we must do it wisely. Dog.@We will spare for no wit, I warrant you here@'s  drive some of them to a non@come only get the learned writer to set down our excom@municatio@n and meet me at the gaol.    Friar Francis, be brief only to the plain form of marriage, and you shall recount their particular du@ties afterwards. Friar.@You co@me hither, my lord, to marry this lady@. Claud.@No. Leon.@To be married to her@ friar, you co@me to marry her. Friar.@Lady, you co@me hither to be married to this count@. Hero.@I do. Friar.@If either of you know any inward impediment@ why you should not be conjoined, I charge you, on your souls, to utter it. Claud.@Know you any, Hero @@Hero.@None, my lord. Friar.@Know you any, count Leon.I dare make his answer, none. Claud.O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily do, not knowing what they do! Bene.How now! interjections @@Why, then, some be of laughing, as, ah, ha,  Claud.@Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave Will you with free and unconstrained soul Give me this maid, your daughter@ @Leon.@As freely, son, as God did give her me. Claud.@And what have I to give you back, whose worth May counterpoise this rich and precious gift D. Pedro.@Nothing, unless you render her again. Claud.@Sweet prince, you learn me noble thankfulness. There, Leonato, take her back@ again Give not this rotten orange to your friend She's but the sign and semblance of her honor. Behold@ how like a maid she blushes here! O, what authority and show of truth Can cunning sin cover itself withal! Co@mes not that blood@ as modest evidence@ To witness simple virtue@ Would you not swear, All you that see her, that she were a maid, By these exterior shows @@But she is none She knows the heat of a luxurious bed Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty. Leon.@What do you mean, my lordrd Claud.@Not to be m@arried, Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton. Leon.@Dear@ my lord, if you, in your own proof, Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth, And made defeat of her virginity,~ Claud.@I know what you would say if I have known her, You will say@ she did embrace me as a husband, And so extenuate the 'forehand sin No, Leonato, I never tempted her with word too large But, as a brother to his sister, show'd Bashful sincerity@ and comely love. Hero.@And seem'd I ever otherwise to you@ Claud.@Out on thee! Seeming! I will write against it You seem to me as Dian in her orb, As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown But you are more intemperate in your blood Than Venus, or those pamper'@d animals That rage in savage sensuality. Hero.@Is my lord well, that he doth speak so widede Leon.@Sweet prince, why speak not you D. Pedro.@What should I speak @@I stand dishono@r'd, that have gone about To link my dear friend to a common stale. Leon.Are these things spoken, or do I but dream D. John.@Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true. Bene.@This looks not like a nuptial. Hero.@True! O God! Claud.@Leonato, stand I here@ Is this the prince@ is this the prince's brother@ Is this face Hero's@ are our eyes our own Leon.All this is so but what of this, my lord@ Claud.@Let me but move one question to your daughter And, by that fatherly and kindly power That you have in her, bid her answer truly. Leon.@I charge thee do so, as thou art my child. Hero.O, God@ defend me! how am I beset! What kind of catechising call you @To make you answer truly to your name. Hero.@Is it not Hero @@Who can blot that name With any just reproach@@ Claud.@Marry, that can Hero Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue. What man was he talk'd with you yesternight Out at your window@ betwixt twelve and one @@Now, if you are a maid, answer to this. Hero.@I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord. D. Pedro.@Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato, I am sorry you must hear upon mine hono@r, Myself, my brother@ and this grieved count@ Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night@ Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window Who hath@ indeed, most like a liberal villain, Confess'd the vile encounters they have had A thousand times in secret. D.  fie! they are not to be named, my lord, Not to be spoke of There is not chastity enough in language@ Without offence@ to utter them. Thus, pretty lady, I am sorry for thy much misgovernment. Claud.@O Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been, If half thy outward graces had been placed About thy thought@s and counsels of thy heart! But@ fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell, Thou pure impiet@y and impious purity! For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love, And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang, To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm, And never shall it more be gracious. Leon.@Hath no man's dagger here a point for @Why, how now, cousin! wherefore sink you down@  let us go. These things, come thus to light, Smother her spirits up.  and Claudio. @Bene.How doth the lady @@Beat.@Dead, I think. Help, uncle! Hero! why, Hero! Uncle@! Signior Benedick@!  take not away thy heavy hand. Death is the fairest cover for her shame@ That may be wish'd for. Beat.@How now, cousin Hero@! @Friar.Have comfort, lady. Leon.Dost thou look up @@Friar.@Yea, wh@erefore should she notot Leon.@Wherefore! Why, doth not every earthly thing Cry shame upon her @@Could she here deny The story that is printed in her blood @@Do not live, Hero do not ope thine eyes For, did I think thou would@st not quickly die, Thought I@ thy spirits were stronger than thy shames, Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches, Strike at thy life. Griev@ed I, I had but one@ Chid I for that at frugal nature's frame@ O, one too much@ by thee! Why had I one@@ Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes @@Why had I not@ with charitable hand@ Took up a beggar's issue at my gates, Who smirch'd thus@ and mired with infamy, I might have  it is mine@ This shame derives itself from  mine@ and mine I loved@ and mine I praised@ And mine that I was proud on, mine so muc@h That I myself was to myself not mine, Valuing of her,-why, she, O, she@ is fallen Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea Hath drops too few to wash her clean again And salt too little@ which may season give To her foul-tainted flesh! Bene.@Sir, sir, be patient. For my part, I am so attired in wonder, I know not what to say, Beat.@O, on my soul, my cousin is belied! Bene.@Lady, were you her bedfellow last nightht Beat.@No, truly not although, until last night, I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow. Leon.@Confirm'@d, confirm'd! O, that is stronger made@ Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron! Would the two princes lie@, and Claudio lie@, Who loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness, Wash'd it with tears@ Hence from her! let her die. Friar.Hear me a little for I have only been Silent so lon@g and given way unto This course of fortune.... By noting of the lady I have mark'd A thousand blushing apparitions To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames In angel whiteness beat away those blushes And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire, To burn the errors that these princes hold Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool Trust not my reading@ nor my observations, Which with experimental seal doth warrant The teno@r of my book trust not my age, My reverence, calling, nor divinity, If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here Under some biting error. Leon.Friar, it cannot be. Thou seest@ that all the grace that she hath left@ Is@ that she will not add to her damnation A sin of perjury she not denies it Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse That which appears in proper nakedne@ss Friar.Lady, what man is he you are accused of@ Hero.@They know@ that do accuse me I know none If I know more of any man alive@ Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant, Let all my sins lack mercy!@ O my father, Prove you that any man with me conversed At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight Maintain'd the change of words with any creature, Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death! Friar.@There is some strange misprision in the princes. Bene.@Two of them have the very bent of hono@r And if their wisdoms be misled in this, The practice of it lives in John the bastard, Whose spirits toil in frame of villa@nies. Leon.@I know not. If they speak but truth of her, These hands shall tear her if they wrong her hono@r, The proudest of them shall well hear of it. Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine, Nor age so eat up my invention, Nor fortune made such havoc@ of my means, Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends, But they shall find, awaked in such a kind, Both strength of limb@ and policy of mind, Ability in means@ and choice of friends, To quit me of them throughly. Friar.@Pause a@while, And let my counsel sway you in this case. Your daughter here the princes left for dead Let her a@while be secretly kept in, And publish it@ that she is dead indeed Maintain a mourning ostentation And on your family's old monument Hang mournful epitaphs@ and do all rites That appertain unto a burial. Leon.@What shall become of this@ what will this do@ Friar.@Marry, this@ well carried@ shall on her behalf Change slander to remorse that is some good But not for that@ dream I on this strange course, But on this travail@ look for greater birth. She dying, as it must be so maintain'd, Upon the instant that she was accused, Shall be lamented, pitied and excused@ Of every hearer for it so falls out@ That what we have@ we prize not to the worth@ Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost, Why, then we rack the value, then we fi@nd The virtue@ that possession would not show us Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio When he shall hear she died upon his words, The idea of her life shall sweetly creep Into his study of imagination, And every lovely organ of her life Shall co@me apparell'@d in more precious habit, More moving@-delicate@ and full of life, Into the eye and prospect of his soul, Than when she lived indeed then shall he mourn, If ever love had interest in his liver, And wish he had not so accused her, No, though he thought his accusation true. Let this be so, and doubt not but success Will fashion the event in better shape Than I can lay it down in likelihood. But if all aim but this be levell'd false, The supposition of the lady's death Will quench the wonder of her infamy And@ if it sort not well, you may conceal her, As best befits her wounded reputation, In some reclusive and religious life, Out of all eyes, tongues, minds@ and injuries. Bene.@Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you And though@ you know@ my inwardness and love Is very much unto the prince and Claudio, Yet, by mine hono@r, I will deal in this As secretly@ and justly@ as your soul Should with your body. Leon.Being that I flow in grief, The smallest twine may lead me. Friar.@'Tis well consented presently away For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure. Co@me, lady, die to live this wedding-day@ Perhap@s is but prolong'd have patience@ and en@dure. Exeunt  Beatrice, have you wept all this while@@ Beat.@Yea, and I will weep a while longer. Bene.@I will not desire that. Beat.@You have no reason@ I do it freely. Bene.@Surely@ I do believe your fair cousin is wronged. Beat.@Ah, how much might the man deserve of me@ that would right her! Bene.@Is there any way to show such @friendship@@ Beat.@A very even way, but no such friend. Bene.@May a man do itit Beat.@It is a man's office, but not yours. Bene.@I do love nothing in the world so well as you isis not that strange@@ Beat.@As strange as the thing I know not. It were as possible for me to say@ I loved nothing so well as you but believe me not and yet I lie not I confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin. Bene.@By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me. Beat.@Do not swear@@@@@@, and eat it. Bene.@I will swear by it@ that you love me and I will make him eat it@ that says@ I love not you. Beat. Will you not eat your word @@Bene.@With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest@ I love thee. Beat.@Why, then, God forgive me! Bene.@What offence, sweet Beatrice@ Beat.@You have stayed me in a happy hour I was about to protest@ I loved you. Bene.@And do it with all thy heart. Beat.I love you with so much of my heart@ that none is left to protest. Bene.@Co@me, bid me do any thing for thee. Beat.@Kill Claudio. Bene.@Ha! not for the wide world. Beat.@You kill me to deny it. Farewell. Bene.Tarry, sweet Beatrice. Beat.@I am gone, though I am here there is no love in you @nay, I pray you, let me go. Bene.@Beatrice,~ Beat.@In faith, I will go. Bene.@We@@'ll be friends first. Beat.@You dare easier be friends with me@ than fight with mine enemy. Bene.@Is Claudio thine enemy@ Beat.@Is he not approved in the height a, villain, that hath slandered, scorned, dishono@red my kinswoman@@ O that I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they co@me to take hands and then, with public accusation, un@covered slander, unmitigated ranco@r,-O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart in the market-place. Bene.Hear me, Beatrice,~ Beat.@Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying! Bene.@Nay, but, Beatrice,~ Beat.Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone. Bene.@Beat@~ Beat.Princes@ and counties! Surely, a princely testimony, a goodly  a sweet gallant, surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I had any friend would be a man for my sake! But manhood is melted into courtesies, valo@r into compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and trim ones too he is now a@ valiant as Hercules@ that only tells a li@e and swears it. I cannot be a man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving. Bene.@Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee. Beat.@Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it. Bene.@Think you in your soul@ the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero @@Beat.@Yea, as sure as I have a though@t or a soul. Bene.@Enough, I am engaged@ I will challenge him. I will kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand, Clau@dio shall render me a dear account. As you hear of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your cousin I must say@ she is dead and so, farewell.   and Sexton, in  Watch, with @Is our whole dissembly appeareded Verg.@O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton. Sex@@@.@Which be the malefactors@ Dog@.@Marry, that am I@ and my partner. Verg.@Nay, that@'s certain we have the exhibition to examine. Sex@@@.@But which are the offenders that are to be exa@mined@@ let them come before master constable. Dog@.@Yea, marry, let them co@me before me. What is your name, friend@@ Bora.@Borachio. Dog@.@Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah@ Con@.@I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Con@rade. Dog@.@Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do you serve God Con. Bora.@Yea, sir, we hope. Dog@.@Write down, that they hope they serve God @and write God first for God defend but God should go before such villains! M@asters, it is proved already that you are little better than false knaves and it will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer you for yourselves@@ Con@.@Marry, sir, we say@ we are none. Dog@.@A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you but I will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah a word in your ear@ sir, I say to you, it is thought you are false knaves. Bora.@Sir, I say to you@ we are none. Dog.@Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a tale. Have you writ down, that they are none @@Sex@@@.@Master constable, you go not the way to exa@mine you must call forth the watch that are their ac@cusers. Dog@.@Yea, marry, that@'s the eftest way. Let the watch come forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's name, accuse these men. First Watch.@This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's brother, was a villain. @Dog.@Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat perjury, to call a prince's brother vil@lain. Bora.@Master constable,@~ Dog.Pray thee, fellow, peace I do not like thy look, I promise thee. Sex@@@.@What heard you him say else Sec. Watch.@Marry, that he had received @@thousand du@cats of Don John@ for accusing the Lady Hero wrong@fully. Dog@.@Flat burglary@ as ever was committed. Verg@.Yea, by @@@@mass, that it is. Sex@@@@.@What else, fellow First Watch.@And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to disgrace Hero before the whole assembly, and not m@arry her. Dog@.@O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlast@ing redemption for this. Sex@@@.@What  Watch.This is all. Sex@@@.@And this is more, masters, than you can deny. Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner refused, and upon the grief of this@ suddenly died. Master constable, let these men be bound, and brought to Leonato's I will go before@ and show him their examination.ation. Dog@.@Come, let them be opinioned. Verg.Let them be in the @Off, coxcomb! Dog@.@God's my life, where@'s the sexton@ let him write down the prince's officer@ coxcomb. Co@me, bind them. Thou naughty varlet! Con@.@Away! you are an ass, you are an ass. Dog@.@Dost thou not suspect my place@ dost thou not suspect my years @@O that he were here to write me down @an ass! But, masters, remember@ that I am an ass though it be not written down, yet forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of piety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness. I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer, and, which is more, a@ householder, and, which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to and a rich fellow enough, go to and a fellow that hath had losses, and one that hath two gowns@ and@ every thing handsome about him. Bring him away. @O that I had been writ down an   house.  you go on thus, you will kill yourself And 'tis not wisdom@ thus to second grief Against yourself. Leon.I pray thee, cease thy counsel, Which falls into mine ears as profitless As water in a sieve give not me counsel Nor let no comforter delight mine ear@ But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine. Bring me a father@ that so loved his child, Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine, And bid him speak of patience Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine@ And let it answer every strain for strain, As thus for thus@ and such a grief for such, In every lineament, branch, shape, and form If such a one will smile@ and stroke his beard, Bid@ sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan, Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk With candle-wasters bring him yet to me, And I of him will gather patience. But there is no such man for, brother, men Can counsel@ and speak comfort to that grief Which they themselves not feel but, tasting it, Their counsel turns to passion, which before Would give preceptial medicine to rage, Fetter strong madness in a silken thread, Charm ache with air@ and agony with words No, no 'tis all men's office to speak patience To those that wring under the load of sorrow, But no man's virtue@ nor sufficiency@ To be so moral@ when he shall endure The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel My griefs cry louder than advertisement. @Ant.@Therein do men from children nothing differ. Leon.@I pray thee, peace. I will be flesh and blood For there was never yet philosopher@ That could endure the toothache patiently, However they have writ the style of gods@ And made a push at chance and sufferance. Ant.Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself Make those@ that do offend you@ suffer too. Leon.There thou speak'st reason nay, I will do so. My soul doth tell me@ Hero is belied And that shall Claudio know@ so shall the prince@ And all of them@ that thus dishono@r her.  and @Good den, good den. Claud.@Good day to both of you. Leon.@Hear you, my  have some haste, Leonato. Leon.Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord @Are you so hasty now@ well, all is one. Pedro.Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man. Ant.@If he could right himself with quarrelling, Some of us would lie low. Claud.@Who wrongs him@@ @Leon.@Marry, thou dost wrong me@ thou dissembler, thou ~Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword@ I fear thee not. Claud.@Marry, beshrew my hand, If it should give your age such cause of fear In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword. Leon.@Tush, tush, ma@n never fleer and jest at me I speak not like a dotard@ nor a fool, As@ under privilege of age@ to brag What I have done being young, or what would do@ Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head, Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me@ That I am forced to lay my reverence by And, with grey hair@s and bruise of many days, Do challenge thee to trial of a man. I say@ thou hast belied mine innocent child@ Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart, And she lies buried with her ancestors O, in a tomb where never scandal slept, Save this of hers, framed by thy villa@ny! Claud.@My  Leon.Thine, Claudio thine, I  say not right, old man. Leon.@My lord, my lord, I'll prove it on his body, if he dare, Despite his nice fence@ and his active practice, His May of youth@ and bloom of lustihood. Claud.@Away! I will not have to do with you. Leon.@Canst thou so daff me@ Thou hast kill'd my child If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man. Ant.He shall kill two of us, and men indeed But that's no matter let him kill one first@ Win me and wear me@ let him answer me. Co@me, follow me, boy co@me, sir boy, come, follow me Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will. Leon.@Brother,~ Ant.Content yourself. God knows@ I loved my niece And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains, That dare as well answer a man indeed@ As I dare take a serpent by the tongue Boys, apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops! Leon.@Brother Anthony,~ Ant.@Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea, And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,~Scrambling, out-facing, fashion-mong@@ing boys, That lie@ and cog@ and flout, deprav@e and slander, Go antic@ly,@@@@ show outward hideousness, And speak off half a dozen dangerous words, How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst@ And this is all. Leon.@But, brother Anthony,~ Ant.Co@me, 'tis no matter Do not you meddle@ let me deal in this. D. Pedro.Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience. My heart is sorry for your daughter's death But, on my hono@r, she was charged with nothing But what was true@ and very full of proof. Leon.@My lord, my lord,~  will not hear you. Leon.@No@ Come, brother@ away! I will be heard. Ant.And shall, or some of us will smart for it.  see here co@mes the man we went to seek. Claud.@Now, signior, what news@ Bene.@Good day, my lord. D. Pedro.@Welcome, signior you are almost come to part almost a fray. Claud.@We had like to have had our two noses snapped off with two old men without teeth. D. Pedro.@Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou@ Had we fought, I doubt@ we should have been too young for them. Bene.@In a false quarrel there is no true valo@r. I came to seek you both. Claud.@We have been up and down to seek thee for we are high-proof melancholy@ and would fain have it beaten away. Wilt thou use thy wit@@ Bene.@It is in my scabbard shall I draw it  Pedro.@Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side@@ Claud.@Never any did so, though very many have been beside their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the min@strels draw, to pleasure us. D. Pedro.@As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou sick, or angry@ Claud.@What, courage, man! What@ though care killed a cat, thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care. Bene.@Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you charge it against me. I pray you@ choose another subject. Claud.@Nay, then, give him another staff this last was broke cross. D. Pedro.@By this light, he changes more and more I think@ he be angry indeed. Claud.@If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle. Bene.@Shall I speak a word in your ear @@Claud.@God bless me from a  are a villain @I jest not @I will make it good how you dare, with what you dare, and when you dare. Do me right, or I will protest your cowardice. You have killed a sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear from you. Claud.@Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer. D. Pedro.@What, a feast@, a feast@@ Claud.I' faith, I thank him he hath bid me to a calf's head and a capon the which if I do not carve most curi@ously, say@ my knife@'s naught. Shall I not find a wood@cock too@ Bene.Sir, your wit ambles well it goes easily. D. Pedro.@@@I'll tell thee@ how Beatrice praised thy wit the other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit  she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,'  I, 'a great wit ' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross  'Nay,' said I, 'a good  'Just,' said she, 'it hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I,  ' 'Certain,' said she,'a wise 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues ' 'That I believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on Mon@day night,  there@'s a double tongue@ there@'s  Thus did she, an hour, together, trans@shape thy particular virtues yet@ at last@ she concluded with a sigh, thou wast the properest man in Italy. Claud.@For the which she wept heartily@ and said@ she cared not. Pedro.Yea, that she did but yet, for all that, an if she did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly the old man's daughter told us all. Claud.@All, all and, moreover, God saw him when he was hid in the garden. D. Pedro.@But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on the sensible Benedick's headad Claud.@Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick@ the married man' Bene.@Fare you well, boy you know my mind. I will leave you now to your gossip@like humo@r you break jests as braggards do their blades, which@ God be thanked, hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank you I must discontinue your company your brother@ the bastard@ is fled from Messina you have@ among you@ killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lack@beard there, he and I shall meet and, till then, peace be with him. Exit. @He is in earnest. Claud.@In most profound earnest and, @@I'll warrant you, for the love of Beatrice. D. Pedro.@And hath challenged thee. Claud.@Most sincerely. D. Pedro.@What a pretty thing man is@ when he goes in his doublet and hose@ and leaves off his  Claud.@He is then a giant to an ape but then is an ape a doctor to such a man. D. Pedro.But, soft you, let me be pluck up, my heart, and be sad. Did he not say, my brother was  weigh more reasons in her balance nay, an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to. D. Pedro.@How now@ two of my brother's men bound! Bo@rachio@ one! Claud.@Hearken after their offence, my lord. D. Pedro.@Officers, what offence have these men done @@Dog@.@Marry, sir, they have committed false report moreover, they have spoken untruths secondarily, they are slanders sixth and lastly, they have belied a lady thirdly, they have verified unjust things and, to conclude, they are lying knaves. D.  I ask thee what they have done thirdly, I ask thee what@'s their offence sixth and lastly, why they are committed and, to conclude, what you lay to their charge. Claud.@Rightly reasoned, and in his own division and, by my troth, there@'s one meaning well suited. D. Pedro.@Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus bound to your answer@ this learned constable is too cunning to be understood what@'s your offence@ Bora.@Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have deceived even your very eyes what your wisdoms could not disco@ver, these shallow fools have brought to light who@ in the night@ overheard me confessing to this man@ how Don John your brother incensed me to slander the Lady Hero, how you were brought into the orchard@ and saw me court Mar@garet in Hero's garments, how you disgraced her, when you should marry her my villa@ny they have upon record which I had rather seal with my death@ than repeat over to my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false accusation and, briefly, I desire nothing but the re@ward of a villain. Pedro.@Runs not this speech like iron through your blood @@Claud.@I have drunk poison@ whiles he utter'd it. D. Pedro.@But did my brother set thee on to this @@Bora.@Yea, and paid me richly for the practice of it. D. Pedro.He is composed and framed of treachery @And fled he is upon this villa@ny. Claud.@Sweet Hero! now thy image doth appear In the rare semblance that I loved it first. Dog@.@Come, bring away the plaintiffs by this time@ our sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an ass. Verg.@Here, here co@mes master Signior Leonato, and the Sexton too. Re-enter  Sexton. Leon.Which is the villain@ let me see his eyes, That, when I note another man like him, I may avoid him which of these is he@@ Bora.@If you would know your wronger, look on me. Leon.@Art thou the slave@ that with thy breat@h hast kill'd Mine innocent child@@ Bora.@Yea, even I alone. Leon.No, not so, villain thou beliest thyself Here stand a pair of hono@rable men@ A third is fled, that had a hand in it. I thank you, princes, for my daughter's death Record it with your high and worthy deeds 'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it. Claud.@I know not how to pray your patience@ Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself Impose me to what penance your invention Can lay upon my sin yet sinn'd I not@ But in mistaking. Pedro.@By my soul, nor I And yet, to satisfy this good old man, I would bend under any heavy weight That he'll enjoin me to. Leon.@I cannot bid you bid my daughter live@ That were impossible but, I pray you both, Possess the people in Messina here How innocent she died and@ if your love Can labo@r ought in sad invention, Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb@ And sing it to her bones, sing it to-night To-morrow morning co@me you to my house, And since you could not be my son-in-law, Be yet my nephew my brother hath a daughter, Almost the copy of my child that's dead, And she alone is heir to both of us Give her the right you should have given heir cousin, And so dies my revenge. Claud.@@O noble sir, Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me! I do embrace your offer and dispose For henceforth of poor Claudio. Leon.@To-morrow then I will expect your coming To-night I take my leave. This naughty man Shall face to face be brought to Margaret, Who@ I believe@ was pack'd in all this wrong, Hired to it by your brother. Bora.@No, by my soul, she was not, Nor knew not what she did@ when she spoke to me, But always hath been just and virtuous@ In any thing that I do know by her. Dog@.@Moreover, sir, which@ indeed@ is not under white and black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call me ass I beseech you, let it be remembered in his punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of one Deformed they say@ he wears a key in his ear@ and a lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's name, the which he hath used so long@ and never paid@ that now men grow hard-hearted@ and will lend nothing for God's sake pray you, examine him upon that point. Leon.@I thank thee for thy care and honest pains. Dog@.@Your worship speaks like a most thankful and reverend youth and I praise God for you. Leon.@There@'s for thy pains. Dog@.@God save the foundation! Leon.Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee. Dog.@I leave an arrant knave with your worship which I beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the example of others. God keep your worship! I wish your worship well God restore you to health! I humbly give you leave to depart and if a merry meeting may be wished, God pro@hibit it! Come, @Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell. Ant.@Farewell, my lords we look for you to-morrow. D. Pedro.@We will not fail. Claud.@To-night I'll mourn with Hero. Leon. Bring you these fellows on. We'll talk with Margaret, How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.  LEONATO'S garden.  meeting. Bene.@Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands@ by helping me to the speech of Beatrice. Marg.@Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty Bene.In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living shall come over it for, in most comely truth, thou deser@vest it. Marg.To have no man co@me over me! why, shall I al@ways keep below stairs @@Bene.@Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth@ it catches. Marg.And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit, but hurt not. Bene.@A most manly wit, Margaret@ it will not hurt a woman and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice I give thee the bucklers. Marg.@Give us the swords@ we have bucklers of our own. Bene.@If you use the@m, Margaret, you must put in the pikes with a vice and they are dangerous weapons for maids. Marg.Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who@ I think@ hath  therefore will  The  And knows me, and knows  in singing but in loving, Leander the good swimmer, Troilus the first employer of pandars, and a whole book@ful@ of these quondam carpet-m@ongers, whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a blank verse, why, they were never so truly turned over and over@ as my poor self@ in love. Marry, I cannot show it in rhyme I have tried I can find out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby,' an innocent rhyme for 'scorn,' 'horn,' a hard rhyme  bab@bling rhyme very ominous endings no, I was not born under a rhyming planet, nor I cannot woo in festival terms. Enter BEATRICE. Sweet Beatrice, would@st thou come when I called theet.Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me. Bene.@O, stay but till then! Beat.'Then' is spoken fare you well now @and yet, ere I go, let me go with that I came@@@@@ which is, with knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio. Bene.Only foul words and thereupon I will kiss  words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but foul breath, and foul breath is noisome therefore I will depart unkissed. Bene.@Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense, so forcible is thy wit. But@ I must tell thee plainly, Clau@dio undergoes my challenge and either I must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me@ for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me @Beat.@For them all together which maintained so poli@tic a state of evil@ that they will not admit any good part to intermingle with them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love for me@  a good epithet! I do suffer love@ in@deed, for I love thee against my will. Beat.@In spite of your heart, I think alas, poor heart! If you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for yours for I will never love that which my friend hates. Bene.@Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably. Beat.@It appears not in this confession there@'s not one wise man among twenty@ that will praise himself. Bene.@An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in the time of good neighbo@rs. If a man do not erect in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live no longer in monu@ment@ than the bell rings@ and the widow weeps. Beat.@And how long is that, think youou Bene.@Question@ why, an hour in clamo@r@ and a quarter in r@heum therefore is it most expedient for the wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his own virtues, as I am to myself. So much for praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is praise@worth@y and now tell me, how doth your cousin Beat. Bene.And how do you @@Beat.@Very ill too. Bene.@Serve God, love me@ and mend. There will I leave you too, for here co@mes one in haste. Enter URSULA. Urs.@Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder@'s old coil at home it is proved my Lady Hero hath been falsely accused, the prince and Claudio mightily abused and Don John is the author of all, who is fled and gone. Will you co@me presently@@ Beat.@Will you go hear this news, signior@ Bene.@I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap@ and be bu@ried in thy eyes and@ moreover@ I will go with thee to thy   Claud.@Is this the monument of Leonato@@ A Lord.@It is, my lord.  to death by slanderous tongues Was the Hero that here lies Death, in guerdon of her @wrongs, Gives herfame which never dies. So the life@ that died with shame@ Lives in death  Hang thou there upon the tomb,  when I am dumb. Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn. S@ON@G. Pardon, goddess of the night,  knight For the whi of woe, Round about her tomb they go. Midnight, assist our moan  and groan,  yawn@ and yield your dead, Till death be uttered, Heavily, heavily. Claud.Now, unto thy bones good night! Yearly will I do this rite. D. Pedro.@Good morrow, masters put your torches out The wolves have prey'd and@ look, the gentle day, Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey. Thanks to you all, and leave us fare you well. Claud.@Good morrow, masters each his several way. Pedro. Co@me, let us hence, and put on other weeds And then to Leonato's we will go. Claud.@And@ Hyme@n now with luckier issue speed's Than this@ for whom we render'd up this woe.  LEONATO'S house.  Friar.@Did I not tell you she was innocent @@Leon.@So are the prince and Claudio, who accused her@ Upon the error that you heard debated But Margaret was in some fault for this, Although against her will, as it appears In the true course of all the question. @Ant.@Well, I am glad that all things sort so well. Bene.@And so am I, being else by faith enforced To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it. Leon.@Well, daughter, and you gentlewomen all, Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves, And@ when I send for you, co@me hither  The prince and Claudio promised by this hour To visit me. You know your office, brother You must be father to your brother's daughter, And give her to young  Ant.@Which I will do with confirm'@d countenance. Bene.@Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think. Friar.@To do what, signior@@ Bene.@To bind me, or undo me@ one of them. Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior, Your niece regards me with an eye of favo@r. Leon.@That eye my daughter lent her 'tis most true. Bene.@And I do with an eye of love requite her. Leon.@The sight whereof@ I thin@k you had from me, From Claudio@ and the prince but what's your will@ Bene.@Your answer, sir, is enigmatical But, for my will, my will is@ your good will May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd In the state of hono@rable marriage In which, good friar, I shall desire your help. Leon.My heart is with your liking. Friar.@And my help. Here comes the prince@ and Claudio. Enter DON  Pedro.@Good morrow to this fair assembly. Leon.@Good morrow, prince good morrow, Claudio We here attend you. Are you yet determined To-day to marry with my brother's daughter@ Claud.@I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope. Leon.@Call her forth, brother@ here's the friar ready.  morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter, That you have such a February face, So full of frost, of storm@ and cloudine@s@s Claud.@I think@ he thinks upon the savage bull. Tush, fear not, man@ we'll tip thy horns with gold@ And all Europa shall rejoice at thee, As once Europa did at lusty Jove, When he would play the noble beast in love. Bene.@Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow, And got a calf@ in that same noble feat@ Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.  is the lady I must seize upon@@ Ant.@This same is she, and I do give you her. Claud.@Why, then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face. Leon.@No, that you shall not, till you take her hand Before this fria@r and swear to marry her. Claud.@Give me your hand before this holy friar, I am your husband, if you like of me. Hero.@And when I lived, I was your other wife Unmasking. And when you loved, you were my other husband. Claud.@Another Hero@! Hero.Nothing certain@er One Hero died defiled, but I do live, And@ surely as I live, I am a maid. D. Pedro.The former Hero! Hero@ that is dead! Leon.She died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived. Friar.@All this amazement can I qualify When@ after that the holy rites are ended, I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death Meantime let wonder seem familiar, And to the chapel let us presently. Bene.@Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice @@ to that name@@@@@.@ What is your will@@ Bene.@Do not you love me Beat.Why, no@ no more than reason. Bene.@Why, then your uncl@e and the prince@ and Claudio@ Have been deceived@@@@ they swore@ you did. Beat.@Do not you love meme Bene.@Troth, no@ no more than reason. Beat.@Why, then my cousin@ Margaret@ and Ursula@ Are much deceived for they did swear@ you did. Bene.@They swore@ that you were almost sick for me. Beat.@They swore@ that you were well-nigh dead for me. Bene.@'Tis no such matter. Then@ you do not love me@ @Beat.@No, truly, but in friendly recompense. Leon.Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman. Claud.@And I'll be sworn upon't@ that he loves her For here's a paper@ written in his hand, A halting sonnet of his own pure brain, Fashion'd to Beatrice. Hero.@And here's another@ Writ in my cousin's hand, stolen from her pocket, Containing her affection unto Benedick. Bene.@A miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts. Co@me, I will have thee but, by this light, I take thee for pity. Beat.I would not deny you @but, by this good day, I yield upon great persuasion and@ partly@ to save your life, for I was told@ you were in a consumption. Bene.@Peace! I will stop your mouth.  D. Pedro.@How dost thou, Benedick, the married man@ Bene.@@@I'll tell thee what, prince a college of wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humor. Dost thou think@ I care for a satire@ or an epigram @@No if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any purpose that the world can say against it and therefore never flout at me for what I have said against it for man is a giddy thing, and this is my conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to have beaten thee but@ in that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruised@ and love my cousin. Claud.@I had well hoped@ thou wouldst have denied Bea@trice, that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single life, to make thee a double-dealer which, out of question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look exceedingly narrowly to thee. Bene.@Come, come, we are friends let@'s have a dance ere we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts@ and our wives' heels. Leon.We'll have dancing afterward. Bene.First, of my word therefore@ play, music. Prince, thou art sad get thee a wife, get thee a wife there is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn. Enter a Messenger. Mess.My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight, And brought with armed men back to Messina. Bene.Think not on him till to-morrow I@@'ll devise thee brave punishments for him. Strike up, pipers.  fame, that all hunt after in their lives, Live register'd upon our brazen tomb@s And then grace us in the disgrace of death When, spite of cormorant devouring Time, The endeavour of this present breath may buy That honour@ which shall bate his scythe's keen edge@ And make us heirs of all eternity. Therefore, brave conquerors,--for so you are, That war against your own affections@ And the huge army of the world's desires,-~Our late edict shall strongly stand in force Navarre shall be th@e wonder of the world Our court shall be a little Academe, Still and contemplative in living art. You three, Biron, Dumain, and Longaville, Have sworn for three years' term to live with me@ My fellow-scholars@ and to keep those statutes@ That are recorded in this schedule here Your oaths are pass'd and now subscribe your names, That his own hand may strike his honour down@ That violates the smallest branch herein If you are arm'd to do@ as sworn to do, Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too. Long.@I am resolved 'tis but a three years' fast The mind shall banquet, though the body pine Fat paunches have lean pates, and dainty bits Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.w@My loving lord, Dumain is mortified The grosser manner of these world's delights He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die With all these living in philosophy.  but say their protestation over@ So much, dear liege, I have already sworn, That is, to live and study here three years. But there are other strict observances As, not to see a woman in that term, Which@ I hope well@ is not enrolled there And@ one day in a week to touch no food And but one meal on every day beside, The which@ I hope@ is not enrolled there And then, to sleep but three hours in the night, And not be seen to wink of all the day-~When I was wont to think no harm all night@ And make a dark night too of half the day-~Which@ I hope well@ is not enrolled there@ O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep, Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep! King.@Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these. Biron.Let me say@ no, my liege, an if you please I only swore@ to study with your grace@ And stay here in your court for three years' space. Long.@You swore to that, Biron, and to the rest. Biron.By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest. What is the end of study @@let me know. King.Why, that to know, which else we should not know. Biron.Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense King.Ay, that is study's god-like recompense. Biron.Co@me on, then@ I will swear to study so, To know the thing I am forbid to know As thus,--to study where I well may dine, When I to feast expressly am forbid Or@ study where to meet some mistress fine, When mistresses from common sense are hid Or, having sworn too hard a keeping oath, Study to break it@ and not break my troth. If study's gain be thus@ and this be so, Study knows that@ which yet it doth not know Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say@ no. King.These be the stops that hinder study quite@ And train our intellects to vain delight. Biron.Why, all delights are vain but that most vain, Which@ with pain purchased@ doth inherit pain As, painfully to pore upon a book@ To seek the light of truth while truth the while Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look Light@ seeking light@ doth light of light beguile So, ere you find where light in darkness lies, Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes. Study me how to please the eye indee@d By fixing it upon a fairer eye, Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed@ And give him light that it was blinded by. Study is like the heaven's glorious sun@ That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks Small have continual plodders ever won@ Save base authority from others' books. These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights@ That give a name to every fixed star@ Have no more profit of their shining nights@ Than those that walk and wot not what they are. Too much to know@ is@ to know nought but fame And every godfather can give a name. @King.@How well he's read, to reason against reading! Dum.@Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding! Long.@He weeds the corn@ and still lets grow the weeding. Biron.The spring is near@ when green geese are a-breeding. Dum.@How follows that@ Biron.Fit in his place and time. Dum.@In reason nothing. Biron.Something then in rhyme. King.@Biron is like an envious sneaping frost, That bites the first-born infants of the spring. Biron.Well, say I am why should proud summer boast@ Before the birds have any cause to sing Why should I joy in any abortive birth @@At Christmas I no more desire a rose@ Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth But like of each thing@ that in season grows. So you, to study now it is too late, Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate. King.Well, sit you out go home, Biron adieu. Biron.No, my good lord I have sworn to stay with you And@ though I have for barbarism spoke more@ Than for that angel knowledge you can say, Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore@ And bide the penance of each three years' day. Give me the paper@ let me read the same And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name. King.How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!  no   this been proclaimed@ Long.@Four days ago. Biron.Let's see the  devised this penalty@@ Long.@Marry, that did I. Biron.Sweet @lord, and why @@Long.@To fright them hence with that dread penalty. Biron.A dangerous law against gentility! Reads'Item, If any man be seen to talk with a woman within the term of three years, he shall endure such public shame as the rest of the court  This article, my liege, yourself must break For@ well you know@ here comes in embassy The French king's daughter@ with yourself to speak-~A maid of grace@ and complete majesty-~About surrender up of Aquitaine To her decrepit, sick@ and bed@rid father Therefore this article is made in vain, Or vainly comes the admired princess hither. King.@What say you, lords@ why, this was quite forgot. Biron.So study evermore is overshot While it doth study to have what it would@ It doth forget to do the thing it should, And when it hath the thing it hunteth most, 'Tis won@ as towns with fire, so won, so lost. King.We must@ of force@ dispense with this decree She must lie here on mere necessity. Biron.Necessity will make us@@@@ forsworn Three thousand times within this three years' space For every man with his affects is born, Not by might mastered@ but by special grace If I break faith, this word shall speak for me@ I am forsworn on 'mere necessity.' So to the laws at large I write my name  he@ that breaks them in the least degree@ Stands in attainder of eternal shame Suggestions are to other@@ as to me But@ I believe, although I seem so loath, I am the last that will last keep his oath. But is there no quick recreation granted King.Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted With a refined traveller of Spain A man in all the world's new fashion planted, That hath a mint of phrases in his brain One@ whom the music of his own vain tongue Doth ravish@ like enchanting harmony A man of complements, whom right and wrong Have chose as umpire of their mutiny This child of fancy, that Armado hight, For interim to our studies@ shall relate@ In high-born words@ the worth of many a knight From tawny Spain@ lost in the world's debate. How you delight, my lords, I @know not, I But, I protest, I love to hear him lie@ And I will use him for my minstrelsy. Biron.Armado is a most illustrious wight, A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight. Long.@Costard the swain@ and he@ shall be our sport And@ so to study, three years is but short. Enter DULL  Dull.@Which is the duke's own person@ Biron.This, fellow what would@st@ Dull.@I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his grace's tharborough but I would see his own person in flesh and blood. Biron.This is he. Dull.Signior Arme--Arme--commends you. There's villa@ny abroad this letter will tell you more. Cost.@Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me. King.A letter from the magnificent Armado. Biron.How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words. Long.@A high hope for a low heaven@ God grant us patience! Biron.To hear@ or forbear laughing@ Long.@To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately or to forbear both. Biron.Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to climb in the merriness. Cost.@The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta. The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner. Biron.In what manner@ Cost.@In manner and form following, sir all those three I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with her upon the form, and taken following her into the park which, put together, is@ in manner and form following. Now, sir, for the manner,--it is the manner of a man to speak to a woman for the form,-~in some form. Biron.For the following, sir@ Cost.@As it shall follow in my correction and God defend the right! King.Will you hear this letter with attention@@ Biron.As we would hear an oracle. Cost.@Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.  the welkin's  sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god, and body's @Not a word of Costard yet. @It may be so but if he say it is so, he is, in telling true, but but so. @Peace! Cost.@@@Be to me@ and every man that dares not fight! King.No t.Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.  this@ Cost.@Sir, I confess the wench. King.Did you hear the proclamation@ Cost.@I do confess much of the hearing it@ but little of the marking of it. King.@It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment, to be taken with a wench. Cost.@I was taken with none, sir I was taken with a dam@sel. King.@Well, it was proclaimed 'dam@sel.' Cost.@This was no dam@sel, neither, sir she was a virgin. King.It is so varied, too for it was proclaimed 'virgin.' Cost.@If it were, I deny her virginity I was taken with a maid. King.@This maid will not serve your turn, sir. Cost.@This maid will serve my turn, sir. King.Sir, I will pronounce your sentence you shall fast a week with bran and water. Cost.@I had rather pray a month with mutton and por@ridge. King.And Don Armado shall be your keeper. My lord Biron, see him deliver'd o'er@ And go we, lords, to put in practice that Which each to other hath so strongly I'll lay my head to any good man's hat, These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn. Sirrah, come on. Cost.I suffer for the truth, sir for true it is,@I was taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true girl and there@fore@ welcome the sour cup of prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again@ and till then, sit thee down, @Boy, what sign is it@ when a man of great spirit grows melancholyly  sign, sir, that @he will look sad. Arm.@Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp. Moth.@No, no O Lord, sir, no. Arm.@How canst thou part sadness and melancholy, my tender juvena@l Moth.@By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior. Arm.@Why tough senior@ why tough senior Moth.Why tender juvenal@ why tender juvenal@ Arm.I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton@ appertaining to thy young days, which we may nominate tender. Moth.@And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to your old time, which we may name tough. Arm.@Pretty@ and apt. Moth.@How mean you, sir@ I pretty, and my saying apt@@ or I apt, and my saying pretty @@Arm.@Thou pretty, because little. Mot@h.@Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt@@ @Arm.@And therefore apt, because quick. @Moth.@Speak you this in my praise, master@ Arm.@In thy condign praise. Moth.I will praise an eel with the same praise. Arm.@What, that an eel is ingenious@ @Moth.@That an eel is quick. Arm.@I do say@ thou art quick in answers thou heatest my blood. Mot@h.@I am answered, sir. Arm.@I love not to be  speaks the mere contrary@ crosses love not him.  have promised to study three years with the duke. Moth.@You may do it in an hour, sir. Arm.Impossible. Moth.@How many is one thrice told Arm.I am ill at reckoning@ it fitteth the spirit of a tapster. Moth.@You are a gentleman and a gamester,@sir. ed G Arm.@I confess both they are both the varnish of a com@plete man. Moth.@Then, I am sure, you know how much the gross sum of deuce-ace amounts to. Arm.@It doth amount to one more than two. @Moth.Which the base vulgar do call@ three. Arm.@True. Moth.@Why, sir, is this such a piece of studydy Now here is three studied, ere y@e'll thrice wink and how easy it is to put' years' to the word 'three,' and study three years in two words, the dancing horse will tell you. Arm.@A most fine figure! Moth.@To prove you a cipher. Arm.I will hereupon confe@ss I am in love and@ as it is base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a base wench. If drawing my sword against the humour of affec@tion would deliver me from the reprobate thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devised courtesy. I think scorn to sigh methinks@ I should out@swear Cupid. Comfort, me, boy what great men have been in love @@@@Moth.@Hercules, master. Ar@m.@Most sweet Hercules! More authority,@dear boy, name more and, sweet my child, let them be men of good repute and carriage. Moth.@Sam@son, master he was a man of good carriage, great carriage, for he carried the town-gates on his back@ like a porter and he was in love. Arm.@O well-knit Sam@son! strong-jointed Sam@son! I do excel thee in my rapier@ as much as thou didst me in carrying gates. I am in love, too. Who was Sam@son's love, my dear Moth@@ Moth.A woman, master. @@Arm.@Of what complexionon  all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four. Arm.@Tell me precisely@ of what complexion. Moth.@Of the sea-water green, sir. Arm.@Is that one of the four complexionsns @Moth.As I have read, sir and the best of them too. Arm.@Green@ indeed@ is the colour of lovers but to have a love of that colour, methinks@ Sam@son had small reason for it. He@ surely@ affected her for her wit. Moth.@It was so, sir for she had a green wit. Arm.@My love is most immaculate white and red. @Moth.Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under such colours. Arm.@Define, define, well-educated infant. Moth.@My father's wit@ and my mother's tongue, assist me! Arm.@Sweet invocation of a child most pretty@ and pa@thetical! Moth.If she be made of white and red, Her faults will ne'er be known, For blushing cheeks by faults are bred@ And fears by pale white shown Then@ if she fear, or be to blame, By this you shall not know, For still her cheeks possess the same@ Which native she doth owe. A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of white and red. Arm.@Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Begga@r @Moth.@The world was very guilty of such a ballad some three ages since but@ I think@ now 'tis not to be found or, if it were, it would neither serve for the writing@ nor the tune. @@Arm.@I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may example my digression by some mighty precedent. Boy, I do love that country girl@ that I took in the park with the rational hind Costard she deserves well. Moth. AsideTo be whipped and yet a better love than my master. @@Arm.Sing, boy my spirit grows heavy in love. @Moth.And that's great marvel, loving a light wench. Arm.@I say, sing. @Moth.Forbear@ till this company be past. Enter  the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard safe and you must suffer him to take no delight@ nor no penance but a' must fast three days a week. For this damsel, I must keep her at the park she is allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well. Arm.@I do betray myself with blushing. Maid! Jaq.@Man@ Arm.@I will visit thee at the lodge. Jaq.@That@'s hereby. Arm.@I know where it is situate. Jaq.Lord, how wise you are! Arm.@I will tell thee wonders. Jaq.With that facece @Arm.@I love thee. Jaq.So I heard you say. Arm.@And so, farewell. Jaq.Fair weather after you! Dull.@Come, Jaquenetta, away!  thou shalt fast for thy offences@ ere thou be pardoned. Cost.@Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a full stomach. Arm.@Thou shalt be heavily punished. Cost.@I am more bound to you@ than your fellows, for they are but lightly rewarded. Arm.@Take away this villain shut him up. Mot@h.@Come, you transgressing slave away! Cost.@Let me not be pent up, sir I will fast, being loose. Moth.No, sir that were fast and loose thou shalt to prison. Cost.@Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation that I have seen, some shall see. Moth.What shall some see@ Cost.@Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon. It is not for prisoners to be too silent in their words and@ therefore@ I will say nothing I thank God@ I have as little patience as another man and@ therefore I can be quiet.  Costard. Arm.@I do affect the very ground, which is base, where her shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, which is basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, which is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And how can that be true love@ which is falsely attempteded Love is a familiar Love is a devil there is no evil angel but Love.  tempted, and he had an excellent strength yet was Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit. Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club@ and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier. The first and second cause will not serve my turn the passado he respects not, the duello he regards not his disgrace is to be called boy but his glory is@ to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust, rapier! be still, drum! for your manager is in love yea, he loveth. Assist me, some extemporal god of rhyme, for@ I am sure@ I shall turn sonnet@@@. Devise, wit write, pen for I am for whole volumes in folio. Exit.  Enter the Princess of  Lords, and other Attendants. Boyet.Now, madam, summon up your dearest spir@its Consider who the king your father sends, To whom he sends, and what's his embassy Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem, To parley with the sole inheritor Of all perfections that a man may owe, Matchless Navarre the plea of no less weight Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen. Be now as prodigal of all dear grace@ As Nature was in making graces dear@ When she did starve the general world beside@ And prodigally gave them all to you. @Prin.@Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean, Needs not the painted flourish of your praise Beauty is bought by judgement of the eye, Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues I am less proud to hear you tell my worth@ Than you much willing to be counted wise In spending your wit in the praise of mine. But now to task the tasker@ good Boyet, You are not ignorant, all-telling fame Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow, Till painful stud@@y shall outwear three years, No woman may approach his silent court Therefore to@'s seemeth it a needful course, Before we enter his forbidden gates, To know his pleasure and in that behalf, Bold of your worthiness, we single you As our best-moving fair solicitor. Tell him, the daughter of the King of France, On serious business, craving quick dispatch, Importunes personal conference with his grace@ Haste, signify so much while we attend, Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will. Boyet.Proud of employment, willingly I go. .All pride is willing pride, and yours is  are the votaries, my loving lords, That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke Firs Longaville is one. Prin.@Know you the man Mar.I know him, madam at a @marriage@feast, Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir Of Jaques Fa@lconbridge, solemnized@ In Normandy, saw I this Longaville A man of sovereign parts @he is esteem'd Well fitted in@@@@ arts, glorious in arms Nothing becomes him ill@ t@hat he would well. The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,@@ If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil, Is a sharp wit match'd with too blunt a will Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills It should non@e spare that come within his power. Pri@n.@Some merry mocking lord, belike is 't so@ Mar.@They say so most@ that most his humours know. Prin.Such short-liv@ed wits do wither as they grow. Who are the rest Kath.The young Dumain@ a well-accomplished youth, Of all that virtue love for virtue loved Most power@ to do most harm, least knowing ill For he hath wit to make an ill shape good, And shape to win grace though he had no wit. I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once And much too little of that good I saw@ Is my report@ to his great worthiness. Ros.@Another of these students at that time Was there with him, if I have heard a truth. Biron they call him but a merrier man, Within the limit of becoming mirth, I never spent an hour's talk withal His eye begets occasion for his wit For every object that the one doth catch@ The other turns to a mirth-moving jest, Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor, Delivers in such apt and gracious words@ That aged ears play truant at his tales@ And younger hearings are quite ravished So sweet and voluble is his discourse. Prin.@God bless my ladies! are they all in love, That every one her own hath garnished With such bedecking ornaments of praise First Lord.@Here comes Boyet. Re-enter .Now, what admittance, lord@@ Boyet.Navarre had notice of your fair approach And he and his competitors in oath Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady, Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learn@t He rather means to lodge you in the field, Like one that comes here to besiege his court, Than seek a dispensation for his oath, To let you enter his unpeopled house. Here co@mes Navarre.  and Attendants. King.Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre. Prin.'Fair' I give you back again and 'welcome' I have not yet the roof of this court is too high to be yours and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine. @King.@You shall be welcome, madam, to my court. Prin.@I will be welcome, then conduct me thither. King.@Hear me, dear lady I have sworn an oath. Prin.@Our Lady help my lord! he'll be forsworn. King.@Not for the world, fair madam, by my will. @Prin.Why, will shall break it will@ and nothing else. King.Your ladyship is ignorant what it is. Prin.Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise, Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance. I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping 'Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord, And sin to break it. But pardon me, I am too sudden-bold To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me. Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming, And suddenly resolve me in my suit.@@@@@@@ King.@Madam, I will, if suddenly I may. Prin.@You will the sooner, that I were away For you'll prove perjured@ if you make me stay. @Biron.Did not I dance with you in Brabant once@@ Ros.@Did not I dance with you in Brabant once Biron.@I know@ you did. Ros.How needless was it then to ask the question! Biron.You must not be so quick. @Ros.@'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions. Biron.Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire. Ros.Not till it leave the rider in the mire. Biron.What time o' day @@Ros.@The hour that fools should ask. Biron.Now fair befall your mask! Ros.@Fair fall the face it covers! Biron.And send you many lovers! Ros.@Amen, so you be none. Biron.Nay, then will I be gone. @King@.Madam, your father here doth intimate The payment of a hundred thousand crowns Being but the one half of an entire sum@ Disbursed by my father in his wars. But say@ that he@ or we, as neither have, Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid A hundred thousand more in surety of the which, One part of Aquitaine is bound to us, Although not valued to the money's worth. If then the king your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied, We will give up our right in Aquitaine, And hold fair friendship with his majesty. But that, it seems, he little purposeth, For here he doth demand to have repaid A@ hundred thousand crowns and not demands, On payment of a hundred thousand crowns, To have his title live in Aquitaine Which we much rather had depart withal@ And have the money by our father lent@ Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is. Dear princess, were not his requests so far From reason's yielding, your fair self should make A yieldin@g 'gainst some reason@ in my breast@ And go well satisfied to France again. Prin.@You do the king my father too much wrong@ And wrong the reputation of your name, In so unseeming to confess receipt Of that which hath so faithfully been paid. King.@I do protest@ I never heard of it @@And@ if you prove it, I'll repay it back@ Or yield up Aquitaine. Prin.We arrest your word. Boyet, you can produce acquittances@ For such a sum@ from special officers Of Charles his father. King.Satisfy me so. Boyet.So please your grace, the packet is not co@me@ Where that and other specialties are bound To-morrow you shall have a sight of them. King.@It shall suffice me at which interview@ All liberal reason I will yield unto. Mean@time@ receive such welcome at my hand@ As honour@ without breach of honour@ may Make tender of to thy true worthiness You may not co@me, fair princess, in my gates But here without you shall be so received@ As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart, Though so denied fair harbour in my house. Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell To-morrow shall we visit you again. Prin.@Sweet health and fair desires consort your grace! King.@Thy own wish wish I thee in every place!  I will commend you to mine own heart. Ros.@Pray you, do my commendations I would be glad to see it. Biron.I would@ you heard it groan. Ros.Is the fool sick @@Biron.Sick at the heart. Ros.@Alack, let it blood. Biron.Would that do it good @@@Ros.@My physic says 'ay.' Biron.Will you prick't with your eye@  with my knife. Biron.Now, God save thy life! Ros.@And yours from long living! Biron.I cannot stay thanksgiving. Retiring. Dum.@Sir, I pray you, a word what lady is that same@ Boyet.The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name. Dum.@A gallant lady. Monsieur, fare you well. E@@@I beseech you@ a word what is she in the white @@Boyet.A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light. Long.@Perchance@ light in the light. I desire her name. Boyet.She hath but one for herself to desire that@ were a shame. Long.@Pray you, sir, whose daughter@ Boyet.Her mother's, I have heard. Long.@God's blessing on your beard! Boyet.Good sir, be not offended. She is an heir of Fa@lconbridge. Long.@Nay, my choler is ended. She is a most sweet lady. Boyet.Not unlike, sir, that may be. Exit Long. Biron.What's her name in the cap@ Boyet.Rosaline, by good hap. Biron.Is she wedded@ or no@ Boyet.To her will, sir, or so. Biron.You are welcome, sir adieu. Boyet.Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you. Exit @That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord Not a word with him but a jest. Boyet.And every jest but a word. Prin.It was well done of you@ to take him at his word. Boyet.I was as willing to grapple@ as he was to board. Mar.Two hot sheeps, marry. Boyet.And wherefore not ships@ No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips. Mar.@You sheep, and I pasture shall that finish thejest@ Boyet.So you grant pasture for me. @Not so, gentle beast My lips are no common, though several they be. Boyet.Belonging to whom@@ Mar.@To my fortunes and me. Prin.Good wits will be jangling but, gentles, agree This civil war of wits were much better used On Navarre and his book-men for here 'tis abused. Boyet.If my observation, which very seldom lies, By the heart's still rhetoric@ disclosed with eyes, Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected. Prin.@With what@ Boyet.With that which we lovers entitle@ affected. Prin.@Your reason@@ Boyet.Why, all his behaviours did make their retire To the court of his eye, peeping th@rough desire His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd, Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see, Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be All senses to that sense did make their repair, To feel only looking on fairest of fair Methought@ all his senses were lock'd in his eye, As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy Who, tendering their own worth@ from where they were glass'd, Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd@ His face's own margent did quote such amazes@ That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes. I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his, An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss. Prin.@Co@me@ to our pavilion Boyet is  to speak that in words@ which his eye hath disclosed. I only have made a mouth of his eye, By adding a tongue which I know will not lie. Ros.Thou art an old love-monger@ and speakest skilfully. Mar.He is Cupid's grandfather@ and learns news of him. Ros.@Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim. Boyet.Do you hear, my mad wenches Mar.No. Boyet.What then, do you see@ Ros.Ay, our way to be gone. Boyet.You are too hard for me.   ARMADO  Arm.@Warble, child make passionate my sense of hearing. @Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years take this key, give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately hither I must employ him in a letter to my love. @Moth.@Master, will you win your love with a French brawl@ @Arm.@How meanest thou@ brawling in French@ @Moth.@No, my complete master but to j@ig off a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet. humo@r it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note@ and sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometime through the nose, as if you snuffed up love by smelling love with your hat penthouse-like@ o'er the shop of your eyes with your arms crossed on your thin-belly doublet@ like a rabbit on a spit or your hands in your pocket@ like a man after the old painting and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away. These are complements, these are humours these betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without these and make them men of note--do you note@ me --that most are affected to these. Arm.How hast thou purchased this @By my penny of observation. Arm.@But O,--but  hobby-horse is forgot.' Arm.@Callest thou my love 'hobby-horse' Moth.@No, master@ the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love@ perhaps@ a hackney. But have you forgot your love@ Arm.@Almost I had. Moth.Negligent student! learn her by heart. A@rm.@By heart@ and in heart, boy. @Moth.And out of heart, master all those three I will prove. Arm.@What wilt thou prove@@ Moth.@A @man, if I @live and this, by, in, and without, upon the instant by heart you love her, because your heart cannot co@me by her in heart you love her, because your heart is in love with her and out of heart you love her, being out of heart that you cannot enjoy her. @Arm.@I am all these three. Moth.And three times as much more, and yet nothing at all. Arm.Fetch hither the swain @he must carry me a letter. @Moth.A message well sympathized a horse to be am@bassador for an ass. Arm.@Ha, ha! what sayest thou@ Moth.@Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse, for he is very slow-gaited. But I go. Arm.@The way is but short away! Moth.@As swift as lead, sir. Arm.@The meaning, pretty ingenious@@ Is not lead a metal@ heavy, dull, and  master@ or rather, master, no. Arm.@I say@ lead is slow. Mot@h.@You are too swift, sir, to say so Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun@ Ar@m.@Sweet smoke of rhetoric! He r@eputes me a cannon and the bullet, that's he @I shoot thee at the swain. Mot@h.@Thump then@ and I flee.  Arm.@A most acute juvena@l volable and free of grace! By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place. My herald is return'd. Re-enter @A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin. Arm.@Some enigma, some riddle come,   Cost.No egma, no riddle, no l'envoy no salve in the mail, sir O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! no l'envoy@ no  no salve, sir, but a plantain! Arm.@By virtue, thou enforcest laughter thy silly thought@ my spleen the heaving of my lungs provokes me to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars! Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, and the word l'envoy@ for a salve@@ Moth.@Do the wise think them other@ is not l'envoy a salve@ Arm.@No, page it is an epilogue or discourse, to make plain Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain. I will example it The fox, the ape@ and the humble-bee, Were still at odds, being but three. There's t@he moral. Now  add the l'envoy. Say the moral again. Arm.@The fox, the ape,@@@@ the humble-bee, Were still at odds, being but three@. Moth.@Until the goose came out of door, And stay'd the odds@ by adding four. Now will I begin your moral, and do@ you follow with my l'envoy. The fox, the ape@ and the humble-bee, Were still at odds, being but three. Arm.@Until the goose came out of door, Staying the odds by adding four. @Moth. ending in the goose would you desire more@@ Cost.The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's @@flat. Sir, your penny@worth is good, an your goose be fat. To sell a bargain well@ is as cunning as fast and loose Let me see a fat l'envoy ay, that's a fat goose. @Arm.@Co@me hither, come hither. How did this argument begi@n Moth.@By saying@ that a costard was broken in a shin. Then call'd you for the l'envoy. Cost.@True, and I for a plantain thus came your argu@ment in Then t@he boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought And he ended the market. Arm.@But tell me how was there a costard broken in a shin @@Mot@h.@I will tell you sensibly. Cost.@Thou hast no feeling of it, Mo@th I will speak that l'envoy I Costard, running out, that was safely within, Fell over the threshold, and broke my s@hin. Arm.@We will talk no more of this @matter. Cost.@Till t@here be more matter in the shin. Ar@m.@Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee. Cost.@O, marry me to one Frances @I smell some l'envoy, some goose, in this. Arm.By my sweet soul, I mean@ setting thee at liberty, enfreedoming thy person thou wert immured, restrained, captivated, bound. Cost.@True, true and now you will be my purgation@ and let me loose. Arm.@I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance and, in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but t@his bear this significant to the country maid Jaquenetta there is  the best ward ofmine hono@r@ is@ rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow. Exit. Moth.@Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu. Cost.My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my  will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration! O, that@'s the Latin word for three farthings three farthings--remuneration.-~'What's the price of  ' why, it carries it. Remun@eration! why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I will never buy and sell out of this word. Enter  my good knave Costard! exceedingly well met. Cost.Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for a remunerationon Biron.What is a remuneration Cost.Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing. Bir@@on.Why, then, three-farthing@ worth of silk. Cost.@I thank your worship God be wi' you! Bir@@on.Stay, slave I must employ thee As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave, Do one thing for me that I shall entreat. Cost.@When would you have it done, sir@@ Bir@@on.This afternoon. Cost.Well, I will do it, sir fare you well. Bir@@on.Thou knowest not what it is. Cost.@I shall know, sir, when I have done it. Biron.Why, villain, thou must know first. Cost.@I will co@me to your worship to-morrow morning. Biron.It must be done this afternoon. Hark, slave, it is but this The princess co@mes to hunt here in the park, And in her train there is a gentle lady When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name, And Rosaline they call her ask for her And to her white hand see thou do commend This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon go. @G@ardon, O sweet g@ardon! better than remu@ner@ation, a 'leven-pence farthing better most sweet g@ardon! I will do it, sir, in print. G@ardon!   I, forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip A very beadle to a humorous sigh A critic, nay, a night-watch constable A domineering pedant o'er the boy Than whom no mortal so magnificent! This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms, The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers and malcontents, Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces, Sole imperator@ and great general Of trotting 'paritors --O my little heart -~And I to be a corporal of his field, And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop! What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife! A woman, that is like a German clock, Still a-repairing, ever out of frame, And never going aright. being a watch, But being watch'd that it may still go right@! Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all And, among three, to love the worst of all A wightly wanton with a velvet brow, With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes Ay, and, by heaven, one that will do the deed@ Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard And I to sigh for her! to watch for her! To pray for her! Go to it is a plague That Cupid will impose for my neglect Of his almighty dreadful little might. Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue@ and groan Some men must love my lady@ and some  Enter the @Was that the king, that spurr'd his horse so hard Against the steep uprising of the hill @Boyet.@I know not but@ I think@ it was not he. Prin.Whoe'er a' was, a' show'd a mounting mind. Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch On Saturday we will return to France. Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush@ That we must stand and play the murderer in@ For.@Here@by, upon the edge of yonder coppice A stand@ where you may make the fairest shoot. @Prin.I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot, And thereupon thou speak'st@ the fairest shoot. For.@Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so. Prin.@What, what @@first praise me@ and again say@ no@ O short-lived pride! Not fair@@ alack for woe! For.@Yes, madam, fair. Prin.@Nay, never paint me now Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow. Here, good my glass, take this for telling true@ Fair payment for foul words is more than due. For.@Nothing but fair is that which you inherit. Prin.See, see, my beauty will be saved by merit! O heresy in fair, fit for these days! A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise. But co@me, the bow @now mercy goes to kill, And shooting well is then accounted ill. Thus will I save my credit in the shoot Not wounding, pity would not let me do't If wounding, then it was to show my skill, That more for praise@ than purpose@ meant to kill. And@ out of question@ so it is sometimes, Glory grows guilty of detested crimes, When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part, We bend to that the working of the heart As I@ for praise alon@e now seek to spill The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill. Boyet.Do not curst wives hold that self@sovereignty Only for praise@ sake, when they strive to be Lords o'er their lords @@Prin.@Only for praise and praise we may afford To any lady that subdues a lord.@ co@mes a member of the commonwealth.  dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady@ @Prin.Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads. Cost.@Which is the greatest lady, the highest@@ Prin.The thickest@ and the tallest. Cost.@The thickest and the tallest! it is so truth is truth. An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit, One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit. Are not you the chief woman@ you are the thickest here. @Prin.What@'s your will, sir@ what's your will@@ Cost.I have a letter from Monsieur Biron@ to one Lady Rosaline. Prin.@O, thy letter, thy letter! he's a good friend of mine Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve Break up this capon. Boyet.I am bound to serve. This letter is mistook, it importeth none here It is writ to Jaquenetta. Prin.@We will read it, I swear. Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear. Boyet. reads 'By heaven, that t@hou art fair, is  that thou art beauteous truth itself, that thou art  beauteous, truer than truth itself, have  and most illustrate king Cophetua set eye upon  indubitate  rightly say, Veni, vidi, vici  in the vulgar, --O base and  He came,  one saw@ two overcame, t@hree. Who came@ the king why  he c@ome to  to overcome to whom come he to the beggar what saw @he the baggar who overcame the beggar. The conclusion is victory on   king's.@ The captive is  dearest design  ADRIANO DE ARMADO.' Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar 'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey. Submissive fall his princely feet before, And he from forage will incline to play But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then Food for his rage, repasture for his den. Prin.@What plume of feathers is he@ that indited this letter@ What vanene what weather@cock@ did you ever hear better@@ Boyet.I am much deceived@ but I remember the style. Prin.Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile. Boyet.This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport To the prince@ and his book@mates. Prin.@Thou@ fellow, a word Who gave thee this letter@ Cost.@I told y@ou my lord. Prin.To who@m shouldst thou give it@@ Cost.@From my lord to my lady. Prin.@From which lord@ to which lady @@Cost.From my lord Biron, a good master of mine, To a lady of France@ that he call'd Rosaline. Prin.Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away. To Ros. Here, sweet, put up this 'twill be thine another day.  Boyet.Who is the suitor@ who is the suitor@ @Ro@s.@Shall I teach you to kno@w Boyet.Ay, my continent of beauty. @Ros.@Why, she that bears the bow. Finely put off! Boyet.My lady goes to kill horns but, if thou marry, Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry. Finely put on! Ros.@Well, then, I am the shooter. Boyet.And who is your deer@ Ros.If we choose by the horns, yourself co@me not near. Finely put on, indeed! Mar.@You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the brow. Boyet.But she herself is hit lower have I hit her now@ @Ros.@Shall I co@me upon thee with an old saying, that was a man when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as touching the hit itit Boyet.So I may answer thee with one as old, that was a woman when Queen Guinover of Britain was a little wench, as touching the hit it. Ros.Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it, Thou canst not hit it, my good man. Boyet.An I cannot, cannot, cannot, An .By my troth, most pleasan@t how both did fit it! Mar.@A mark marvellous well shot, for they both did hit it. Boyet.A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady! Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be. Mar.@Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith, your hand is out. Cost.Indeed, a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout. Boyet.An if my hand be out, then@ belike your hand is in. Cost.@Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin. Mar.@Co@me, co@me, you talk greasily@ your lips grow foul. Cost.@She's too hard for you at pricks, sir challenge her to bowl. Boyet.I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl. @E@xeunt Boyet and Maria. Cost.@By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown! Lord, Lord, how the ladies and I have put him down! O' m@y troth, most sweet jests! most incony vulgar wit! When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it were, so fit. Arma@do o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man! To see him walk before a lady@ and to bear her fan! To see him kiss his hand! and how most sweetly a' will swear! And his page o' t' other side, that handful of wit! Ah, heavens, it is a most pathetical nit! Costard, running.   reverend sport, truly and done in the testi@mony of a good conscience. @Hol.The deer was, as you know,  ripe as the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in the ear of caelo, the sky, the welkin, the heaven and anon falleth like a crab@ on the face of terra, the soil, the land, the earth. Nath.@Truly, Master Holofernes, t@he epithets are sweetly varied, like a scholar at the least but, sir, I assure ye, it was a buck of the first head. @Hol.@Sir Nathaniel, haud credo. Dull.'Twas not a haud credo@ 'twas a pricket. Hol.@Most barbarous intimation! yet a kind of insinua@tion, as it were, in via, in way, of explication facere, as it were, replication, or@ rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his inclination, after his undressed, unpolished, unedu@cated, unpruned, untrained, or rather, unlettered, or@ ra@therest, unconfirmed fashion, to insert again my haud credo for a deer. Dull.I said@ the deer was not a haud credo 'twas a pricket. Hol.Twice-sod simplicity, bis coctus! O thou monster Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look! Nath.@Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred in a book he hath not eat paper, as it were he hath not drunk ink his intellect is not replenished he is only an animal, only sensible in the duller parts And such barren plants are set before us, that we thankful should be, Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that do fructify in us more than he. For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool, So@ were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school But omne bene, say I being of an old father's mind,  the weather that .You two are book-men can you tell me by your wi@t@ What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five weeks old as yet@ Hol.@Dictynna, good@man Dull Dictynna, good@man Dull. Dull.What is Dictynna Nath.A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon. @Hol.@The moon was a month old@ when Adam was no more. And raught not to five weeks@ w@hen he came to five-score. The allusion holds in the exchange. Dull.@'Tis true@ indeed the collusion holds in the ex@change. @Hol.@God comfort thy capacity! I say, the allusion holds in the exchange. Dull.@And I say, the pollusion holds in the exchange for the moon is never but a month old and I say beside@ that, 'twas a pricket that the princess killed. Hol.Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph on the death of the dee@r And, to humo@r the ignorant,@@@ I the deer the princess killed@ a pricket.  Master Holofernes, perge so it shall please you to abrogate scurrility. Hol.@I will something affect the letter, for it argues fa@cility.   say@ a sore but not a sore, till now made sore with  @The dogs did yell L to  sore, or else sorel the  Of one sore I an hundred make@ by adding but one more L. Nath.A rare talent!  a talent be a claw, look how he claws him with a talent. Hol.This is a gift that I have, simple, simple a foolish extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures, shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions, revolutions these are begot in the ventricle of memory, nourished in the womb  mater, and delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am thank@ful for it. Nath.@Sir, I praise the Lord for you and so may my parishioners for their sons are well tutored by you, and their daughters profit very greatly under you you are a good member of the commonwealth.  if their sons be ingenuous, they shall want no instruction if their daughters be capable, I will put it to them  loquitur a soul feminine saluteth  give you good morrow, master Parson. Hol.Master Parson, quasi pers-on. An@ if one should be pierced, which is the one @@Cost.@Marry, master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead. @Hol.Piercing a hogshead! a good lustre of conceit in a tuft of earth fire enough for a flint, pearl enough for a swine 'tis pretty it is well. Jaq.@Good master Parson, be so good as read me this letter it was given me by Costard, and sent me from Don Arma@do I beseech you, read  quando pecus omne sub  so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I may speak of thee as the traveller doth of  ti pretia. Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! who understandeth thee not, loves thee  pardon, sir, what are the contents @@or@ rather, as Horace says in his--What, my soul, verses@@ @Nath.@Ay, sir, and very learned. Hol.@Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse lege,  love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love@ Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vow'd! Though to myself forsworn, to thee I'll faithful prove Those thoughts to mewere oaks, to thee like osiers bow'd. Study his bias leaves@ and makes his book thine eyes, Where all those pleasures live@ that art would comprehend If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice Well learned is that tongue@ that well can thee commend, All ignorant that soul@ t@hat sees thee without wonder Which is to me some praise@ that I thy parts admire Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder, Which, not to anger bent, is music@ and sweet fire. Celestial as thou art, O, pardon, love, this wrong, That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue. @Hol.You find not the apostraphas, and so miss the ac@cent let me supervise the canzonet. Here are only numbers ratified but, for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret. Ovidius Naso was the man and why, in@deed, Naso, but for smelling out the odoriferous flowers of fancy, the jerks of invention@ Imitar@i is nothing so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper, the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin, was this directed to you @Jaq.@Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Biron, one of the strange queen's lords. Hol.I will overglance the superscript  of the most beauteous Lady Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of the letter, for the nomination of the party writing to the person written unto 'Your ladyship's in all  Sir Nathaniel, this Biron is one of@the votaries with the king and here he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger queen's, which@ accidentally, or by the way of progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my sweet deliver this paper into the royal hand of the king it may concern much. Stay not thy compliment I forgive thy duty adieu. Jaq.Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life! Cost.@Have with thee, my girl.  you have done this in the fear of God, very religiously and, as a certain father saith,-~ Hol.Sir, tell not me of the father@ I do fear colo@rable colo@rs. But@ to return to the verses did they please you, Sir Nathaniel@@ @Nath.@Marvellous well for the pen. Hol.I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil of mine where, if, before repast, it shall@ please you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto where I will prove those verses to be very un@learned, neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention I beseech your society. Nath.And thank you too for society, saith the text, is the happiness of life. @Hol.And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes  invite you too you shall not say me@ nay pauca verba. Away! the gentles are at their game, and we will to our   king he is hunting the deer I am coursing myself they have pitched a toil I am toiling in a pitch,--pitch@ that defiles defile! a foul word. Well, set thee down, sorrow! for so@ they say@ the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool@ well proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as Ajax it kills sheep it kills me, I a sheep well proved again o' my side! I will not love if I do, hang me i' fa@ith, I will not. O, but her eye,--by this light, but for her eye, I would not love her yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing in the world but lie, and lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love and it hath taught me to rhyme@ and to be melancholy and here is part of my rhyme, and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my sonnets already the clown bore it, the fool sent it, and the lady hath it sweet clown, sweeter fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Here co@mes one with a paper God give him grace to  the King, Ay,  by heaven@! Proceed, sweet Cupid thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the left pap. In faith, secrets! King.@readsSo sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not To those fresh morning drops upon the rose, As thy eye-beams,  smote The  that on my  shines the silver moon one half  the transparent bosom of the  every tear that I do weep No drop but as a coach dot@h carry thee@ @So ridest   me, And they thy  nor tongue of mortal tell. How shall she know my griefs I'll drop the paper Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes  What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear. Biron.Now, in thy likeness, one more fool@ appear!  I am forsworn!  co@mes in like a perjure, wearing  love, I hope sweet fellowship in shame!@@ Biron.One drunkard loves another of the name. @@Long.@Am I the first that have been perjured @I could put thee in comfort. Not by two@ that I know @@@@@Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society, The shape of@ Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity. @Long.@I fear@ these stubborn lines lack power to move. O sweet Maria, empress of my love! These numbers will I tear, and write in prose. Biron.O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose Disfigure not his slop. Long.@This same shall go.  the  @ world cannot hold argument,  transform'd! four woodcocks in a dish! @D@um.@O most divine Kate! Biron.O most profane coxcomb!b! Dum.@By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye! Biron.By earth, she is not, corporal, there you lie.e. Dum.@Her amber hair@ for foul hath amber quoted. Biron.An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.oted. Dum.@As upright as the cedar. Biron.Stoop, I say Her shoulder is with child. @@Dum.@As fair as day. Biron.Ay, as some days but then no sun must shine.@@@ Dum.@O that I had my wish! Long.@And I had min@@@@@@e! @And I mine too, good Lord@@! Biron.Amen, so I had mine is not that a good word@@@@ Dum.@I would forget her but a fever she Reigns in my blood@ and will remember'd be. Biron.A fever in your blood! why, then incision Would let her out in saucers sweet misprision@! D@um.@Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ.  I'll mark how love can vary wit. Dum. l~Love, whose month is ever  heaven's breat@h. Air, quoth he, thy cheeks may blow Air, would  alack, my hand is sworn@  will I send@ and something else more plain, That shall express my true love's fasting pain. O, would the king, Biron, and Longaville, Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill, @@Would from my forehead wipe a perjured note For none offend@ where all alike do dote. Long.  thy love is far from charity, That in love's grief desirest society You may look pale, but I should blush, I know, To be o'er@heard@ and taken napping so.  @@@@@you blush as his@ your case is such You chide at him, offending twice as much You do not love Maria Longaville Did never sonnet for her sake compile, Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart His loving bosom@ to keep down his heart. I have been closely shrouded in this bush@ And mark'd you both@ and for you both did blush@ I heard your guilty rhymes, observed your fashion, Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion Ay me! says one@@ Jove! the other cries One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's  would for paradise break faith and troth To Dum. And Jove, for your love, would infringe an  will Biron say@ when that he shall hear@@ Faith so infringed, which such @@zeal did swear@ How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit! How will he triumph, leap@ and laugh at it@! For all the wealth that ever I did see, I would not have him know so much by me. Biron.Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy. Advancin@g. Ah, good my liege, I pray thee, pardon me! Good heart, what grace hast thou, thus to reprove These worms for loving, that art most in love@@ Your eyes do make no coaches in your tears There is no certain princess that appears You'll not be perjured, 'tis a hateful thing Tush, none but minstrels like of sonneting! But are you not ashamed@ nay, are you not, All three of you, to be thus much o'er@shot@ You found his mote the king your mote did see But I a beam do find in each of three. O, what a scene of foolery have I seen, Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow@ and of teen! O me, with what strict patience have I sat, To see a king transformed to a gnat! To see great Hercules whipping a gig, And profound Solomon to tune a jig, And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys, And critic Timon laugh at idle toys! Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain@@ And, gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain@ And where my liege'@s all about the breast @A caudle, ho! King.@Too bitter is thy jest. Are we betray'd thus to thy over-vie@w Biron.Not you to me, but I betray'd by you I, that am honest I, that hold it sin To break the vow I am engaged in I am betray'd, by keeping company With m@en like men@ @inconstancy. When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme@@ Or groan for @love or spend a minute's time In pruning me@@ When shall you hear that I Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye, A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist, A leg, a limb King.Soft! whither away so fast@ A true man@ or a thief@ that gallops so@ Biron.I post from love good lover, let me go.  bless the king! King.What present hast thou there@ Cost.@Some certain treason. King.@What makes treason here@ Cost.@Nay, it makes nothing, sir. King.If it mar nothing neither, The treason@ and you@ go in peace away together. Jaq.I beseech your grace, let this letter be read Our parson misdoubts it 'twas treason, he said. King.@Biron, read it over. Giving him the @paper. Where hadst thou it@ Jaq.Of  King.Where hadst thou it Cost.@Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio. King.@How now! what is in you@@ why dost thou tear it @@Biron.A toy, my liege, a toy your grace needs not fear it. Long.@It did move him to passion, and therefore let's hear it. Dum.@It is Biron's writing, and here is his   you whoreson loggerhead@@@@@@@! you were born to do me shame. Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess. King.@What@ Biron.That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess He, he, and you, and you, my liege, and I, Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die. O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more. D@um.@Now the number is even. Biron.True, true we are four. Will these turtles be gone King.Hence, sirs away! Cost.@Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.  lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace! As true we are@ as flesh and blood can be The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face Young blood doth not obey an old decree We cannot cross the cause why we were born Therefore@ of all hands must we be forsworn. King.@What, did these rent lines show some love of thine Biron.Did they, quoth you@ Who sees the heavenly Rosaline, That, like a rude and savage man of Inde, At the first opening of the gorgeous east, Bows not his vassal head and@ strucken blind@ Kisses the base ground with obedient breast@ What peremptory eagle-sighted eye Dares look upon the heaven of her brow, That is not blinded by her majesty@@ @King.@What zeal, what fury hath inspired thee now@ My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon She@ an attending star, scarce seen a light. Biron.My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Biron O, but for my love, day would turn to night! Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek, Where several worthies make one dignity, Where nothing wants@ that want itself doth seek. Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues,-~Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not To things of sale a seller's praise belongs, She passes praise then praise too short doth blot. A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn, Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born, And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine. King.By heaven, thy love is black as ebony. Biron.Is ebony like her @@O wood divine! A wife of such wood were felicity. O, who can give an oath@@ where is a book @@That I may swear@ beauty doth beauty lack, If that she learn not of her eye to look No face is fair@ that is not full so black. King.@O paradox ! Black is the badge of hell, The hue of dungeons@ and the s@uit of night And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well. Biron.Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light. O, if in black my lady's brows be deck'd, It mourns@ that painting@ and usurping hair@ Should ravish doters with a false aspect And therefore is she born to make black fair. Her favour turns the fashion of the days, For native blood is counted painting now And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise, Paints itself black, to imitate her brow. Dum.@To look like her@ are chimney-sweepers black. Long.@And@ since her time@ are colliers counted bright. King@.@And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack. Dum.@Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light. Biron.Your mistresses dare never come in rain, For fear their colours should be wash'd away. King.@'Twere good, yours did for, sir, to tell you plain, I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day. Biron.I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here. King.No devil will fright thee then so much as she. Dum.@I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear. Long.@Look, here's thy love my foot and her face  if the streets were paved with thine eyes, Her feet were much too dainty for suc@h tread! Dum.@O vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies The street should see as she walk'd over@head. King.@But what of this@@ are we not all in love @@Bir@on.Nothing so sure and thereby all forsworn. King.@Then leave this chat and, good Biron, now prove Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn. Dum.Ay, marry, there some flattery for this evil. Long.O, some authority how to proceed Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil. Dum.@Some salve for perjury. @Biron.'Tis more than need. Have at you, then, affection's men at arms. Consider@ what you first did swear unto, To fast, to study, and to see no woman Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth. Say, can you fastst your stomachs are too young And abstinence engenders maladies. And where that you have vow'd to study, lords, In that each of you have forsworn his book, Can you still dream@ and pore@ and thereon lookok For when would you, my lord, or you, or you, Have found the ground of study's excellence@ Without the beauty of a woman's face@ From women's eyes this doctrine I derive They are the ground, the books, the academes@ From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire. Why, universal plodding poisons up The nimble spirits in the arteries, As motion@ and long-during action@ tires The sinewy vigo@r of the traveller. Now, for not looking on a woman's face, You have in that forsworn the use of eyes And study too, the causer of your vow For where is any author in the world@ Teaches such beauty as a woman's eyeye Learning is but an adjunct to ourself@ And where we are@ our learning likewise is@ Then@ when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes, Do we not likewise see our learning there @@O, we have made a vow to study, lords, And in that vow we have forsworn our books. For when would you, my liege, or you, or you, In leaden contemplation@ have found out Such fiery numbers@ as t@he prompting eyes Of beaut@y's tutors have enrich@'@d you with@ Other slow arts entirely keep the brain And therefore, finding barren practisers, Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil But love, first learned in a lady's eyes, Lives not alone immured in the brain But, wit@h the motion of all elements, Courses as swift as thought in every power, And gives to every power a double power, Above their functions and their offices. It adds a precious seeing to the eye A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound, When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd Love's feeling is more soft@ and sensible@ Than are the tender horns of cockled snails Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste For valour, is not Love a Hercules, Still climbing trees in the Hesperides @@Subtle as Sphinx as sweet@ and musical@ As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair And@ when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony. Never durst poet touch a pen to write@ Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs O, then his lines would ravish savage ears@ And plant in tyrants mild humility. From women's eyes this doctrine I derive They sparkle still the right Promethean fire They are the books, the arts, the academes, That show, contain@ and nouris@h all the world Else@ none at all in aught proves excellent. Then fools you were@ these women to forswear, Or@ keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools. For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love, Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men, Or for men's sake, the authors of these women, Or women's sake, by whom we men are men, Let us once lose our oaths@ to find ourselves, Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths, It is religio@n to be thus forsworn, For charity itself fulfils the law, And who can sever love from charity@ @King.@Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field ! Biron.Advance your standards, and upon them, lords Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advised, In conflict that you get the sun of them. Long.@Now to plain-dealing lay these glozes by Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France King.And win them too therefore let us devise Some entertainment for them in their tents. Biron.First, from the park let us conduct them thither Then@ homeward@ every man attach the hand Of his fair mistress in the afternoon We will with some strange pastime solace them, Such as the shortness of the time can shape For revels, dances, masks@ and merry hours@ Fore@run fair Love, strewing her way with flowers. King.@Away, away! no time shall be omitted@ That will be@time, and may by us be fitted.  cockle reap'@d no corn And justice always whirls in equal measure Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn If so, our copper buys no better  Hol.Satis   praise God for you, sir your reasons at dinner have been sharp and sententious pleasant without scurri@lity, witty, with~out affection, audacious without impuden@cy, learned without opinion, and strange without heresy. I did converse this quondam day with a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nominated@ or called, Don Adriano de  humo@r is lofty, his discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye ambitious, his gait majestical, and his general behavio@r vain, ridi@culous, and thrasonical. He is too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it were, too peregrinate, as I may call it. @Nath.@A most singular and choice epithet. Draws  draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer than the staple of his argument. I abhor such fanatical phantasimes, such insociable and point-devise companions such rackers of orthography, as to speak@ dout, fine, when he should say@ doubt det, when he should pronounce@ debt,--d, e, b, t, not d, e,@ t he clepeth a calf, cauf half, hauf neighbo@r vocatur nebour neigh@ abbreviated@ ne. This is abhominable,--which he would call abbominable@ it insi@nuateth me of insanie  make frantic,  Arm.@ not sirrah @@Arm.@Men of peace, well encounter@ed. Hol.@Most military sir, salutation.  have been at a great feast of languages, and stolen the scraps.@@@  they have lived long on the alms~basket of words. I marvel@ thy master hath not eaten thee for a word for thou art not so long by the head as  art easier swallowed than a flap~drago@n. Moth.@Peace! the peal begins. Arm.To ieur, are you not lettered@ Moth.@Yes, yes he teaches boys the horn@book. What is a, b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head@@  a horn added. Moth.@Ba, most silly sheep@ with a horn. You hear his learning. @Hol.Quis, quis, thou consonant Moth.@The third of the five vowels, if you repeat them or the l.@I will repeat them,--a,  Moth.@The sheep the other two concludes it,--o, u. Arm.@Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet touch, a quick venue of wit! snip, snap, quick and home! it rejoiceth my intellect true wit! Moth.@Offered by a child to an old man which is wit-old. Hol.@What is the figure@ what is the figure@ Moth.@Horns. Hol.@Thou disputest like an infant go, whip thy gig. Moth.@Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about your  of a cuckold's @horn. Cost.@An I had but one penny in the world,@thou should@st have it to buy ginger@bread hold, there is the very remu@neration I had of thy master, thou halfpenny purse of wit, thou pigeon-egg of discretion. O, an the heavens were so pleased@ that thou wert but my bastard, what a joyful father would@st thou make me! Go to thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers' ends, as they say. @Hol.@O, I smell false Latin dunghill for unguem. Arm.@ will be singuled from the barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the charge-house on the top of the mountainin Hol.@Or@ mons, the hill. Arm.@At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain. Hol.I do, sans question. Arm.@Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and affec@tion@ to congratulate the princess at her pavilio@n in the posteriors of this day, which the rude multitude call@ the afternoon. Hol.@The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is liable, congruent@ and measurable for the afternoon the word is well culled, chose, sweet and apt, I do assure you, sir, I do assure. Arm.@Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my fami@liar, I do assure y@e, very good friend @for what is in@ward between us, let it pass. I do beseech t@hee, remember thy courtesy @I beseech thee, apparel thy head @and among other importan@t@ and most serious designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let that pass for I must tell thee, it will please his grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus, dally with my excrement, with my mustachio but, sweet heart, let t@hat pass. By the world, I recount no fable some certain special hono@rs it pleaseth his greatness to im@part to Armado, a soldier, a man of travel, that hath seen the world but let that pass. The very all of all is,--but, sweet heart, I do implore secrecy,--that the king would have me present the princess, sweet chuck, with some de@lightful ostentation, or show, or pageant, or antique, or fire@work. Now, understanding that the curate@ and your sweet self@ are good at such eruptions@ and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to crave your assistance. Hol.@Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.  concerning some entertainment of time, some show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by our assistants, at the king's command, and this most gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, @before the princess I say@ none so fit as to present the Nine Worthies. Nath.Where will you find men worthy enough to pr@esent them Hol.Joshua, yourself myself and this gallant gentleman, Judas Maccabaeus this swain, because of his great limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great the page, Hercules,-~ Arm.Pardon, sir@ error he is not quantity enough for that Worthy's thumb he is not so big as the end of his club. Hol.@Shall I have audience @@he shall present Hercules in minority his enter and exit shall be strangling a snake and I will have an apology for that purpose. @Moth.An excellent device! so, if any of the audience hi@ss, you may   that is the way to make an offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it. Arm.@For the rest of the  Hol.I will play three myself. Moth.@Thrice-worthy gentleman! Arm.@Shall I tell you a thing @Hol.@We attend. @Arm.@We will have, if this fadge not, an antique. I be@seech you, follow. Hol.@Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while. Dull.@Nor understood none neither,  will employ thee. Dull.I'll make one in a dance, or so or I will play On the tabor to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay. Hol.@Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport@  Prin.Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart, If fairings co@me thus plentifully in A lady wall'd about witth diamonds! Look you@ what I have from the loving king. @Ros.@Madame, came nothing else along with that @@Prin.Nothing but this! yes, as much love in rhyme@ As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper, Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all, That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name. Ros.@That was the way to make his godhead wax, For he hath been five thousand years a boy, Kath.@Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too. Ros.@You'll ne'er be friends with him a' kill'd your sister. Kath.He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy And so she died had she been light, like you, Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit, She might ha@' been a grandam ere she died And so may you for a light heart lives long. Ros.@What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word Kath.A light condition in a beauty dark. @Ros.@We need more light to find your meaning out. Kath.You'll mar the light@ by taking it in snuff Therefore@ I'll darkly end the argument. @Ros.@Look, what you do, you do it still i' the dark. Kath.So do not you, for you are a light wench. Ros.@Indeed@ I weigh not you, and therefore light. Kath.You weigh me not@@ O, that's you care not for me. Ros.@Great reason for 'past cure is still past care.' Prin.@Well bandied both a set of wit well play'd. But, Rosaline, you have a favo@r too Who sent it@ and what is it @@  you knew An if my face were but as fair as yours, My favour were as great be witness this. Nay, I have verses too, I thank Biron The numbers true and, were the numbering too, I were the fairest goddess on the ground I am compared to twenty thousand fairs, O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter! Prin.Any thinglike@ Ros.Much@ in the letters nothing@ in the praise. Prin.Beauteous as ink a good conclusion. Kath.Fair as a text B in a copy-book. Ros.@'Ware pencils, ho@! let me not die your debtor, My red dominical, my golden letter @O that your face were not so full of O's@! Kath.@A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all  was sent to you from fair Dumain @Kath.@Madam, this glove. @Prin.Did he not send you twain Kath.Yes, madam, and moreover@ Some thousand verses of a faithful lover, A huge translation of hypocrisy, Vilely compiled, profound simplicity. Mar.@This@ and these pearls@ to me sent Longa@ville The letter is too long by half a mile. Prin.@I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart@ The chain were longer@ and the letter short@@ Mar.@Ay, or I would these hands might never part. Prin.We are wise girls@ to mock our lovers so. Ros.@They are worse fools@ to purc@hase mocking so. That same Biron I'll torture ere I go@ O that I knew he were but in by the week! How I would make him fawn@ and be@g and seek And wait the season@ and observe the times@ And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes And shape his service wholly to my @@hests@ And make hi@m proud to make me proud that jests! So perttaunt-like would I o'ersway his state@ That he should be my fool@ and I his fate. Prin.@None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd, As wit turn'd fool folly, in wisdom hatch'd. Hath wisdom's warrant@ and the help of school And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool. Ros.The blood of youth burns not with such exce@ss As gravity's revolt to wantonness. Mar.@Folly in fools bears not so strong a note@ As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote Since all the power thereof it doth apply@ To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.  comes Boyet, and mirth is in his  I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her grace@ Prin.@Thy news, Boyet@@ Boyet.Prepare, madam, prepare! Arm, wenches, arm! encounters mounted are Against your peace Love doth approach disguised, Armed in arguments you'll be surprised Muster your wits stand in your own defence Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence. Prin.@Saint De@nis to Saint Cupid! What are they@ That charge their breath against us @@say, scout, say. Boyet.Under the cool shade of a sycamore@ I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour When, lo! to interrupt my purposed rest, Toward that shade I might behold addrest The king and his companions warily I stole into a neighbour thicket by, And overheard what you shall overhear, That, by and by, disguised they will be here. Their herald is a pretty knavish page, That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage Action@ and accent@ did they teach him there 'Thus  bear And ever and anon they made a doubt@ Presence majestical would put him out 'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see Yet fear not thou, but speak  boy  evil I   had she been a devil.' With that, all laug@h'd@ and clapp'd him on the shoulder, Making the bold wag by their praises bolder@ One rubb'd his elbow thus, and fleer'd@ and swore@ A better speech was never spoke before Another, wit@h his finger and his thumb,  will do't,  The third he caper'd, and  @fourth turn'd on the toe, and down @he fell. Wit@h that, they all did tumble on the ground, With such a zealous laughter, so profound, That in this spleen ridiculous appears, To check their folly, passion's solemn tears. Prin.But what, but what, come they to visit us @@Boyet.They do, they do and are apparell'd thus, Like Muscovites@ or Russians, as I guess. Their purpose is@ to parle, to cour@t and dance And every one his love-feat will advance Unto his several mistress, which they'll know By favo@rs several@ which they did bestow. Prin.And will they so@ the gallants shall be task'd @For, ladies, we will every one be mask'd And not a man of them shall have the grace, Despite of suit, to see a lady's face. Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear, And then the king will court thee for his dear Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine, So shall Biron take me for Rosaline. And change you favo@rs too so shall your loves Woo contrary, deceived by these removes. @Ros.Co@me on, then wear the favours most in sight. @Kat@h.@But@ in this changing@ what is your intent @@Prin.@The effect of my intent is@ to cross theirs They do it but in mocking merriment And mock for mock is only my intent. Their several counsels they unbosom shall To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal@ Upon the next occasion that we meet, With visages display'd, to talk@ and greet. Ros.But shall we dance, if they desire us to't@ Prin.No, to the death, we will not move a foot Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace, But@ while 'tis spoke@ each turn away @her face. Boyet.Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart, And quite divorce his memory from his part. @Prin.Therefore I do it and@ I make no doubt@ The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out@ There's no such sport@ as sport by sport o'erthrown, To make theirs ours@ and ours none but our own So shall we stay, mocking intended game, And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame. Trumpets  wit@hin. Boyet.The trumpet sounds be mask'd@ the maskers come. The Ladies mask. .Beauties no richer than rich taffeta. Moth.@A holy  The Ladies turn their backs to him. That ever turn'd their--backs--to mortal  villain, their @That ever turn'd their mortal  out@ indeed. Moth.@  to behold, rogue. .They will not answer to that epithet You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.' Moth.@They do not mark me, and that brings me out. Biron.Is this your perfectne@ss be gone, you  would these strangers@@ know their minds, Boyet If they do speak our language, 'tis our will That some plain man recount their purposes Know what they would. Boyet.What would you with the prince@s@s Biron.Nothing but peace@ and gentle visitation. @Ros.What would they, say they @@Boyet.Nothing but peace@ and gentle visitation. Ros.Why, that they have and bid them so be gone. Boyet.She says, you have it, and you may be gone. King.Say to her, we have measured many miles@ To tread a measure with her on this grass. Boyet.They say, that they have measured many a mile@ To tread a measure with you on this grass. Ros.@It is not so. Ask them@ how many inches Is in one mile if they have measured many, The measure then of one is easily told. Boyet.If@ to come hither you have measured miles, And many miles, the princess bids you tell How many inches doth fill up one mile. Biron.Tell her, we measure them by weary steps. Boyet.She hears herself. Ros.@How many weary steps, Of many weary miles you have o'ergone, Are number'd in the travel of one mile Biron.We number nothing that we spend for you Our duty is so rich, so infinite, That we may do it still without accompt. Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face, That we, like savages, may worship it. @Ros.My face is but a moon, and clouded too. King.Blessed are clouds, t@@o do as such clouds do! Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine, Those clouds removed, upon our watery eyne. @Ros.O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water. King.Then, in our measure do but vouchsafe one change. Thou bid'st me beg this begging is not strange. Ros.Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon. Music plays. Not yet! no dance! Thus change I like the moon. King.Will you not dance @@How come you thus estranged@@ Ros.@You took the moon at full, but now she's changed. King.Yet still she is the moon, and I the man. The music plays vouchsafe some motion to it. @Ros.Our ears vouchsafe it. King.But your legs should do it. Ros.Since you are strangers@ and co@me here by chance, We'll not be nice take hands. We will not dance. King@.@Why take we hands, then @@@Ros.@Only to part friends C@urt@sy, sweet hearts and so the measure ends. King.More measure of this measure be not nice. Ros.We can afford no more at such a price. King.Prize you yourselves what buys your company@ Ros.Your absence only. @King.@That can never be. Ros.Then cannot we be bought and so, adieu Twice to your visor, and half once to you. Ki@ng.@If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat. @Ros.@In private, then. King.I am best pleased with that. They  apart. Biron.White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee. Prin.@Honey, and milk, and sugar there is three. Biron.Nay then, two treys, and if you grow so nice, Metheglin, wort, and malmsey @well run, dice! There's half a dozen sweets. @Prin.@Seven@th sweet, adieu@ Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you. Biron.One word in secret. Prin.@Let it not be sweet. Biron.Thou grievest my gall. Prin.@Gall! bitter. Biron.Therefore meet. They converse apa@Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word@@ @Mar.@Name it. Dum.Fair lady,-~ Mar.@Say you so @@Fair lord,-~Take that for your fair lady. Dum.Please it you, As much in private, and I'll bid adieu. Kath.What, was your vizard made without a tongue@ Long.@I know the reason, lady, why you ask. Kath.O for your reason! quickly, sir I long. Long.@You have a double tongue within your mask, And would afford my speechless vizard half. Kath.Veal, quoth the Dutchman. Is not 'veal' a calf @@Long.@A calf, fair lady! Kath.No, a fair lord calf. Long.Let's part the word. @Kath.@No, I'll not be your half Take all, and wean it it may prove an ox. Long.Look, how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks@! Will you give horns, chaste lady@ do not so. Kath.Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.@@One word in private with you, ere I die. Kath.Bleat softly then@ the butcher hears you cry. They converse  tongues of mocking wenches are as keen As is the razor's edge invisible. Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen, Above the sense of sen@se so sensible Seemeth their conference their conceits have wings@ Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things. @Ros.@Not one word more, my maids break off, break off. Biron.By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff! King.@Farewell, mad wenches You have simple wits. Prin.Twenty adieus, my frozen  Are these the breed of wits so wonder'd at @Boyet.@Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out. Ros.Well-liking wits they have gross, gross fat, fat. @Prin.@O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout! Will they not, think you, hang themselves to@night@@ Or ever, but in vizards, show their faces@ This pert Biron was out of countenance quite. Ros.@O, they were all in lamentable cases! The king was weeping-ripe for a good word. Prin.@Biron did swear himself out of all suit. Mar.@Dumain was at my service, and his sword No point, quoth I my servant straight was mute. Kath.Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart And trow you@ what he call'd mePrin.Qualm, perhaps. Kath.Yes, in good faith. @Prin.Go, sickness as thou art! Ros.Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps. But will you hear@ the king is my love sworn. Prin.@And quick Biron hath plighted faith to me. Kath.And Longaville was for my service born. Mar.Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree. Boyet.Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear Immediately they will again be here In their own shapes for it can never be@ They will digest this harsh indignity. Prin.@Will they return @@Boyet.They will, they will, God knows, And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows Therefore@ change favo@rs and, when they repair, Blow like sweet roses in this summer air. Prin.@How blow@ how blow@ speak to be understood. Boyet.Fair ladies@ mask'd@ are roses in their bud Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown, Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown. Prin.@Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do, If they return in their own shapes to woo @Ros.@Good madam, if by me you'll be advised, Let's mock them still, as well known@ as disguised Let us complain to them what fools were here, Disguised like Muscovites, in shapeless gear And wonder@ what they were and to what end Their shallow shows@ and prologue vilely penn'@d And their rough carriage so ridiculous, Should be presented at our tent to us. Boyet.Ladies, withdraw the gallants are at hand. Prin.Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.  the prince@s@s Boyet.Gone to @her tent. Please it your majesty@ Command me any service to her thitherg.That she vouchsafe me audience for one word. Boyet.I will and so will she, I know, my lord.  fellow pecks up wit@ as pigeons pease, And utters it again when God doth please He is wit's pedler, and retails his wares At wakes@ and wassails, meetings, markets, fair@s And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know, Have not the grace to grace it with such show. This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve A' can carve too, and lisp why, this is he@ That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice, That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice In honourable terms nay, he can sing A mean most meanly and@ in ushering@ Mend him who can the ladies call him@ sweet The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet This is the flower that smiles on every one, To show his teeth as white as whale's bone And consciences, that will not die in debt, Pay him the due of honey-tongued Boyet. King@.@A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart, That put Armado's page out of his part!  where it co@mes! Behaviour, what wert thou@ Till this madman show'd thee@ and what art thou  of day! Prin.'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive. King.Construe my speeches better, if you may. Prin.@Then wish me better@ I will give you leave. King.We came to visit you, and purpose now To lead you to our court vouchsafe it then. Prin.@This field shall hold me and so hold your vow Nor God, nor I, delights in perjured men. King.Rebuke me not for that which you provoke The virtue of your eye must break my oath. Prin.You nick@na@me virtue vice you should have spoke For virtue's office never breaks men's troth. Now@ by my maiden honour, yet as pure As the unsullied lily, I protest, A world of torments though I should endure, I would not yield to be your house's guest So much I hate a breaking cause to be Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity. King.O, you have lived in desolation here, Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame. Prin.@Not so, my lord it is not so, I swear We have had pastimes here@ and pleasant game A mess of Russians left us but of late. King.How, madam! .Ay, in truth, my lord Trim gallants, full of courtship@ and of state. Ros.@Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord My lady, to the manner of the days, In courtesy@ gives undeserving praise. We four@ indeed@ confronted were with four In Russian habit here they stay'd an hour, And talk'd apace and in that hour, my lord. They did not bless us with one happy word. I dare not call them fools but this I think, W@hen they are thirsty, fools would fain have drink. Biron.This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet, Your wit makes wise things foolish when we greet, With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye, By light we lose light your capacity Is of that nature@ that to your huge store Wise things seem foolish@ and rich things but poor. @Ros.@This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye,-~ Biron.I a@m a fool, and full of poverty. Ros.@But that you take what doth to you belong, It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue. Biron.O, I am yours, and all that I possess! Ros.@All the fool mine@@ Biron.I cannot give you less. Ros.@Which of the vizards was it@ that you wore Biron.Where@ when@ what vizard why demand you this @Ros.@There, then, that vizard that superfluous case@ That hid the worse@ and show'd the better face. King.We are descried they'll mock us now downright. Dum.Let us confe@ss and turn it to a jest. @Prin.Amazed, my lord@ why looks your highness sad@ Ros.Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale @@Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy. Biron.Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury. Can any face of brass hold longer out@ Here stand I@ lady, dart thy skill at me Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit And I will wish thee never more to dance, Nor never more in Russian habit wait. O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd, Nor to the motion of a school@boy's tongue, Nor never co@me in vizard to my friend, Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song! Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise, Three-piled hyperboles, spruce affectation, Figures pedantical these summer-flies Have blown me full of maggot ostentation I do forswear them and I here protest, By this white glove,--how white the hand, God knows!-~Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd In russet yeas@ and honest kersey noes And, to begin, wench,--so God help me, la!-~My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw. @Ros.@Sans sans, I pray you. Biron.Yet I have a trick Of the old rage @bear with me, I am sick I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see @Write, 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three They are infected@ in their hearts it lies They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes These lords are visited you are not free, For the Lord's tokens on you do I see. Prin.@No, they are fre@e that gave these tokens to us. Biron.Our states are forfeit@ seek not to undo us. @Ros.@It is not so for how can this be true, That you stand forfeit, being those that sue Biron.Peace! for I will not have to do with you. @Ros.@Nor shall not, if I do as I intend. Biron.Speak for yourselves@ my wit is at an end. King.@Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude trans@gression Some fair excuse. @Prin.The fairest is confession. Were not you here@ but even now@ disguised @King.@Madam, I was. Prin.@And were you well ad@.I was, fair madam. Prin.@When you then were @here, What did you whisper in your lady's ear King.That more than all the world I did respect her. Prin.@When she shall challenge this, you will reject her. King.Upon mine honour, no. Prin.@Peace, peace! forbear Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear. King.@Despise me, when I break this oath of mine. Prin.@I will and therefore keep it. Rosaline, What did the Russian whisper in your ear@@ Ros.@Madam, he swore@ that he did hold me dear As precious eye@sight, and did value me Above this world adding thereto@ moreover@ That he would wed me, or else die my lover. Prin.@God give thee joy of him! the noble lord Most hono@rably doth unhold his word. King.What mean you, madam@@ by my life, my troth, I never swore this lady such an oath. Ros.By heaven, you did and to confirm it plain, You gave me this but take it, sir, again. King.My faith@ and this@ the princess I did give I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve. Prin.@Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear And Lord Biron, I thank him, is my dear. What, will you have me, or your pearl again@ Biron.Neither of either I remit both twain. I see the trick on't here was a consent@ Knowing aforehand of our merriment, To dash it like a Christmas comedy Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany, Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick, That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick To make my lady laugh@ when she's disposed, Told our intents before which once disclosed, The ladies did change favours and then we, Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she. Now, to our perjury to add more terror, We are again forsworn, in will@ and error. Much upon this it is @and might not you To Boyet. Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue @@Do not you know my lady's foot by the squier, And laugh upon the apple of her eye @@And stand between her back, sir, and the fire, Holding a trencher, jesting merrily@ You put our page out go, you are allow'd Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud. You leer upon me, do you@ there's an eye@ Wounds like a leaden sword. Boyet.Full merrily Hath this brave manage, this career, been run. Biron.Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace! I have done. Enter COSTARD. Welcome, pure wit! thou partest a fair fray. Cost.@O Lord, sir, they would know@ Whether the three Worthies shall come in@ or no. Biron.What, are there but threeee Cost.@No, sir but it is vara fine, For every one pursents three. Biron.And three times thrice is nine. Cost.@Not so, sir under correction, sir I hope@ it is not so. You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir we know what we know I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir,-~ Biron.Is not nine. Cost.@Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount. Biron.By Jove, I always took three t@imes for nine. Cost.@O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your liv@ing by reckoning, sir. Biron.How much is it @@Cost.@O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors, sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount for mine own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man@@@ in one poor man, Pompion the Great, sir. Biron.Art thou one of the Worthies@@ Cost.It pleased them@ to think me worthy of Pompion the Great for mine own part, I know not the degree of the Worthy, but I am to stand for him. Biron.Go@ bid them prepare. Cost.@We will turn it finely off, sir we will take some care. @Biron, they will shame us@ let them not approach. Biron.We are shame-proof, my lord and 'tis some po@licy To have one show worse than the king's and his company. King.I say@ they shall not come. Prin.@Nay, my good lord, let me o'er@rule you now That sport best pleases@ that doth least know how Where zeal strives to content, and the contents Dies in the zeal of that which it presents@ Their form confounded makes most form in mirth, When great things labo@ring perish in their birth. Biron.A right description of our sport, my lord. Enter  I implore so much expense of thy royal sweet breath as will utter a brace of words. @@@@@Converset wiih the King, and delivers him a .Doth this man serve God @@Biron.Why ask you@ Prin.@He speaks not like a man of God's making. Arm.@That is all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch for, I protest, the school@master is exceeding fantastical too@ too vain, too@ too vain but we will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra. I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement! @Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He presents Hector of Troy the swain, Pompey the Great the parish curate, Alexander Armado's page, Hercules the pedant, Judas Maccabaeus@ And if these four Worthies in their first show thrive, These four will change habits, and present the other five. Biron.There is five in the first show. King.@You are deceived@ 'tis not so. Biron.The pedant, the braggart, the hedge@priest, the fool@ and the boy -~Abate @@throw at novum, and the whole wor@ld again Cannot p@ick out five such, take each one in his vein. King.@The ship is under sail, and here she co@mes @I  lie, you are not he. Cost.@I Pompey .With libbard's head on knee. Biron.Well said, old mocker I must needs be friends with thee. Cost.@I Pompey am, Pompey surnamed the Big,-~ Dum.@The Great. Cost.@It is, 'Great,'  -~Pompey surnamed the Great That  targe and shield, did  travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance, And lay my arms before the legs of  If your ladyship would say,  I had done. Prin.@Great thanks, great Pompey. Cost.@'Tis not so much worth but@ I hope@ I was per@fect I made a little fault in 'Great.' Biron.My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy.  Alexander. Nath.When in the world I lived,  By east, west, north, and  might My scutcheon plain declares@ that I am Alisander,-~ Boyet.Your nose says, no, you are not for it stands too right. Biron.Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling knight. Prin.T@he conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed. good Alexander. Nath.When in the  com@mander,-~ Boyet.Most true, 'tis right you were so, Alisander. Biron.Pompey the Great,-~ Cost.@Your servant, and Costard. Biron.Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander. Cost.@ you have overthrown Alisander the conqueror! You will be scraped out of the painted cloth for this your lion, that holds his poll-axe sitting on a close-stool, will be given to A@jax he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror, and afeard to speak! run away for shame,  an't shallplease you a foolish mild man an honest man, look you, and soon dashed. He is a marvellous good neighbo@r, @@faith, and a very good bowler but, for Alisander,--alas, you see@ how 'tis,--a little o'er@parted. But there are Worthies a-com@ing will speak their mind in some other sort. @Prin.Stand aside, good Pompey.  Hercules. Hol.@Great Hercules is presented by  club kill'd Cerberus,  And@ when he was a babe, a child, a shrimp, Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus. Quoniam he seemeth in minority,  apology. Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish. .A Judas! Hol.@Not Iscariot, sir. Judas I am, @Judas Maccabaeus clipt@ is plain Judas. Biron.A kissing traitor. How art thou proved Judas@  Dum.@The more @shame for you, Judas. Hol.@What mean you, sir@ Boyet.To make Judas hang himself. Hol.@Begin, sir you are my elder. Biron.Well followed Judas was hanged on an elder. Hol.@I will not be put out of countenance. Biron.Because thou hast no face. Hol.What is this@@ Boyet.A cittern-head. Dum.@The head of a bodkin. Biron.A Death's face in a ring. Long.@The face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen. Boyet.The pommel of Caesar's falchion. Dum.@The carved-bone face on a flask. Biron.Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch. Dum.@Ay, and in a brooch of lead. Biron.Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer. And now@ forward for we have put thee in countenance. Hol.@You have put me out of countenance. Biron.False we have given thee faces. Hol.@But you have out-faced them all. Biron.An thou wert a lion, we would do so. Boyet.Therefore, as he is@ an ass, let him go. And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay@ Dum.@For the latter end of his name. Biron.For the ass to the Jude give it him --Jud-as, away! Hol.@This is not generous, not gentle, not humble. Boyet.A light for Monsieur Judas! it grows dark, he may stumble. Hol@@@@@@. s. @Prin.Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited! Enter  Hector. Biron.Hide thy head, Achilles here comes Hector in arms. Dum.@Though my mocks co@me home by me, I will now be merry. King.@Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this. Boyet.But is this Hector @King.@I think@ Hector was not so clean-timbered. Long.@His leg is too big for Hector's. Dum.@More calf, certain. Boyet.No he is best indued in the small. Biron.This cannot be Hector. Dum.@He's a god or a painter for he makes faces.  the almighty, Gave Hector a  gilt nutmeg. Biron.A lemon. Long.Stuck with cloves. Dum.@No, cloven. The armipotent   al@mighty, Gave Hector  Ilion A   morn till night, out of @That mint. Long.That columbine. Arm.@Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue. Long.I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against Hector. Dum.@Ay, and Hector's a greyhound. Arm.@The sweet war-man is dead and rotten sweet chucks, beat not the bones of the buried when he breathed, he was a man. But I will forward with my device.  on me the sense of  brave Hector we are much delight@ed. Arm.@I do adore thy sweet grace's slipper.  her by the foot.  may not by the yard. Arm.@This  far surmounted Hannibal,-~ Cost.@The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone she is two months on her way. @Arm.@What meanest thou@ Cost.@@Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor wench is cast away she's quick the child brags in @her belly already 'tis yours. Arm.@Dost thou infamonize me among potentates @@thou shalt die. Cost.@Then shall Hector be whipped@ for Jaquenetta that is quick by him and hanged@ for Pompey that is dead by him. Dum.@Most rare Pompey! Boyet.Renowned Pompey! Biron.Greater than great, great, great, great@ Pompey! Pompey the Huge! Dum.@Hector trembles. Biron.Pompey is moved. More Ates,@more Ates! stir them on! stir them on! Dum.@Hector will challenge him. Biron.Ay, if a' have no more man's blood in 's belly than will sup a flea. Arm.@By the north pole, I do challenge thee. Cost.I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man I'll slash I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you, let me borrow my arms again. Dum.@Room for the incensed Worthies! Cost.@I'll do it in my shirt. D@um.@Most resolute Pompey! Moth.@Master, let me take you a button@hole lower. Do you not see@ Pompey is uncasing for the combat@ What mean you @@You will lose your reputation. Arm.Gentlemen@ and soldiers, pardon me I will not combat in my shirt. Dum.@You may not deny it Pompey hath made the challenge. Arm.Sweet bloods, I both may and will. Biron.What reason have you for't Arm.The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt I go woolward for penance. Boyet.True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of linen since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none@ but a dish@clout ofJaquenetta's, and that a' wears next his heart for a fav@ur. Enter MERCADE. Mer.@God save you, madam! Prin.@Welcome, Mercade But that thou interrupt'st our merriment. Mer.@I am sorry, madam for the news I bring@ Is heavy in my tongue. The king your father-~ Prin.Dead, for my life! Mer.@Even so my tale is told. Biron.Worthies, away! the scene begins to cloud. Arm.@For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have seen the day of wrong through the little hole of discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier. Exeunt Worthies. King.How fares your majesty @@Prin.@Boyet, prepare I will away to@night. King.Madam, not so I do beseech you, stay. Prin.@Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords, For all your fair endeavours and entreat, Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe In your rich wisdom@ to excuse@ or hide@ The liberal opposition of our spirits, If over-boldly we have borne ourselves In the converse of breath@ your gentleness Was guilty of it. Farewell, worthy lord! A heavy heart bears not a@ nimble tongue Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks For my great suit so easily obtain'd. King.@The extreme parts of time extremely forms All causes to the purpose of his speed, And often@ at his very loose@ decides That which long process could not arbitrate And though the mourning brow of progeny Forbid the smiling courtesy of love@ The holy suit which fain it would convince, Yet, since love's argument was first on foot, Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it From what it purposed since, to wail friends lost@ Is not by much so wholesome@-profitable@ As to rejoice at friends but newly found. Prin.@I understand you not my griefs are double. Biron.Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief @And by these badges understand the king. For your fair sakes have we neglected time, Play'd@ foul play with our oaths your beauty, ladies, Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humo@rs Even to the opposed end of our intents And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,-~As love is full of unbefitting strains, All wanton as a child, skipping@ and vain, Form'd by the eye@ and therefore, like the eye, Full of strange shapes, of habit@s and of forms, Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll To every varied object in his glance Which parti-coated presence of loose love@ Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes, Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities, Those heavenly eyes, that look into these faults, Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies, Our love being yours, the error that love makes Is likewise yours we to ourselves prove false, By being once false for ever to be true To those that make us both,--fair ladies, you And even that falsehood, in itself a sin, Thus purifies itself@ and turns to grace. @Prin.@We have received your letters@ full of love Your favo@rs, the ambassadors of love And, in our maiden council, rated them At courtship, pleasant jest@ and courtesy, As bombast and as lining to the time But more devout than this@ in our respect@s Have we not been and therefore met your loves In their own fashion, like a merriment. Dum.@Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest. Long.@So did our looks. @Ros.We did not quote them so. King.Now, at the latest minute of the hour, Grant us your loves. Prin.@A time, methinks, too short To make a world-without-end bargain in. No, no, my lord, your grace is perjured much, Full of dear guiltiness and@ therefore@ this@ If for my love, as there is no such cause, You will do aught, this shall you do for me Your oath I will not trust but go with speed To some forlorn and naked hermitage, Remote from all the pleasures of the world There stay@ until the twelve celestial signs Have brought about the@@ annual reckoning. If this austere insociable life Change not your offer made in heat of blood If frosts@ and fasts, hard lodging@ and thin weeds@ Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love, But that it bear this trial@ and last love Then, at the expiration of the year, Come challenge me, challenge me by these deserts, And, by this virgin palm@ now kissing thine, I will be thine and@ till that instan@t shut My woeful self up in a mourning house, Raining the tears of lamentation@ For the remembrance of my father's death. If this thou do deny, let our hands part, Neither intitled in the other's heart. King.If this, or more than this, I would deny, To flatter up these powers of mine with rest. The sudden hand of death close up mine eye! Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast. Biron.And what to me, my love@ and what to me@ Ros.You must be purged too, your sins are r@ack'd, You are attaint wit@h faults and perjury Therefore@ if you my favour mean to get, A twelvemonth shall you spend, and never rest, But seek the weary beds of people sick. Dum.@But what to me, my love@ but what to me@ A wife Kath.A beard, fair health, and honesty With three-fold love I wish you all these three. Dum.@O, shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife Kath.Not so, my lord @a twelvemonth and a day I'll mark no words that smooth-faced wooers say Co@me when the king doth to my lady co@me@ Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some. Dum.@I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then. Kath.Yet@ swear not, lest y@e be forsworn again. Long.@What says Maria@ Mar.@At the twelvemonth's end@ I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend. Long.@I'll stay with patience but the time is long. Mar.@The liker you few taller are so young. Biron.Studies my lady@ mistress, look on me@ Behold the window of my heart, mine eye, What humble suit attends thy answer there Impose some service on me for thy love. Ros.@Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Biron, Before I saw you and the world's large tongue Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks, Full of comparisons@ and wounding flouts, Which you on all estates will execute@ That lie within the mercy of your wit. To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain, And@ therewithal@ to win me, if you please, Without the which I am not to be won, You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day Visit the speechless sick@ and still converse With groaning wretches and your task shall be, With all the fierce endeavour of your wit@ To enforce the pained impotent to smile. Biron.To move wild laughter in the throat of death@@ It cannot be it is impossible Mirth cannot move a soul in agony. @Ros.Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit, Who@se influence is begot of that loose grace@ Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools A jest's prosperity lies in the ear Of him that hears it, never in the tongue Of hi@m that makes it then, if sickly ears, Deaf'd with the clamo@rs of their own dear groans, Will hear your idle scorns, continue then, And I will have you@ and that fault withal But@ if they will not, throw away that spirit, And I shall find you empty of that fault, Right joyful of your reformation. Biron.A twelvemonth! well@ befall what will befall, I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital. KingAy, sweet my lord and so I take my @No, madam we will bring you on your way. Biron.Our wooing doth not end like an old play Jack hath not Jill these ladies' courtesy Might well have made our sport a comedy. King.Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day, And then 'twill end. Biron.That's too long for a play.  Arm.@Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me,-~ Prin.@Was not that Hector@ Dum.@The worthy knight of Troy. Arm.@I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am a votary I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her sweet love three years. But, most esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled@ in praise of the owl and the cuckoo@@ it should have followed in the end of our show. King.@Call them forth quickly@ we will do so. Arm.@Holla! approach.  and others. This side is Hiems, Winter, this Ver, the Spring the one maintained by the owl, the other by the cuckoo. Ver, begin. THE  violets blue And  t@hen, on every tree, Mocks married men@ for thus sings he, Cuckoo  a married ear!  oaten stra@ws@ And merry  When turtles tread, and  And maidens bleach their summer  tree, @Mocks married men@ for thus sings he,  When icicles hang by t@he wall  And Tom bears logs into the  milk comes frozen home in When blood is  be foul, Then nightly sings t@he staring owl, Tu-whit  @@a merry note, W@hile greasy  the pot. When all aloud the  And coughing  And birds sit brooding in the snow  nose looks red and raw, When roasted crabs hiss   sings the staring  a merry note, While    Arm.The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of Apollo. You@ that way we@ this way.  fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour Draws on apace fo@r happy days bring in Another moon but, O@, methinks, how slow This old moon wanes! she lingers my desires, Like to a step-dame@ or a dowage@r Long withering out a young man's revenue. Hip.@Four days will quickly steep themselves in night@ Four nights will quickly dream away the time And then the moon, like to a silver bow New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night Of our solemnities. @The.@Go, Philostrate, Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth Turn melancholy forth to funerals@ The pale companion is not for our  I woo'd thee with my sword, And won thy love, doing thee injuries But I will wed thee in another key, With pomp, with triumph@ and with revelling. .Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke! The.Thanks, good Egeus what's the news with thee@ Ege.Full of vexation come I, with complaint Against my child, my daughter Hermia. Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord, This man hath my consent to marry her. Stand forth, Lysander @and, my gracious duke, T@his man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes, And interchanged love-tokens with my child Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung, With feigning voic@e verses of feigning love, And stolen the impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart, Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me, To stubborn harshness @and, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here before your grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient privilege of Athens, As she is mine, I may dispose of her Which shall be either to this gentleman@ Or to her death, according to our law@ Immediately provided in that case. @The.@What say you, Hermia@ be advised, fair maid To you your father should be as a god One that composed your beauties, yea, and one To whom you are but as a form in wax@ By him imprinted@ and within his power To leave the figure@ or disfigure it. Demetrius is a worthy gentleman. Her.@So is Lysander. The.@In himself he is But@ in this kind, wanting your father's voice, The other must be held the worthier. @Her.@I would@ my father look'd but with my eyes. The.Rather your eyes must with his judgement look. Her.@I do entreat your grace to pardon me. I know not by what power I am made bold, Nor how it may concern my modesty, In such a presence here@ to plead my thoughts But I beseech your grace@ that I may know The worst that may befall me in this case, If I refuse to wed Demetrius. The.Either to die the death@ or to abjure For ever the society of men. Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires@ Know of your youth, examine well your blood, Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice, You can endure the livery of a nun, For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd, To live a barren sister all your life, Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon. Thrice-blessed they@ that master so their blood, To undergo such maiden pilgrimage But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd, Than that@ which@ withering on the virgin thorn@ Grows, lives@ and dies@ in single blessedness. Her.So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord, Ere I will yield my virgin patent up Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke My soul consents not to give sovereignty. The.@Take time to pause and, by the next new moon@-~T@he sealing-day betwixt my love and me, For everlasting bond of fellowship-~Upon that day either prepare to die@ For disobedience to your father's will, Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would Or on Diana's altar to protest@ For ay@e austerity and single life. Dem.@Relent, sweet Hermia @and, Lysander, yield, Thy crazed title to my certain right. Lys.You have her father's love, Demetrius Let me have Hermia's do you marry him. Ege.Scornf@ul Lysander! true, he hath my love, And what is mine@ my love shall render him. And she is mine, and all my right of her I do estate unto Demetrius. Lys.@I am, my lord, as well derived as he, As well possess'd my love is more than his My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd, If not with vantage, as Demetrius' And, which is more than all these boasts can be, I am beloved of beauteous Hermia Why should not I then prosecute my right@ Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head, Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena, And won her soul and she, sweet lady, dotes, Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry, Upon this spotted and inconstant man. The.I must confe@ss that I have heard so much, And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof But, being over-full of self-affairs, My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, co@me And come, Egeus you shall go with me, I have some private schooling for you both. For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself To fit your fancies to your father's will Or else the law of Athens yields you up-~Which by no means we may extenuate-~To death, or to a vow of single life. Co@me, my Hippolyta what cheer, my love@ Demetriu@s and Egeus, go along I must employ you in some business Against our nuptial and confer with you Of something nearly that concerns yourselves. Ege.@With duty@ and desire@ we follow  now, my love! why is your cheek so pale@ How chance the roses there do fade so fast @Her.@Belike@ for want of rain, which I could well Beteem them from the tempest of m@@y eyes. Lys.@Ay me! for aught that@@@@@  ever read, Could ever hear by tale or history, The course of true love never did run smooth But, either it was different in blood,-~ Her.@O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low. Lys.@Or else misgraffed@ in respect of years,-~ Her.O spite! too old to be engaged to young. Lys.@Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,-~ Her.O hell! to choose love by another's eyes. Lys.@Or, if there were a sympathy in choice, War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it, Making it momentany as a sound, Swift as a shadow, short as any dream Brief as the lightning in the collied night, That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth, And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!' The jaws of darkness do devour it up So quick bright things come to confusion. Her.@If then true lovers have been ever cross'd, It stands as an edict in destiny Then let us teach our trial patience, Because it is a customary cross, As due to love@ as thoughts@ and dreams@ and sighs, Wishes@ and tears, poor fancy's followers. Lys.@A good persuasion therefore, hear me, Hermia. I have a widow aunt, a dowager Of great revenue, and she hath no child From Athens is her house remote seven leagues And she respects me as her only son, There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee And to that place the sharp Athenian law Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then, Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night And in the wood, a league without the town, Where I did meet thee once with Helena, To do observance to a morn of May, There will I stay for thee. Her.@My good Lysander! I swear to thee, by Cupid's strongest bow, By his best arrow with the golden head, By the simplicity of Venus' doves, By that which knitteth souls@ and prospers loves, And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen, When the false Troyan under sail was seen, By all the vows that ever men have broke, In number more than ever women spoke, In that same place thou hast appointed me, To-morrow truly will I meet with thee. Lys.@Keep promise, love. Look, here co@mes Helena. Enter HELENA. Her.@God speed, fair Helena! whither away@ Hel.@Call you me fair@ that fair again unsay. Demetrius loves your fair O happy fair! Your eyes are lode-stars and your tongue's sweet air More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear, When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear. Sickness is catching O, were favo@r so, Your@s would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye, My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody. Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated, The rest I'd give to be to you translated. O, teach me how you look, and with what art You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart. Her.@I frown upon him, yet he loves me still. Hel.O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill! Her.@I give him curses, yet he gives me love. Hel.@@O that my prayers could such affection move! Her.@The m@ore I hate, the more he follows me. Hel.The more I love, the more he hateth me. Her.His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine. Hel.@None, but your beauty @would that fault were mine@@! Her.@Take comfort he no more shall see my face Lysander and myself will fly this place. Before the time I did Lysander see, Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me O, then, what graces in my love do dwell, That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell! Lys.@Helen, to you our minds we will unfold To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold Her silver visage in the watery glass, Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass, A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal, Through Athens' gates we have devised to steal. Her.@And in the wood, where often you and I Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie, Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet, There my Lysander and myself shall meet And thence@ from Athens@ turn away our eyes, To seek new friends and stranger companies. Farewell, sweet playfellow pray thou for us@ And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius! Keep word, Lysander we must starve our sight Fro@m lovers' food@ till morrow deep midnight. @@Lys.@I will, my  adieu As you on him, Demetrius dote on  happy some@ o'er other some@ can be! Through Athens I am thought as fair as she. But what of that@ Demetrius thinks not so He will not know what all but he do know@ And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes, So I, admiring of his qualities@ Things base and vile, holding no quantity, Love can transpose to form and dignity@ Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind Nor hath Love's mind of any judgement taste Wings@ and no eyes@ figure unheedy haste And therefore is Love said to be a child, Because in choice he is so oft beguiled. As waggish boys in game themselves forswear, So the boy Love is perjured every where For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne, He hail'@d down oaths@ that he was only mine And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt, So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did melt. I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight Then to the wood will he@ to-morrow night@ Pursue her and for this intelligence If I have thanks, it is a dear expense But herein mean I to enrich my pain, To have his sight thithe@r and back again. @Is all our company here@ Bot.@You were best to call them generally, man by man, according to the scrip. Quin.Here is the scroll of every man's name, which is thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our inter@lude before the duke and the duchess, on his wedding-day at night. Bot.@First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats on, then read the names of the actors, and so grow to a point. Quin.@Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby. Bot.@A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves. Quin.Answer@ as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver. Bot.@Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed. Quin.@You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus. Bot.@What is Pyramus@ a lover, or a tyrantn.A lover, that kills himself most gal~lant@@ for love. Bot.That will ask some tears in the true performing of it if I do it, let the audience look to their eyes I will move storms, I will condole in some measure. To the rest @yet my chief humo@r is for a tyrant I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to tear a cat in, to make all split. The raging rocks@ @And shivering shocks@ Shall break@ the locks Of prison gates And Phibbus' car Shall shine from far@ And make and mar The foolish Fates. This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players. This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein a lover is more con@doling. Quin.Francis Flute, the bellows-mender. Flu.@Here, Peter Quince. Quin.Flute, you must take Thisby on you, Flu.@What is Thisby@ a wandering knight@ Quin.@It is the lady that Pyramus must love. Flu.@Nay, faith, let me not play a woman I have a beard coming. Quin.That's all one you shall play it in a mask, and you may speak as small as you will. Bot.@An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too, I'll speak in a monstrous little  my lover dear! thy Thisby dear, and lady dear!' Quin.No, no you must play Pyramus@ and, Flute, you Thisby. Bot.@Well, proceed. Quin.@Robin Starveling, the tailor. Star.Here, Peter Quince. Quin.Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother. @Tom Snout, the tinker. Snout.@Here, Peter Quince. Quin.You, Pyramus'@@father myself, Thisby's father @Snug, the joiner@ you, the lion's part @and, I hope, here is a play fitted. Snug.@Have you the lion's part written@ pray you, if it be, give it me, for I am slow of study. Quin.You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring. Bot.Let me play the lion too I will roar, that I will do any man's heart good to hear me I will roar, that I will make the duke say 'Let him roar again, let him roar again.' Quin.An you should do it too terribly, you would fright the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek and that were enough to hang us all. All.That would hang us, every mother's son. Bot.@I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the ladies out of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us but I will aggravate my voice so@ that I will roar you as gently as any sucking dove I will roar you an 'twere any nightingale. Quin.You can play no part but Pyramus for Pyramus is a sweet-faced man a proper man, as one shall see in a summer's day a most lovely@ gentleman-like man there@fore you must needs play Pyramus. Bot.@Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best to play it in@ Quin.@Why, what you will. Bot.@I will discharge it in either your straw-colo@r@@ beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain beard, or your French~crown-colo@r beard, your perfect yellow. Quin.@Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then you will play bare~faced. But, masters, here are your parts and I am to entreat you, request you@ and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the town, by moon@light there will we rehearse, for if we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with company, and our devices known. In the mean@time@ I will draw a bill of properties, such as our play wants. I pray you, fail me not. Bot.@We will meet and there we may rehearse most obscenely@ and courageously. Take pains be perfect adieu. Quin.@At the duke's oak we meet. Bot.@Enough hold@ or cut bow-strings. .How now, spirit! whither wander you@ Fai.@Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire, I do wander every where, Swifter than the moon's sphere And I serve the fairy queen, To dew her orbs upon the green. The cowslips tall her pensioners be In their gold coats spots you see Those be rubies, fairy favo@rs, In those freckles live their savo@rs@ I must go seek some dew@drops here@ And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear. Farewell, thou lob of spirits@ I'll be gone Our queen and all our elves co@me here anon. Puck.The king doth keep his revels here to-night Take hee@d the queen come not within his sight@ For Oberon is passing fell and wrath, Because that she@ as her attendant@ hathg lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king She never had so sweet a changeling And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild But she@ perforce@ withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers@ and makes him all her joy And now they never meet in grove@ or green, By fountain clear, or spangled star@light sheen, But they do square, that all their elves@ for fear@ Creep into acorn-cups@ and hide them there. Fai.Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite@ Call'd Robin Good@fellow are not you he@ That frights the maidens of the viilagery Skim milk, and sometimes labo@r in the quern@ And bootless make the breathless housewife churn And sometime make the drink to bear no barm Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm@ Those that Hobgoblin call you@ and sweet Puck, You do their work, and they shall have good luck Are not you he@ Puck.@Thou speak'st aright I am that merry wanderer of the night. I jest to Oberon@ and make him smile@ When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl, In very likeness of a roasted crab, And@ when she drinks, against her lips I bob@ And on her wither'd dew@lap pour the ale. The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me Then slip I from her bum, down topples she, And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough And then the whole quire hold their hips@ and laugh, And waxen in their mirth@ and neeze@ and swear A merrier hour was never wasted there. But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon. Fai.@And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!  his  Obe.@Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania. Tita.What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence I have forsworn his bed and company. Obe.@Tarry, rash wanton am not I thy lord@ Tita.Then I must be thy lady but I know When thou hast stolen away from fairy land, And in the shape of Corin sat all day, Playing on pipes of corn@ and versing love To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here, Co@me from the farthest steppe of India @@But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskin'd mistre@ss and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity. Obe.@How canst thou thus@ for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Knowing I know thy love to Theseus@@ Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night From Perigenia, whom he ravished@ And make him with fair AEgle break his faith, With Ariadne@ and Antiopa Tita.These are the forgeries of jealousy And never, since the middle summer's spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest@ or mead, By paved fountain@ or by rushy brook, Or in the beached margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport. Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea Contagious fogs which falling in the land@ Have every pelting river made so proud@ That they have overborne their continents The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain, The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted@ ere his youth attain'd a beard The fold stands empty in the drowned field, And crows are fatted with the murrion flock The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud, And the quaint mazes in the wanton green@ For lack of tread@ are undistinguishable The human mortals want their winter here No night is now with hymn or carol blest @Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound And@ thorough this distemperature@ we see The seasons alter hoary-headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose, And on old Hiems' thin@ and icy crown@ An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is, as in mockery, set the spring, the summer, The childing autumn, ang@ry winter, change Their wonted liveries, and the @mazed world, By their increase, now knows not which is which And this same progeny of evils comes From our debate, from our dissension We are their parents and original. Obe.@Do you amend it then it lies in you Why s@hould Titania cross her Obero@n I do but beg a little changeling boy, To be my henchman. Tita.Set your heart at rest@ The fairy land buys not the child of me. His mother was a votaress of my order And, in the spiced Indian air, by night, Full often hath she gossip'@d by my side, And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking the embarked traders on the flood, When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive@ And grow big-bellied@ with the wanton wind Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait@ Following,--her womb@ then rich with my young @squire,-~Would imitate, and sail upon the land, To fetch me trifles, and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise. But she, being mortal, of that boy did die And@ for her sake do I rear up her boy, And@ for her sake@ I will not part with him. Obe.@How long within this wood intend you stay Tita.Perchance@ till after Theseus' wedding-day. If you will patiently dance in our round@ And see our moonlight revels, go with us If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts. Obe.@Give me that boy, and I will go with thee. Tita.Not  fairy kingdom. Fairies, away! We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.  train. Obe.@Well, go thy way thou shalt not from this grove@ Till I torment thee for this injury. My gentle Puck, co@me hither. Thou rememb@rest Since once I sat upon a promontory, And heard a mermaid@ on a dolphin's back@ Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath@ That the rude sea grew civil at her song And certain stars shot madly from their spheres, To hear the sea-maid's music. Puck.I remember. Obe.@That very time I saw, but thou could@st not, Flying between the cold moon and the earth, Cupid all arm'd a certain aim he took At a fair vestal@ throned by the west, And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow, As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft Quench'd in the chaste beams of the watery moon, And the imperial votaress passed on, In maiden meditation, fancy-free. Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell It fell upon a little western flower, Before@ milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call i@t love-in-idleness. Fetch me that flower the herb I shew'@d thee once The juice of it@ on sleeping eye-lids laid@ Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees. Fetch me this herb and be thou here again@ Ere the leviathan can swim a league. Puck.I'll put a girdle round about the earth In forty minutes. @Exit. Obe.@Having once this juice, I'll watch Titania when she is asleep, And drop the liquor of it in her eyes. The next thing then she waking looks upon, Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape, She shall pursue it with the soul of lov@e And ere I take this charm @from off her sight, As I can take it with another herb, I'll make her render up her page to me. But who co@mes here@ I am invisible And I will overhear their conference. Enter  Dem.@I love thee not, therefore pursue me not. Where is Lysander@ and fair Hermia@ The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me. Thou told'st me@ they were stolen unto this wood@ And here am I, and wode within this wood, Because I cannot meet @@my Hermia. Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more. Hel.@You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel leave you your power to draw, And I shall have no power to follow you. Dem.@Do I entice you@ do I speak you fair@ Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth Tell you, I do not, nor I cannot love you@ Hel.@And even for that do I love you the more. I am your spaniel and, Demetrius, The more you beat me, I will fawn on you Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me only give me leave, Unworthy as I am, to follow you. What worser place can I beg in your love,-~And yet a place of high respect with me,-~Than to be used as you use your dog@ Dem.@Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit For I am sick@ when I do look on thee. Hel.@And I am sick@ when I look not on you. Dem.@You do impeach your modesty too much, To leave the city@ and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not To trust the opportunity of night@ And the ill counsel of a desert plac@e With the rich worth of your virginity. Hel.Your virtue is my privilege for that@ It is not night@ when I do see your face, Therefore I think I am not in the night Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you@ in my respect@ are all the world Then how can it be said@ I am alone, When all the world is here to look on me Dem.I'll run from thee@ and hide me in the brakes, And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts. Hel.The wildest hath not such a heart as you. Run when you will, the story shall be changed Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase The dove pursues the griffin the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger bootless speed, When cowardice pursues@ and valo@r flies. Dem.@I will not stay thy questions let me go Or, if thou follow me, do not believe But I shall do thee mischief in the wood. Hel.Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius! Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex We cannot fight for love, as men may do We should be woo'd@ and were not made to woo. I'll follow thee@ and make a heaven of hell, To die upon the hand I love so @Fare thee well, nymph ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly hi@m and he shall seek thy love. Re-enter PUCK. Hast thou the flower there@ Welcome, wanderer. Puck.Ay, there it is. Obe.@I pray thee, give it me. I know a bank where@@ the wild thyme blows, Where ox@lips and the nodding violet grows, Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet musk-roses@ and with eglantine There sleeps Titania@ some@time of the night, Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes, And make her full of hateful fantasies. Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove A sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth anoint his eyes But do it@ when the next thing he espies May be the lady thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on. Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her@ than she upon her love And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow. Puck.Fear not, my lord, you@ servant shall do so. .Co@me, now a roundel@ and a fairy song Then, for the third part of a minute, hence Some@ to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds, Some@ war with rere-mice for their leathern wings, To make my small elves coats, and some@ keep back The clamorous owl@ that nightly hoots@ and wonders At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep Then to your offices@ and let me  spotted snakes@  hedge@hogs, be not seen Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong, Come not near  with melody@ Sing in our sweet lullaby @@@Lulla, lulla, lulla, lullaby Never harm, Nor spell nor charm, Come our lovely lady nigh So, good night, @with lullaby.  spiders, conme not here Hence,  Beetles black,  Worm nor snail, do no offence. Philomel, with melody, c. Fai.Hence, away! now all i@s well One@ aloof@ stand sentinel.  Do it for thy true-love take, Love@ and languish for his sake Be it ounce, or cat, or bear, Pard, or boar with bristled hair, In thy eye that shall appear When thou wakest, it is thy dear Wake@ when some vile thing is near. Exit.  Lys.@Fair love, you faint with wandering is the wood And to speak troth, I have forgot our way We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good, And tarry for the comfort of the day.  it so, Lysander find you out a bed@ For I upon this bank will rest my head. Lys.@One turf shall serve as pillow for us both One heart, one bed, two bosoms@ and one troth. Her.Nay, good Lysander for my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet, do not lie so near. Lys.@O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence! Love@ takes the meaning@ in love's conference. I mean, that my heart unto yours is knit So that but one heart we can make of it Two bosoms interchained with an oath So then@ two bosoms@ and a single troth. Then@ by your side no bed-room me deny For@ lying so, Hermia, I do not lie. Her.@Lysander riddles very prettily Now much beshrew my manners and my pride, If Hermia meant to say@ Lysander lied. But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy Lie further off in human modesty, Such separation@ as@ may well be said@ Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid, So far be distant and, good night, sweet friend Thy love ne'er alter@ till thy sweet life end! Lys.@Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I And then end life@ when I end loyalty! Here is my bed sleep give thee all his rest! Her.@With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd! They  have I gone, But Athenian found I none, On whose eyes I might approve This flower's force in stirring love. Night and silence.--Who is here@ Weeds of Athens he doth wear This is he, my master said, Despised the Athenian maid And here the maiden, sleeping sound, On the dank and dirty ground. Pretty soul! she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy. Churl, upon thy eyes I throw All the power this charm doth owe. When thou wakest, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eye@lid@ So awake@ when I am gone For I must now to Oberon. Exit.   Hel.Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius. Dem.@I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus. Hel.O, wilt thou darkling leave me@ do not so. Dem.@Stay, on thy peril I alone will go.  I am out of breath@ in this fond chase! The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies For she hath blesssed@ and attractive eyes. How came her eyes so bright@ Not with salt tears If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers. No, no, I am as ugly as a bear For beasts that meet me@ run away for fear Therefor@e no marvel@ though Demetrius Do, as a monster, fly my presence thus. What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne@ But who is here@ Lysander! on the ground! Dea@d or asleep@ I see no blood, no wound. Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake. Lys. Awaking And run through fire I will@ for thy sweet sake@@@@@@. Transparent Helena! Natu@@@@@re shows art, That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart. Where is Demetrius@@ O, how fit a word Is that vile name@ to perish on my sword! Hel.@Do not say so, Lysander say not so What though he love your Hermia@ Lord, what though@ Yet Hermia still loves you then be content. Lys.@Content with Hermia@! No I do repent The tedious minutes I with her have spent. Not Hermia@ but Helena I love Who will not change a raven for a dove @@The will of man is by his reason sway'd And reason says you are the worthier maid. Things growing are not ripe until their season So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will@ And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook Love's stories@ written in love's richest book. Hel.Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born @@When@ at your hands@ did I deserve this scorn@ Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man, That I did never, no, nor never can, Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye, But you must flout my insufficiency@ Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, In such disdainful manner me to woo. But fare you well perforce I must confe@ss I thought you lord of more true gentleness. O, that a lady, of one man refused, Should@ of another@ therefore be abused! @Exit. Lys.@She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there And never may@st thou co@me Lysander near! For@ as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings, Or@ as the heresies@ that men do leave@ Are hated most of those they did deceive, So thou, my surfeit@ and my heresy, Of all be hated, but the most of me! And, all my powers, address your love and might@ To hono@r Helen@ and to be her knight!  me, Lysander, help me! do thy best@ To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast! Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here! Lysander, look@ how I do quake with fear Methought@ a serpent eat my heart away, And you sat smiling at his cruel prey. Lysander! what, removed@ Lysander! lord! What, out of hearing@ gone@ no sound, no word@ Alack, where are you@ speak, an if you hear Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear. No @@then I well perceive you are not nigh Either death@ or you I'll find immediately. @Are we all met@@ Quin.@Pat, pat and here's a marvellous convenient place for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house and we will do it in action@ as we will do it before the duke. Bot.@Peter Quince,-~ Quin.What sayest thou, bully Bottom Bot.There are things in this comedy of  that will never please. First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill him~self which the ladies cannot abide. How answer you that@ Snout.@By'r lakin, a parlous fear. Star.@I believe@ we must leave the killing out, when all is done. Bot.@Not a whit I have a device to make all well. Write me a prologue and let the prologue seem to say, we will do no harm with our swords and that Pyramus is not killed indeed and, for the more better assurance, tell t@ell that I, Pyramus, am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver this will put them out of fear. Quin.Well, we will have such a prologue and it shall be written in eight and six. Bot.No, make it two more let it be writ~ten in eight and eight. Snout.Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion @@Star.@I fear it, I promise you. Bot.@Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves to bring in--God shield us!--a lion among ladies@ is a most dreadful thing for there is not a more fearful wild-fowl than your lion@ living and we ought to look to 't. Snout.Therefore@ another prologue must tell@ he is not a lion. Bot.Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same  --or 'Fair ladies,--I would wish you,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would entreat you, --not to fear, not to tremble my life for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life no, I am no such thing I am a man as other men are ' and there@ in~deed@ let him name his name, and tell them plainly@ he is Snug the joiner. Quin.Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things that is, to bring the moon@light into a chamber for, you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moon@light. Snout.@Doth the moon shine@ that night we play our play Bot.A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac@ find out moon@shine, find out moon~shine. Quin.Yes, it doth shine that night. Bot.@Why, then may you leave a casement of the great chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon may shine in at the casement. Quin.@Ay or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lanthorn, and say@ he co@mes to disfigure, or to present, the person of Moon@shine. Then, there is another thing we must have a wall in the great chamber for Pyramus and Thisby, says the story, did talk through the chink of a wall. Snout.@You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom@ Bot.@Some man or other must present Wall and let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast about him, to signify wall and let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisby whisper. Quin.@If that may be, then all is well. Co@me, sit down, every mother's son, and re~hearse your parts. Pyramus, you begin when you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake and so every one according to his cue. Enter PUCK behind. Puck.What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here, So near the cradle of the fairy queen@@ What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause. Quin.@Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.  flowers of odious  odo@rs.  savo@rs sweet So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear. But@ hark, a voice! stay thou but here a@while, And by and by I will to thee appear.  stranger Pyramus than e'er played  I speak now@ Quin.@Ay, marry, must you for you must understan@d he goes but to see a noise that he heard, and is to co@me again. @Flu.@Most radiant Pyramus, most Of color like the red rose on@ at 'Ninus' tomb,' ma@n why, you must not speak that yet that you answer to Pyramus you speak all your part at once, cues and all. Pyramus enter your cue is past it is,  follow you, I'll lead you about a round, Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound, A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn. Exit. Bot.@Why do they run away@ this is a knavery of them@ to make me afeard. Re-enter  Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee@@ Bot.@What do you see @@you see an a@ss~head of your own,  QUINCE. Quin.@Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art trans@lated. Exit. Bot.@I see their knavery this is to make an ass of me to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir from this place, do what they can I will walk up and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear I am not afraid.  Whose note full many a man doth mark, And dares  indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird@@ who would give a bird the lie, though he cry 'cuckoo' never so Tita.I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note@ So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me@ On the first view@ to say, to swear, I love thee. Bot.@Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that and yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company to~gether now-a-days the more the pity@ that some honest neighbo@rs will not ma@ke them friends. Nay, I can gleek@ upon occasion. Tita.Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful. Bot.@Not so, neither but if I had wit enough to get out of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn. Tita.Out of this wood do not desire to go Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no. I am a spirit@ of no common rate The summer still doth tend upon my state@ And I do love thee therefore, go with me I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, And they s@hall fetch thee jewels from the deep. And sing@ while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep And I will purge thy mortal grossness so@ That thou shalt like an airy spirit go. Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and  shall we go Tita.Be kind and courteous to this gentleman Hop in his walks@ and gambol in his eyes Feed him with apricocks@ and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs@ and mulberries The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And@ for night-tapers@ crop their waxen thighs@ And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes, To have my love to bed@ and to arise And pluck the wings from painted butterflies@ To fan the moon@beams from his sleeping eyes Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies. @Peas.@Hail, mortall .Hail! Bot.@I cry your worship's mercy, heartily@ I beeseech@ your worship's name@. Cob.@Cobweb. Bot.@I shall desire you of more acquaint~ance, good Mas@ter Cobweb if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with you. Your name, honest gentleman@ Peas.@Peaseblossom. Bot.I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash,  and to Master Peascod, your father. Good Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more acquaintance too. @Your name, I beseech you, sir@ Mus.@Mustard@seed. Bot.@Good Master Mustard@seed, I know your patience well that same cowardly, giant~like@ ox-beef hath de@voured many a gentleman of your house I promise you@ your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now. I desire your more acquaintance, good Master Mus~tard@seed. Tita.Co@me, wait upon him lead him to my bower. The @moon@ methinks@ looks with a watery eye And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity. Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently.  OBERON. Obe.@I wonder@ if Titania be awaked Then, what it was that next came in her eye, Whic@h she must dote on in extremity. Enter PUCK. Here comes my messenger. How now, mad spirit! What night-rule now about this haunted grove@@ Puc@k.@My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, A crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play@ Intended for great Theseus' nuptial-day. The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, Who Pyramus presented, in their sport Forsook his scene@ and enter'd in a brake When I did him at this advantage take, An ass's nole I fixed on his head Anon@ his Thisbe must be answered, And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy, As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort, Rising and cawing at the gun's report, Sever themselves@ and madly sweep the sky, So, at his sight, away his fellows fly And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls He murder cries@ and help from Athens calls. Their sense@ thus weak, lost with their fears@ thus strong, Made senseless things begin to do them wrong For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch Some@ sleeves, some@ hats, from yielders all things catch. I led them on in this distracted fear, And left sweet Pyramus translated there When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania waked@ and straightway loved an ass. Obe.@This falls out better than I could devise. But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do@ Puck.@I took him sleeping,--that is finish'd too,-~And the Athenian woman by his side That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed. Enter @Stand close this is the same Athenian. Puck.@This is the woman, but not this the man. Dem.@O, why rebuke you him that loves you so@ Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe. Her.@Now I but chide@ but I should use thee worse, For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse, If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep, Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep, And kill me too. The sun was not so true unto the day@ As he to me would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia@ I'll believe as soon@ This whole earth may be bored and that the moon May through the centre creep@ and so displease Her brother's noon@tide with the Antipodes. It cannot be@ but thou hast murder'd him So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim. Dem.@So should the murder'd look, and so should I, Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere. Her.What's this to my Lysander@ where is he@ Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me@ Dem.@I had rather give his carcass to @my hounds. Her.@Out, dog! out, cur! thou drivest me past the bounds Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then@ Henceforth be never number'd among men! O, once tell true, tell true, even for my sake! Durst thou have look'd upon him@ being awake, And hast thou kill'd him sleeping@ O brave touch! Could not a worm, an adder, do so much@ An adder did it for with doubler tongue Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung. Dem.@You spend your passion on a misprised mood I am not guilty of Lysander's blood Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell. Her.@I pray thee, tell me then that he is well. Dem.@An if I could, what should I get therefor@@e Her.@A privilege@ never to see me more. And from thy hated presence part I so See me no more, whether he be dead or no. Exit. Dem.@There is no following her in this fierce vein Here@ therefor@e for a while I will remain. So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe Which now in some slight measure it will pay, If for his tender here I make some stay. Lies @What hast thou done@ thou hast mistaken quite@ And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true love turn'd@ and not a false turn'd true. Puck.Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth, A million fail, confounding oath on oath. Obe.@About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find All fancy-sick she is@ and pale of cheer, With sighs of love, that costs the fresh blood dear By some illusion see thou bring her here I'll charm his eyes@ against she do appear. Puck.I go, I go look@ how I go, Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow. Exit. Obe. Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid's archery, Sink i@n apple of his eye. When his love he doth espy, Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky. When thou wakest, if she be by, Beg of her for remedy. Re-enter PUCK. Puck. Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee. Shall we their fond pageant see@ Lord, what fools these mortals be! Obe. Stand aside the noise they make@ Will cause Demetrius to awake. Puck. Then will two@ at once@ woo one That must needs be sport alone And those things do best please me@ That befall preposterously. Enter Lysander and Helena. Lys.@Why should you think@ that I should woo in scorn@@ Scorn and derision never co@me in tears Look, when I vow, I weep and vows so born, In their nativity all truth appears. How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true@ Hel.@You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, O devilish holy fray! These vows are Hermia's@ will you give her o'er@ Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh Your vows@ to her and me, put in two scales, Will even weigh, and both as light as tales. Lys.@I had no judgement@ when to her I swore. Hel.@Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er. Lys.@Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.  Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine! To what, my love, shall I compare thine ey@e@ Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow! That pure congealed white, high Taurus@ snow, Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow@ When thou hold'st up thy hand O, let me kiss This princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!  O hell! I see you all are bent To set against me@ for your merriment@ If you were civil@ and knew courtesy, You would not do me thus much injury. Can you not hate me, as I know you do, But you must join@ in souls@ to mock me too@ If you were men, as men you are in show, You would not use a gentle lady so To vow@ and swear@ and superpraise my parts, When@ I am sure@ you hate me with your hearts. You both are rivals, and love Hermia And now both rivals, to mock Helena A trim exploit, a manly enterprise, To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes@ With your derision! none@ of noble sor@t Would so offend a virgin, and extort A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport. Lys.@You are unkind, Demetrius be not so For you love Hermia this@ you know@ I know And here, with all good will, with all my heart, In Hermia's love I yield you up my part And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom I do lov@e and will do till my death. Hel.Never did mockers waste more idle breath. Dem.@Lysander, keep thy Hermia I will none If e'er I loved her, all that love is gone. My heart @@to her but@ as guest-wise@ sojourn'd, And now to Helen is it home return'd, There to remain. Lys.@Helen, it is not so. Dem.@Disparage not the faith thou dost not know, Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear. Look, where thy love comes yonder is thy dear.  Her.@Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, It pays the hearing double recompense. Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound@ But why unkindly did@st thou leave me so@ Lys.@Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go@ Her.@What love could press Lysander from my sid@@e Lys.@Lysander's love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all you fiery oes and eyes of light. Why seek'st thou me@ could not this make thee know, The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so@ Her.@You speak not as you think it cannot be. Hel.@Lo, she is one of this confederacy! Now I perceive they have conjoin'd@ all three@ To fashion this false sport, in spi@te of me. Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid! Have you conspired, have you with these contrived To bait me with this foul derision@ Is all the counsel that we two have shared, The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent, When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us,--O, @is it all forgot@ All school-days' friendship, childhood innocencece We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our needles created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices@ and minds, Had been incorporate. So we grew together, Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition@ Two lovely berries moulded on one stem So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one@ and crowned with one crest. And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend @@It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it, Though I alone do feel the injury. Her.@I am amazed at your passionate words. I scorn you not it seems that you scorn me. Hel.@Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me@ and praise my eyes and face@ And made your other love, Demetrius, Who eve@n but now did spurn me with his foot, To call me goddess, nymph, divine@ and rare, Precious, celestial@@ Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates @@and wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love, so rich within his soul, And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent What though I be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most, to love unloved@ This you should pity@ rather than despise. Her.@I understand not what you mean by this. Hel.@Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when I turn my back Wink each a@t other hold the sweet jest up This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled. If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument. But@ fare ye well 'tis partly m@@y own fault@ Which death@ or absence@ soon shall remedy. Lys.Stay, gentle Helena hear my excuse My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena! Hel.@O excellent! Her.@Sweet, do not scorn her so. Dem.@If she cannot entreat, I can compel. Lys.Thou canst compel no more than she entreat Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers. Helen, I love thee by my life, I do I swear by that which I will lose for thee, To prove him false@ that says I love thee not. Dem.@I say@ I love thee more than he can do. Lys.@If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too. Dem.Quick, come! Her.@Lysander, whereto tends all this @@Lys.@Away, you Ethiope! Dem.@No, no,  Seem to break loose take on@ as you would follow, But yet co@me not you are a tame man, go! Lys.Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! vile thing, let loose, Or I will s@hake thee from me@ like a serpent! Her.@Why are you grown so rude@ what change is this@ Sweet love,-~  love@! out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed medicine! hated potion, hence! Her.@Do you not jest @Hel.@Yes, @sooth and so do you. Lys.@Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee. Dem.I would@ I had your bond, for@ I perceive@ A weak bond holds you I'll not trust your word. Lys.What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead@ Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so. Her.@What, can you do me greater harm@ than hate @@Hate me! wherefore@ O me! what news, my love! Am not I Hermia@@ are not you Lysander @@I am as fair no@w as I was erewhile. Since night@ you loved me yet@ since night@ you left me Why, then you left me--O, the gods forbid!-~In earnest, shall I say@ Lys.@Ay, by my life And never did desire to see thee more. Therefore@ be out of hope, of question, of doubt@ Be certain, nothing truer 'tis no jest@ That I do hate thee@ and love Helena. Her.@O me! you juggler! you canker@blossom! You thief of love! what, have you co@me by night@ And stolen my love's heart from him@ Hel.@Fine, i'faith! @@Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulne@s@s What, will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongu@e Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet, you! Her.Puppet@ why so@ ay, that way goes the game. Now I perceive that she hath made compare Between our statures@ she hath urg@ed her height And with her personage, her tall personage, Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him. And are you grown so high in his esteem@ Because I am so dwarfish@ and so low@@ How low am I, thou painted Maypole@ speak How low am@@ I I am not yet so low@ But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes. Hel.I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, Let her not hurt me I was never curst I have no gift at all in shrewishness I am a right maid for my cowardice Let her not strike me. You@ perhaps@ may think, Because she is something lower than myself, That I can match her. Her.@Lower! hark, again. Hel.Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me. I evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you Save that, in love unto Demetrius, I told him of your stealth unto this wood. He follow'd you for love@ I follow'd him@ But he hath chid me hence and threaten'd me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too And now, so you will let me quiet go, To Athens will I bear my folly back@ And follow you no further let me go You see how simple and how fond I am. Her.@Why, get you gone who is't that hinders you Hel.A foolish heart, that I leave here behind. Her.@What, with Lysander@ Hel.@With Demetrius. Lys.Be not afraid she shall not harm thee, Helena. Dem.No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part. @Hel.O, when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd! She was a vixen@ when she went to school And@ though she be but little, she is fierce. Her.'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little'! Why will you suffer her to flout me thus@ Let me come to her. Lys.@Get you gone, you dwarf You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made You bead, you acorn. Dem.@You are too officious@ In her behalf that scorns your services. Let her alone speak not of Helena Take not her part for, if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it. Lys.@Now she holds me not Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right, Of thine or mine, is most in Helena. Dem.@Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole. Exeunt Lysander  mistress, all this coil is 'long of you Nay, go not back. Hel.I will not trust you, I, Nor longer stay in your curst company. Your hands@ than mine@ are quicker for a fray, My legs are longer though, to run away. Exit. Her.@I am amazed, and know not what to @This is thy negligence still thou mistakest, Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully. @Puck.@Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook. Did not you tell me@ I should know the man By the Athenian garment@ he had on@ And so far blameless proves my enterprise, That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes And so far am I glad it so did sort@ As this their jangling I esteem a sport. Obe.@Thou see'st@ these lovers seek a place to fight Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog@ as black as Acheron, And lead these testy rivals so astray@ As one come not within another's way. Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue, Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong And sometime rail thou like Demetrius And from each other look thou lead them thus, @Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep. Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye Whose liquor hath this virtuous property, To take from thence all error@ with his might, And make his eye@balls roll with wonted sight. When they next wake, all this derision Shall seem a dream@ and fruitless vision, And back to Athens shall the lovers wend, With league@ whose date till death shall never end. Whiles I in this affair do thee employ, I'll to my queen@ and beg her Indian boy And then I will her charmed eye release From monster's view, and all things shall be peace. Puck.My fairy lord, this must be done with haste, For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast, And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there, Troop home to church@yards damned spirits all, That in cross@ways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone For fear lest day should look their shames upon, They wilfully themselves exile from light@ And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night. Obe.@But we are spirits of another sort I with the morning's love have oft made sport, And, like a forester, the groves may tread, Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams. But, notwithstanding, haste make no delay We may effect this business yet ere  and down, up and down, I will lead them up and down I am fear'd in field and town Goblin, lead them up and down. Here co@mes one.  Lys.@Where art thou, proud Demetrius@ speak thou now. Puck.Here, villain drawn and ready. Where art thou@ Lys.@I will be with thee straight. Puck.Follow me, then, To plainer ground. Exit Lysander, voice.  speak again@ Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled@ Speak! In some bush@@ Where dost thou hide thy head @Puck.@Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars, Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, And wilt not co@me@ Co@me, recreant co@me, thou child I'll whip thee with a rod he is defiled@ That draws a sword on thee. Dem.@Yea, art thou there Puck.Follow my voice we'll try no @manhood here. Exeunt. Re-enter LYSANDER. Lys.@He goes before m@e and still dares me on When I co@me where he calls, then he is gone. The villain is much lighter-heel'@d than I I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly That fallen am I in dark uneven way, And here will rest  Come, thou gentle day!@@@@@@@@ For if but once thou show me thy grey light, I'll find Demetrius@ and revenge this spite. Sleeps. Re-enter @PUCK  ho, ho! Coward, why comest thou not@ Dem.Abide me, if thou darest for well I wot@ Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place, And darest not stand, nor look me in the face. Where art thou  hither I am here. Dem.@Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear, If ever I thy face by day@light see Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me To measure out my length on this cold bed. By day's approach look to be visited. Lies down and sleeps.  Hel.@O weary night, O long and tedious night, Abate thy hours! Shine@ comforts@ from the east, That I may back to Athens@ by day@light, From these that my poor company detest And@ sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye, Steal me a@while from mine own .Yet but three@@ Co@me one more Two of both kinds makes up four. Here she comes, curst@ and sad @Cupid is a knavish lad, Thus to make poor females mad.  Her.@Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew@ and torn with briers, I can no further crawl, no further go My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will I rest me@ till the break of day. Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray! Lies @On the ground  thy former lady's eye And the country proverb known, That every man should take his own, In your waking shall be shown @@@Jack shall have  the juice  When thou wakest, Thou takest True delight In the sight  sit thee down upon this flowery bed, While I thy amiable cheeks do coy, And stick musk-roses in thy sleek, smooth head, And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy. Bot.@Where's Peaseblossom@ Peas.@Ready. Bot.@Scratch my head, Peaseblossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb @@Cob.@Ready. Bot.@Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get you your wea@pons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle and, good mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret yourself too much in the action, mounsieur and, good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not I would be loath to have you over@flown with a honey~bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustard@seed@ Mus@.@Ready. Bot.@Give me your neaf, Mounsieur Mus~tard@seed. Pray you, leave your courtesy, good mounsieur. Mus@.@What's your will@ Bot.@Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cob@web to scratch. I must to the barber's, monsieur for@ methinks@ I am mar~vellous hairy about the face and I am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, I must scratch. Tita.What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love@ Bot.@I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let@'s have the tongs and the bones. Tita.Or@ say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat. Bot.@Truly, a peck of provender I could munch your good dry oats. Methinks@ I have a great desire to a bottle of hay good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow. @Tita.@I have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts. @Bot.@I had rather have a handfu@l or two@ of dried peas. But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me I have an exposition of sleep come upon me. Tita.Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms. Fairies, be gone, and be all ways  doth the woodbine@ the sweet honeysuckle@ Gentle entwist@ the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm. O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee. They  good Robin. See'st thou this sweet sight@ Her dotage now I do begin to pity@ For, meeting her of late@ behind the wood, Seeking sweet favo@rs from this hateful fool, I did upbraid her@ and fall out with her For she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell@ like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes@ Like tears@ that did their own disgrace bewail. When I had@ at my pleasure@ taunted her@ And she@ in mild terms@ begg'd my patience, I then did ask of her her changeling child Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in fairy land. And now I have the boy, I will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes@ And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain That, he awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair And think no more of this night's accidents@ But as the fierce vexation of a dream. But first I will release the fairy queen. Be@ as thou wast wont to  as thou wast wont to see Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power. Now, my Titania wake you, my sweet queen. Tita.My Oberon! what visions have I seen! Methought@ I was enamour'd of an ass. Obe.@There lies your love. @Tita.@How came these things to pa@ss O, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now! Obe.@Silence@ a@while. Robin, take off this I head. Titania, music call and strike more dead Than common sleep@ of all these five the sense. Tita.Music, ho! music, such as charmeth @Now, when thou wakest, with thine own fool's eyes peep. Obe.@ Come, my queen, take hands with me, And rock th@e ground whereon these sleepers be. Now thou and I are new in amity, And will@ to-morrow midnight@ solemnly@ Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly And bless it to all fair prosperity There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity. Puck.Fairy king, attend, and mark I do hear the morning lark. Obe.@Then, my queen, in silence sad, Trip we after@@@@ night's shade We the globe can compass soon, Swifter than the wandering moon. Tita.Co@me, my lord, and in our flight@ Tell me how it came this night@ That I sleeping here was found@ With these mortals@ on the ground.  and train. The.Go, one of you, find out the forester For now our observation is perform'd And since we have the vaward of the day, My love shall hear the music of my hounds. Uncouple in the western valley go @Dispatch, I say, and find the  will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top, And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction. Hip.I was with Hercules@ and Cadmus@ once, When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear With hounds of Sparta never did I hear Such gallant chiding for, besides the groves, The skies, the fountains, every region near Seem'd all one mutual cry I never heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder. The.My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind, So flew'd, so sanded, and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells, Each under each. A cry more tuneable Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn, In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly Judge when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these@ Ege.@My lord, this is my daughter here asleep And this@ Lysander this Demetrius is This Helena, old Nedar's Helena I wonder of their being here together. The.@No doubt@ they rose up early@ to observe The rite of May, and, hearing our intent, Came here in grace of our solemnity. But@ speak, Egeus is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice @Ege@.@It is, my lord. The.Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns. Horns@ and shouts  wake and start up. @@@Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past Begin these wood-birds but to couple now@ Lys.Pardon, my lord.@ you all, stand up. I know@ you two are rival enemies How co@mes this gentle concord in the world, That hatred is so far from jealousy, To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity@ Lys.My lord, I shall reply amazedly, Half @sleep, half waking but as yet, I swear, I cannot truly say how I came here But, as I think,--for truly would I speak, And now I do bethink me, so it is,-~I came with Hermia hither our intent Was@ to be gone from Athens, where we might@@, Without the peril of the Athenian law. Ege.Enough, enough, my lord you have enough I beg the law, the law, upon his head. They would have stolen away@ they would, Demetrius, Thereby to have defeated you and me, You@ of your wife and me@ of my consent, Of my consent that she should be your wife. Dem.My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth, Of this their purpose hither@ to this wood And I in fury hither follow'd them, Fair Helena in fancy following me. But, my good lord, I wot not by what power,-~But by some power it is,--my love to Hermia, Melted as @@th@@@e snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud@ Which in my childhood I did dote upon And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object@ and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena. To her, my lord, Was I betroth'd ere I saw Hermia But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food But, as in health, co@me to my natural taste, Now I do wish it, love it, long for it, And will for evermore be true to it. The.Fair lovers, you are fortunately met Of this discourse we more will hear anon. Egeus, I will overbear your will For in the temple, by and by, with us@ These couples shall eternally be knit@ And, for the morning now is something worn, Our purposed hunting shall be set aside. Away@ with us@ to Athens three and three, We'll hold a feast in great solemnity. Co@me, Hippolyta.  and train. Dem.@These things seem small@ and undistinguishable, Like far-off mountains turned into clouds. Her.@Methinks@ I see these things with parted eye, When every thing seems double. Hel.So methinks And I have found Demetrius like a jewel, Mine own, and not mine own.  That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think@ The duke was here, and bid us follow him@ Her.@Yea and my father. Hel.@And Hippolyta. Lys.And he did bid us follow to the temple. Dem.@Why, then, we are awake let's follow him And@ by the way@ let us recount our dreams.  my cue comes, call me, and I will answer @my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho! Peter Quince! Flute, the bellows-mender! Snout, the tinker! Star~veling! God's my life, stolen hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare vision. I have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was man is but an ass, if he go about to expound this dream. Methought I was--there is no man can tell what. Me~thought I was,--and methought I had,--but man is but a patched fool, if he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream it shall be call@ed Bottom's Dream, because it hath no bottom and I will sing it in the latter end of a play, be~fore the duke per@adventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall sing it at her death. Exit.   house. @Have you sent to Bottom's house@ is he come home yet@@ Star.@He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt@ he is transported. Flu.@If he come not, then the play is marred it goes not forward, doth it Quin.It is not possible you have not a man in all Athen@s able to discharge Pyramus@ but he. Flu.No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft man in Athens. Quin.Yea, and the best person too and he is a very paramour@ for a sweet voice. @Flu.@You must say 'paragon a paramour is, God bless us, a thing of naught. Enter SNUG. Snug.@Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men. Flu.@O sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost six@pence a day during his life he could not have 'scaped six@pence a day an the duke had not given him six@pence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged he would have deserved it six@pence a day@ in Pyramus, or nothing. Enter BOTTOM. Bot.@Where are these lads@@ where are these hearts@@  O most courageous day! O most happy hour! Bot.@Masters, I am to discourse wonders but ask me not what for@ if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I will tell you every thing, right as it fell out. Quin.Let us hear, sweet Bottom. Bot.@Not a word of me. A@l@@@@l I will tell you@ is, that the duke hath dined. Get your apparel together, good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps meet presently at the palace every man look o'er his part fo@r the short and the long is, our play is pre~ferred. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen and let not him@ that plays the lion@ pair his nails, for they shall hang out for the lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions@ nor garlic@, for we are to utter sweet breath and I do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet co@medy. No more words away! go,  THESEUS. Enter  and Attendants. @Hip.'Tis strange, my Theseus, that these lovers speak of. The.More strange than true@ I never may believe These antique fables, nor these fairy toys. Lovers@ and madmen@ have such seething brains, Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend More than cool reason ever comprehends. The lunatic@, the lover@ and the poet@ Are of imagination all compact One sees more devils than vast hell can hold, That is, the madman the lover, all as frantic@, See@s Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven And@ as imagination bodies forth The fo@rms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shape@s and gives to airy nothing A local habitation@ and a name. Such tricks hath strong imagination, That, if it would but apprehend some joy, It comprehends some bringer of that joy @@Or@ in the night, imagining some fear, How easy is a bush supposed a bear! Hip.But all the story of the night told over, And all their minds transfigured so together, More witnesseth than fancy's images@ And grows to something of great constancy But, howsoever, strange@ and admirable.  Accompany your hearts! Lys.@More than to us Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed! The.Co@me now what masques, what dances shall we have, To wear away this long age of three hours@ Between our after-supper@ and bed-time@ Where is our usual manager of mirth @@What revels are in hand@@ Is there no play, To ease the anguish of a torturing hour @@Call Philostrate. Phil@@@.@Here, mighty Theseus. The.@Say, what abridgement have you for this evening@ What masque what music @@How shall we beguile The lazy time, if not with some delight@ Phil@@@.@There is a brief@ how many sports are ripe Make choice of which your highness will see first.  eunuch to the harp.' We'll none of that that have I told my love, In glory of my kinsman Hercules.   singer in their rage.' That is an old device and it was play'd When I from Thebes came last a  three Muses for  deceased in beggary.' That is some satire, keen@ and critical, Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.  scene of young Pyramus And hisbe very tragical @mirth.' Merry and tragical! tedious and brief! That is, hot ice@ and wond@rous strange snow. How shall we find the concord of this discord@ P@hil@@@.@A play there is, my lord, some ten words long, Which is as brief as I have known a play But by ten words, my lord, it is too long, Which makes it tedious for in all the play There is not one word apt, one player fitted@ And tragical, my noble lord, it is For Pyramus therein doth kill himself. Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess, Made mine eyes water but more merry tears The passion of loud laughter never shed. The.What are they@ that do play it@ Phil@@@.@Hard-handed men@ that work in Athens here, Which never labo@r'd in their minds till now, And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories With this same play, against your nuptial. The.And we will hear it. Phil@@@.@No, my noble lord@ It is not for you I have heard it over, And it is nothing, nothing in the world Unless you can find sport in their intents, Extremely stretch'd@ and conn'd with cruel pain, To do you service. The.I will hear that play For never any@thing can be amiss, When simpleness and duty tender it. Go, bring them in @and take your places, ladies. Exit Philostrate. Hip.I love not to see wretchedness o'ercharged@ And duty in his service perishing. The.Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing. Hip.He says@ they can do nothing in this kind. The.The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing. Our sport shall be@ to take what they mistake And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect Takes it in might, not merit. Where I have co@me, great clerks have purposed To greet me with premeditated welcomes Where I have seen them shiver@ and look pale, Make periods in the midst of sentences, Throttle their practised accent in their fears@ And@ in conclusion@ dumbly have broke off, Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet, Out of this silence@ yet@ I pick'd a welcome And in the modesty of fearful duty I read as much@@@@ from the rattling tongue Of saucy and audacious eloquence. Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity@ @In least@ speak most, to my capacity. @So please your grace, the Prologue is address'd. The. Let him approach.  fellow doth not stand upon points. Lys.He hath rid his prologue@ like a rough colt he knows not the stop. A good moral, my lord it is not enough to speak, but to speak true. Hip.Indeed he hath played on @his prologue@ like a child on a recorder a sound, but not in government. The.His speech was like a tangled chain@ nothing impaired, but all disordered. Who is next@ Enter @Gentles, perchance@ you wonder at this show But wonder on, till truth make all things plain. This man is Pyramus, if you would know This beauteous lady Thisby is@ certain. This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content To whisper. At the which let no man wonder. This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn, Presenteth @Moon@shine for, if you will know, By moon@shine did these lovers think no scorn To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo. This grisly beast,  trusty Thisby, coming first by night, Did scare away, or rather did affright And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall, Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain. Anon co@mes Pyramus, sweet youth@ and tall, And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade, He bravely broach'd his boiling bloody breast And@ Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade, His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest, Let Lion, Moon@shine, Wall, and lovers twain@ At large discourse, while here they do remain, Exeunt @and Moonshine. The.@I wonder@ if the lion be to speak. Dem.@No wonder, my lord one lion may, when many asses do. Wall.In this same interlude@ it doth befall@ That I, one Snout by name, present a wall And such a wall, as I would have you think, That had in it a crannied hole@ or chink, Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby, Did whisper often very secretly. This loam, this rough-cast@ and this stone@ doth show That I am that same wall the truth is so And this the cranny is, right and sinister, Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper. The.Would you desire lime and hair to speak better@ Dem.@It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard dis@course, my  draws near the wall @O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black! O night, which ever ar@t when day is not! O @night, O night! alack, alack, alack, I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot! And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall, That stand'st between her father's ground and mine! Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall, Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne! Wall  courteous wall Jove shield thee well for this! But what see I@ No Thisby do I see. O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss! Curst be thy stones for thus deceiving me! The.The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again. Pyr.@No. in truth, sir, he should not. 'De~ceiving me' is Thisby's cue she is to enter now, and I am to spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will fall pat as I told you. Yonder she co@mes. Enter  wall, full often hast thou heard my @moans, For parting my fair Pyramus and me! My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones, Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee. Pyr.@I see a voice now will I to the chink, To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face.e. Thisby! This.My love@ thou art, my love@ I think. Pyr.@Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace And, like Limander, am I trusty still. This.And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill. Pyr.@Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true. This.As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you. Pyr.O, kiss me through the hole of this vile wall! This.I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all. Pyr.@@Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway@ This.'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay.  have I, Wall, my part discharged so And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.  is the mural down between the two neigh@bours. Dem.@No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear without warning. Hip.This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard. The.@The best in this kind are but shadows and the worst are no worse, if imagination amend them. Hip.It must be your imagination then, and not theirs. The.If we imagine no worse of them@ than they of them@selves, they may pass for excel~lent men. Here come two noble beasts in, a m@an@ and a @You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor, May now@ perchance@ both quake and tremble here, When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar. Then know@ that I, one Snug the joiner, am A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam For, if I should as lion come in strife Into this place, 'twere pity on my life. The.A very gentle beast, and of a good conscience. Dem.@The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw. Lys.This lion is a very fox for his valo@r. The.True and a goose for his discretion. Dem.@Not so, my lord for his valo@r can~not carry his discretion and the fox carries the goose. The.@His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valo@r for the goose carries not the fox. It is well leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon. Moon.This lanthorn doth the horned moon present -~ Dem.@He should have worn the horns on his head. The.He is no crescent, and his horns are invisible within the circumference. Moon.This lanthorn doth the horned moon present Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be. The.This is the greatest error of all the rest the man should be put into the lanthorn. How is it else the man i' the moon@ Dem.@He dares not co@me there for t@he candle for, you see, it is already in snuff. Hip.I am aweary of this moon would@ he would change! The.@It appears, by his small light of dis~cretion, that he is in the wane but yet, in courtesy, in all reason, we must stay the time. Lys.@Proceed, Moon. Moon.@All that I have to say, is, to tell you@ that the lanthorn is the moon I, the man in the moon this thorn-bush, my thorn-bush and this dog, my dog. Dem.@Why, all these should be in the lan~thorn for these are in the moon. But, silence! here @This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love @Well roared, Lion. The.Well run, Thisbe. Hip.Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a good grace.  thee for thy sunny beams I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering @gleams, I trust to ta@ke of true@@ Thisby@@ sight. But stay, O spite! But mark, poor knight, What dreadful dole is here! Eyes, do you see@ How can it be @@O dainty duck! O dear@! Thy mantle good, What, stain'd with blood! Approach, ye Furies  come, come, Cut thread and thrum Quail, crush, conclude, and quell! The.This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go near to make a man look sad. Hip.Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man. Pyr.@@O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame@ Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear Which is-no, no--which was the fairest dame@ That lived, that loved, that liked, that look'd@ with cheer. Co@me, tears, confound Out, sword, and wound The pap of Pyramus Ay, that left pap, Where heart doth  die I, thus, thus, thus. Now am I dead, Now am I fled My soul is in the sky Tongue, lose thy light@ Moon, take thy  die, die, die, die, die.  die, but an ace, for him for he is but one. Lys.@Less than an ace, man for he is dead he is no@thing. The.With the help of a surgeon@ he might yet recover, and prove an ass. Hip.How chance Moonshine is gone@ be~fore Thisbe co@mes back and finds her lover@ The.She will find him by star@light. Here she comes and her passion ends the  she should not use a long one@ for such a Pyra@mus I hope@ she will be brief. Dem.A mot@e will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which Thisbe, is the better@  thus she .Asleep, my love@ What, dead, my dove@ O Pyramus, arise! Speak, speak. Quite dumb@ Dead, dead@ A tomb Must cover thy sweet eyes. These lily @lips, This cherry nose, These yellow cowslip cheeks, Are gone, are gone Lovers, make moan His eyes were green as leeks. O Sisters Three, Co@me, come@ to me, With hands as pale as milk Lay them in gore, Since you have shore With shears his thread of silk.@ not a word @Come, trusty sword Come, blade, my breast imbrue And, farewell, friends @Thus Thisby ends Adieu, adieu, adieu.  and Lion are left to bury the dead. Dem.@Ay, and Wall too.  I assure you the wall is down that parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance@ between two of our company@ The.No epilogue, I pray you for your play needs no excuse. Never excuse for when the players are all dead, there need none to be blamed. Marry, if he that writ it@ had played Pyramus@ and hanged himself in Thisbe's gar@ter, it would have been a fine tragedy and so it is, truly and very notably discharged. But, come, your Bergomask let your epilogue alone.one.  iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve Lovers, to bed 'tis almost fairy time. I fear@ we shall out-sleep the coming morn@ As much as we this night have overwatch'd. This palpable-gross play hath well beguiled The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed. A fortnight hold we this solemnity, In nightly revels@ and new  Puck.Now the hungry lion roars@ And the wolf behowls the moon Whilst the heavy ploughman snores, All with weary task fordone. Now the wasted brands do glow, Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud, Puts the wretch@ that lies in woe@ In remembrance of a shroud. Now it is the time of night@ That the graves@ all gaping wide, Every one lets forth his sprite, In the church-way paths to glide And we fairies, that do run By the triple Hecate's team, From the presence of the su@n, Following darkness like a dream, Now are frolic@ not a mouse Shall disturb this hallow'd house I am sent@ with broom@ before, To sweep the dust behind the door. Enter  train. Obe.Through th@e house give glimmering light, By the dead and drowsy fire Every elf@ and fairy sprite@ Hop as light as bird from brier And this ditty, after me, Sing, and dance it trippingly. Tita.First, rehearse your song by rote, To each word a warbling note@ Hand in hand, with fairy grace, Will we sing, and bless this place. @Now, until the break of day, Through this house each fairy stray. To the best bride-bed will we, Which by us shall blessed be And the issue@ there create@ Ever shall be fortunate. So shall all the couples three Ever true in loving be And the blots of Nature's hand Shall not in their issue stand Never mole, hare lip, nor scar, Nor mark prodigious, such as are Despised in nativity, Shall upon their children be. With this field-dew consecrate, Every fairy take his gait And each several chamber bless, Through this palace, with sweet peace  safety  Meet me all by break 
 FROM ADONAIS AN ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF JOHN KEATS. @1. I WEEP for Adonais@-@he is dead ! Oh ! weep for Adonais, though our tears Thaw not the frost which binds so dear a head ! And thou, sad Hour selected from all years To mourn our loss, rouse thy obscure compeers, And teach them thine own sorrow ! Say ' With me Died Adonais ! Till the future dares Forget the past, his fate and fame shall be An echo and a light unto eternity.' 2. Where wert thou, mighty Mother, when he lay, When thy son lay, pierced by the shaft which flies In Darkness ? Where was lorn Urania When Adonais died ? With veiled eyes, 'Mid listening Echoes, in her paradise She sat, while one, with soft enamoured breath, Rekindled all the fading melodies With which, like flowers that mock the corse beneath, He had adorned and hid the coming bulk of Death. 49. Go thou to Rome,@-@at once the paradise, The grave, the city, and the wilderness And where its wrecks like shattered mountains rise, And flowering weeds and fragrant copses dress The bones of Desolation's nakedness, Pass till the spirit of the spot shall lead Thy footsteps to a slope of green acces
 clothing kept as it hath beene, In London neuer shall be seene For Weauers then the most shall win, That worke for clothing next the skin. Till pride the Common-wealth doth peele, And causeth huswiues leaue their wheele, Then ponerty vpon each side, Vnto those workemen shall betide. At that time, from Eagles nest, That proudly builded in the West, A sorte shall come with cunning hand, To bring strange weauing in this Land, And by their games that great will fall, They shall maintaine the Weauers Hall But long the@y shall not flourish so, But folly will them ouerthrow. And men shall count it mickle shame, To beare that kind of Weauers name, And this as sure shall come to passe, As here is Ale within this glasse. When the silly soules that sate about him heard him speake in this sort, they admired, and honoured Crabbe for the same. Why my masters, said Weasell, doe you wonder at these words ? he will tell you twenty of these tales, for which cause we call him our canuas Prophet his attire fits his title, said they, and we neuer heard the like in our liues and if this should be true, it would be strange. Doubt not but it will be true, qd. Weasell OF 
 Grostete, commonly called Robert of Lincoln, is coupled with our hero by Butler, who speaks of Old Hodge Bacon and Bob Grostead, and is re-ported by Gower to have constructed a brazen head which could speak@-For of the grete Clerk Grostest, I rede how busy that he was Upon the clergie, an head of bras To forge and make it for to telle Of suche thinges as befelle. And seven yeres besinesse He laid, but for the lachesse Of half a minute of an houre Fro firste he began laboure He loste all that he hadde do. And other while it fareth so In loves cause, who is slowe That he without under the wowe By night stant full oft a eolde, Which mighte, if that he had wolde His time kept, hare be withinne. Confessio Amantis, Liber Quartus. William of Malmsbury mentions a similar one con-structed by Pope Sylvester the Second. I have in-serted this narrative of the Aquitanian, says Malmesbury in Dr. Giles translation,† to the  2. p. 9. of New Edition of Gower, edited by Dr. Pauli. † Bohn's Antiq. Lib. p. 18
 thousand ghosts beside him, And in groans did Vernon hail -' Heed, oh heed our fatal story ! I am Hosier's injured ghost You, who now have purchased glory At this place where I was lost Though in Portobello's ruin You now triumph free from fears, When you think on my undoing, You will mix your joys with tears. See these mournful spectres weeping Ghastly o'er this hated wave, Whose wan cheeks are stained with weeping These were English captains brave. Mark those numbers, pale and horrid, Who were once my sailors bold Lo ! each hangs his drooping forehead, While his dismal tale is told. ' I, by twenty sail attended, Did this Spanish town affright Nothing then its wealth defended, But my orders@-@not to fight ! Oh ! that in this rolling ocean I had cast them with disdain, And obeyed my heart's warm motion, To have quelled the pride of Spain ! ' For resistance I could fear none But with twenty ships had done What thou, brave and happy Vernon, Hast achieved with six alone. Then the Bastimentos never Had our foul dishonour se
 Weavers, wherein was found some such like foolish and disorderly matter. Deloney did not, however, confine himself to the issuing of single ballads. We have no less than two collections of which he is the author and, thanks to the Percy Society, these once rare volumes are now accessible to all lovers of old Poetry. The first is Strange Histories, or Songes and Sonets of Kings, Princes, Dukes, Lords, Ladyes, Knights and Gentle-men, being pleasant either to be read or songe and a most excellent @warning for all estates, printed in 1607. The second is, The Garland of Goodwill. Divided into Three Parts, containing many pleasant Songs and Pretty Poems to sundry New Notes, which Mr. Dixon, who edited the Percy Society's Reprint, supposes to have been printed as early as 1586. Deloney's prose Histories, are Thomas of Reading, Jack of Newbery, and The Gentle Craft. Thomas of Reading, which is here reprinted, must have been published before 1600, in which year Kemp alluded to it in his Nine Daies Wonder, but the precise date of the first edition is not known and such appears to have been its popularity that a fourth edition appeared in 1612, and the sixth, which is the one here reprinted, in 1632. The Earl of Ellesmere possesses a copy in 4t
 broken by plough or harrow or cleared of stubble, and there is never a stone in a thousand acres to throw at a browsing cow, if one made so bold as to invade the patches of young and tender sugar-cane. The streets of the city are clean and tidy, and all the vicinage has a prosperous, well-to-do appearance. Most of the houses are built of wood painted white, with green blinds many of them stand de-tached in gardens enclosed by railings and picket-fences. George-town looks as a thrifty@, well-ordered New England town would look can anyone picture the transformation ? if shaded by palms instead of elms, with an endless variety of tropical trees, shrubs, ferns, flow-ers, vines, and fruits growing in profusion around the dwellings. The most interesting objects of curiosity in Georgetown are its inhabitants, especially the host of Hindu coolies, laboring people, all imported under government contract from Hindustan, bound as apprentices used to be, articled to work on the sugar-estates for a term of five years at least. At the end of five y@ears they are free to do as the@y please, but may bind themselves for a further like term, at the end of which, all who are disposed to return home are entitled to a free passage to their native land. If they do not wish to serve a second articled term, they may remain in British Guiana to work as other laborers work that is to say, whenever they may feel inclined to earn twelve or fifteen pence a day, as the negroes are free to work if they choose@-@as the Chinese do work, wherever they can get em-ployment. The total number of Asiatics in British Guiana is about sixty@-five thousand the Hindus outnumber the Chinese in the proportion often to one, but all, or nearly all, of both races not born in South America, owe their importation into this part of the world to the demand for cheaper labor that arose when the price of sugar was forced down by the competition of other cane-growing countries, and the abnormally stimulated cultivation of beetroot sugar in Europe. For a time the low cost of cooly labor enabled the Demerara planters to make a profit on their crops after a time the supply of sugar exceeded t
 renders the approach to the former both difficult and danger-ous, as witness the fact@-@a large bark, in trying to beat up the nar-row channel a few days before our arrival, had gone hard aground on the sand, where we saw her heeled over, the water rising to her hatch-combings, slowly breaking up, not worth the price of the nails in her timbers. On the south side of the entrance to the inner harbor the ruins of an old fort stand on an eminence commanding the fair-way opposite, on the north, St. James' Fort crowns the summit of a promontory connected with the mainland by a narrow causeway. We landed at a quay of well-joined masonry, in the presence of a crowd of blacks who evidently took stock of us, sizing us up, no doubt, with the de-sign of engaging us in pecuniary transactions more or less connected with fruit, then and there, or later in the da@y, as opportunity might offer. Everywhere were fruit-sellers, with shallow wooden trays bal-anced on their heads, venders of knick-knacks, cheap jewellery, and divers glittering gewgaws such as find favor in the sight of our colored sisters for the negresses of Antigua, after the manner of their kind in other lands, delight in the unlimited quantity rather than in the precious quality of their personal adornment. Doubtless these bejew-elled ladies of color would if they had ever heard of her honor the memory of Tarpeia, if, indeed, they did not positively envy her fate, esteeming her a favored person of quality who died, as all ladies mov-ing in the best circles of colored society in Antigua would be glad to die, crushed beneath the weight of an unlimited assortment of precious gifts. The city of St. John's is laid out four-square the houses are for the most part built of wood, the most serviceable and lasting ma-terial in this unstable place. Antigua is subject to frequent earth-quakes therefore the buildings are seldom constructed more than two stories in height. Those of the better class are commodious, are usually painted white, with jalousies or Venetian blinds, and have broad verandas on the lower stories above these are covered gallerie
 house should quite be consumed with fire, wherein Cole was murdered, and that no man should euer build vpon that cursed ground. Coles substance at his death was exceeding great, hee had daily in his house an hundred men seruants and xl. maides hee maintained beside aboue two or three hundred people, spinners and carders, and a great many other house-holders. His wife neuer after married, and at her death shee bestowed a mightie summe of money toward the maintaining of the new builded Monastery. Her daughter was most richly married to a Gentleman of great worship, by whom she had many children. And some say, that the riuer whereinto Cole was cast, did euer since carrie the name of Cole being called The riuer of Cole, and the Towne of Colebrooke. How diuers of the Clothiers wiues went to the Church-ing of Suttons wife of Salisbury, and of their merri-ment. Chap. 12. SVTTONS wife of Salisbury which had lately bin deliuered of a sonne, against her going to Church, prepared great cheare at what time Simons wife of Southampton came thither, and so did diuers others of the Clothiers wiues, onely to make merry at this Churching feast and whilest these Dames sate at the Table, Crab, Weasell, and Wren, waited on the boord, and as the old Prouerbe speaketh, Many women many words, so fell it out at that time for there was such prattling that it passed some talkt of their husbands frowardnes, some shew
 did he live they were his life. In such access of mind, in such high hour Of visitation from the living God, Thought was not in enjoyment it expired. No thanks he breathed, he proffered no request Rapt into still communion that transcends The imperfect offices of prayer and praise, His mind was a thanksgiving to the Power That made him it was blessedness and love ! -@Wordsworth's Excursion, bk. i. CCCXXIII. MUSINGS OF THE WANDERER. ' I SEE around me here Things which you cannot see we die, my Friend, Nor we alone, but that which each man loved And prized in his peculiar nook of earth Dies with him, or is changed and very soon Even of the good is no memorial left. -@The Poets, in their elegies and songs Lamenting the departed, call the groves, They call upon the hills and streams to mourn, And senseless rocks nor idly for they speak, In these their invocations, with a voice Obedient to the strong creative power Of human passion. Sympathies there are More tranquil, yet perhaps of kindred birth, That steal upon the meditative mind, And grow with thought. Beside yon spring I stood, And eyed its waters till we seemed to feel One sadness, they and I. For them a bond describing the wild joy of roaming through a mountain storm and the metaphor which compares the Mind's power of transfiguring the obstacles which beset her, with the glory into which the Moon incor-porates the umbrage that w ould intercept her beams.@'@-@F. W. H@. Myers. On the above lines see Coleridge's Biographia Litcraria, xx
 I have written that that God put into my mind but looke once againe my Oast, is it not written there, that Doue shall haue two hundred pounds, to be paid when he comes to demand it ? yes indeed said his Oaste. Well then, all is well, said Cole, and it shall goe as it is for me. I will not bestow the new writing thereof any more. Then folding it vp, he sealed it, desiring that his Oast would send it to Exeter he promised that he would, notwithstanding Cole was not satisfied but after some pause, he woulds needs hire one to carry it. And so sitting downe sadly in his chaire againe, vpon a sudden he burst forth a weeping they demanding the cause thereof, he spake as followeth No cause of these feares I know but it comes now into my minde said Cole when I set toward this my last iourney to London, how my daughter tooke on, what a coyle she kept to haue me stay, and I could not be rid of the little baggage a long time, she did so hang about me, when her mother by violence tooke her away, she cryed out most mainly, O my father, my father, I shall neuer see him againe. Alas, pretty soule, said his Oastesse, this was but meere kindnesse in the girle, and it seemeth she is very fond of you. But alas, why should you grieue at this ? you must consider that it was but childishnesse. I, it is indeed, said Cole, and with that he began to nod. Then they asked him if he would goe to bed. No, said he, although I am heauy, I haue no mind to goe to b
 faire Margaret made her estate and high birth knowne to her Master and Dame and for the intire loue she bore to Duke Robert, made a vow neuer to marry, but became a Nun in the Abbey at Glocester. Chap. 15. AFTER faire Margaret was come againe to Glocester neuer did she behold the clear@e day, but with a weeping eye and so great was the sorrow which she conceiued, for the losse of Duke Robert her faithfull Louer, that she vtterly despised all the pleasures of this life, and at last bewrayed her selfe in this sort vnto her Dame O my good Master and Dame, too long haue I dis-sembled my parentage from you, whom the froward destinies doe pursue to deserued punishment. The wofull daughter am I of the vnhappy Earle of Shrews-burie, who euer since his banishment, haue done nothing but drawne mischance after mee wherefore let me in-treat you dear Master and Dame to haue your good wills, to spend the remnant of my life in some blessed Monasterie. When Gray and his wife heard this, they wondred greatly, as well at her birth, as at her strange demaund. Whereupon her dame knew not how to call her, whe-ther Maiden or Madam, but said, O good Lord, are you a Ladie, and I know it not ? I am sorrie that I knew it not before. But when the folkes of the house heard that Margaret was a Lady, there was no small altera-tion and moreouer her Dame said, that she h
 as for the ordre of knyghthode I set nothynge thereby, for there is no degre shall cause me leve my condycyons nor chaunge my lyfe, for I am not in that mynde to do no better than I have done hetherto, nor to amende for no man lyuynge. It was the costome of that lande, that on Whitsonyght the chyrche shold be watched, and tended with moche people, and theder cam Robert like a madman, and overthrowynge al them that came in his waye ferynge nother God nor the Deuyll, and he was never styll of all the nyght, and in the mornynge whan it was day Robert was made knyght. Then this duke comaunded a tournament to be made in the which the said Robert wrought maystyes, and dyde meruaylous dedes of armes, in kyllynge and berynge downe hors and man, no man refusynge nor feryinge. Of some he brake armes and some legges, and bare them thorowe and kylled them out of hande from hym went none unmarked in whiche iustynge Robert kylled x horses the duke herynge how his sone myscheued and murdred all that came in his handes he went hymself into the tournament and comaunded upon a grete payne to sease and ren no more then Robert rored for anger as he had ben wode and wolde not obeye his faders comaundement but abode styl in the fylde smytynge some that he kylled of the moste valiauntes that thether were comen to tournaye, than euery man cryed upon Robert to sease, but it auayled not, for he wolde not cease for no man, nor was there no man so bolde to encountre hym, for bycause that 
BK. I. 38 AN ENGLISH  upriseth from her stately place The royall Dame, and for her coche doth call All hurtlen forth and she with princely pace, As faire Aurora in her purple pall Out of the East the dawning day doth call. So forth she comes her brightness brode doth blaze. The heapes of people, thronging in the hall, Doe ride each other upon her to gaze Her glorious glitter and light doth all men's eies amaze. So forth she comes, and to her coche does clyme, Adorned all with gold and girlonds gay, That seemed as fresh as Flora in her prime And strove to match, in roy@@all rich array, Great Juno's golden chayre the which, they say. The gods stand gazing on, when she does ride To Jove's high hous through heaven's brasspaved way Drawne of fayre Pecocks, that excell in pride, And full of Argus eyes their tayles dispredden wide. But this was drawne of six unequall beasts, On which her six sage counsellours did ryde, Taught to obay their bestiall beheasts, With like conditions to their kindes applyde, Of which the first, that all the rest did guyde, Was sluggish IDLENESSE, the nourse of sin Upon a slouthfull Asse he chose to ryde, Arrayd in habit blacke, and amis thin, Like to an holy Monck, the service to begin. The ' Royal Dame ' is Duessa, or Pride, and she and her six coun-sellors represent the seven deadly sin
 noon and night, by sun and shower, By dews that fall and winds that flee, On grove and field, on fold and flower Is shed the peace of Charitie. The violets light the lonely hill, The fruitful furrows load the lea Man's heart alone is sterile still, For lack of lowly Charitie. He walks a weary vale within, No lamp of love in heart hath he His steps are death, his thoughts are sin, For lack of gentle Charitie. Daughter of heaven ! we dare not lift The dimness of our eyes to thee Oh ! pure and God-descended gift, Oh ! spotless perfect Charitie. Yet forasmuch thy brow is crossed With blood-drops from the deathful tree, We take thee for our only trust, Oh ! dying Charitie. Ah Hope, Endurance, Faith, ye fail like death, But Love an everlasting crown receiveth, For she is Hope, and Fortitude, and Faith, Who all things hopeth, beareth, and believeth. -@Ruskin. CCCLXXXVI. A BLESSING FOR EVE. Adam. Raise the majesties Of thy disconsolate brows, O well belovèd, And front with level eyelids the To-come, And all the dark o' the world. . .
 which the windows of the second stories open. I speak of the very few houses of the very few well-to-do whites. The negro-quar-ters are miserable shanties, filthy, unwholesome, badly built@, ready to @fall to pieces or to be blown away by the first hurricane-@in fact, many of them, already collapsed, were little better than cow-sheds in appear-ance. Some of the better class of dwellings are surrounded by trees, shrubs, exquisite ferns, and wonderful treasures of flowers and grace-ful growing things. We saw several built like Swiss cottages, of stone to the top of the first story, and above that of wood they had their kitchens detached from the living-rooms@-@a very desirable arrangement in that hot climate, as it serves to keep the heat and smell of cooking out of the sleeping-apartments. After rambling for a time about the streets we climbed to the top of a hill, back of the town, to the old church of St. John's built in the year 1793 , which stands in the midst of a God's acre, a veritable Golgotha, crowded with the graves of generation after generation of Antigonians, many of the sepulchres marked with curious tombstones, inscribed with quaint and, in several instances, really laughable epi-taphs, all of which, had time served, I was minded to copy. From the church-yard we had a grand view of at least half of the island. Far to the east, over fertile plantation, and away toward the north, beyond rugged hills and moorland, we could see distant villages and hamlets. We could follow with the eye, broad, smooth roads, leading to the set-tlements, through valleys, over braes, across thousands of acres of cane-pieces. Everywhere sugar-cane ! Nothing but sugar-cane ! Why should anyone expect to see any other crop ? Why should the planters of Antigua, or, for that matter, any of the planters in the West Indies, waste labor and time in planting grain ? Why, indeed ? Has not the president of one of the greatest railroads in the Western part of the United States, who visited the Caribbees in the Barracouta @on@. the trip preceding mine, after carefully calculating the relative value of a crop of @corn and a crop of sugar, announced that an ac
 the eggs. Now the birds have deserted their breeding-ground, and save for the human-kind laboring upon it there are no other living things to be found upon the rock except black lizards a few inches in length. There is little sweet-water to be found upon the island, for only a scant supply collects in the hollows of the rock during infrequent rains. This light-station, at the grand gate to the Caribbean Sea, lies in the channel between Anegada, the northernmost of the Virgin Islands, and Anguilla, the northeasternmost of the Caribbees it is forty-seven miles distant from the former, and bears northwest twenty-five miles from the edge of the reefs surrounding the latter. Sombrero is a little less than one mile in length from N.N.E. to S.S.W., not more than a thousand feet wide at its broadest part the lighthouse upon the southeast side of it stands in latitude 13° 35′ 45″ N., longitude 63° 27′ 46″ W. It shows, from an altitude of one hundred and fifty feet above the sea, a white light, revolving once a minute, visible about twenty miles from all points of the compass. Both to the east and to the west of Sombrero the channels are well-defined, so that vessels, having made this landfall, may go in safety either in enter-ing or in leaving the Caribbean Sea. Before the establishment of the light-house many vessels, losing their bearings, were wrecked upon the reefs which surround and outlie the nearest of the Virgin and other islands. The Barracouta passed close by Sombrero on its leeward side, within a quarter of a mile of the landing-place although we saluted the little colony with a blast of steam-whistle and by dipping our ensign, we received no answer or recognition, notwithstanding we could see people walking about on the shore, looking, at the distance, like black and brown ants on a great lump of white sugar. Anguilla, twenty-five miles, and St. Martin, forty miles distant, re-spectively were in plain sight from Sombrero, and shortly after leav-ing it behind us Saba came distinctly into view sixty miles away to the east of south presently St. Eustatius uplifted its pyramid still more to the east, at a distance of seventy-five miles then, as we co
 LET me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove O, no@! it is an ever-fixed mark, That looks on tempests, and is never shaken It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved. -@S@hakspere, Sonnet 116. LIV. THE expense of spirit in a waste of shame Is lust in action and till action, lust Is perjured, murderous, bloody, full of blame, Savage, extreme, rude, cruel, not to trust, Enjoyed no sooner but despisèd straight, Past reason hunted, and no sooner had Past reason hated, as a swallowed bait On purpose laid to make the taker mad Mad in pursuit and in possession so Had, having, and in quest to have, extreme A bliss in proof,@-@and proved, a very woe Before, a joy proposed behind, a dream. All this the world well knows yet none knows well To shun the heaven that leads men to this hell. -@Ib. 129. ' Perhaps the two most completely powerful sonnets in our literature.'-@J. A. Symond
DOWN THE ISLANDS. INTRODUCTION. I SAT down to my breakfast on the morning of the second day of April, 188-, with no more notion that I should find myself at dinner-time that day at sea, bound on a voyage the story of which I now propose to write, than I have, seeing that I am come in safety home again, of setting out before to-morrow to seek my fortune in the uttermost part of the mysterious country known as the Back of Beyond. On the morning in question, having slept in, as my Scotch forebears would put it, I was not surprised, on entering the dining-room, to discover that the other members of my family had already gone their several ways into the work-a-day world all except my father, who was standing by the win-dow, whence, from time to time, he cast weather-wise glances aloft, blinking and frowning at as angry a sky as had ever scowled back at him on any morning all winter long between Thanksgiving and the dreary April day whereof I am writing. According to calendars and date-lines of daily newspapers the second month of spring was two days old the weather, to the con-trary, bore testimony of midwinter@-@midwinter at its worst@-@with never a suggestion of springtide nor prophecy of summer if summer there was ever again to be. The temperature was of January.
 THE NYMPH'S REPLY. IF all the world and love were young, And truth in every shepherd's tongue, These pretty pleasures might me move To live with t@hee, and be thy love. But time drives flocks from field to fold, When rivers rage and rocks grow cold And Philomel becometh dumb, The rest complain of cares to come. The flowers do fade, and wanton fields To wayward winter reckoning yields A honey tongue@-@a heart of gall, Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall. Thy gowns, thy shoes, thy beds of roses, Thy cap, thy kirtle, and thy posies, Soon break, soon wither, soon forgotten, In folly ripe, in reason rotten. Thy belt of straw and ivy-buds, Thy coral clasps and amber studs All these in me no means can move To come to thee, and be thy love. But could youth last, and love still breed, Had joys no date, nor age no need, Then these delights my mind might move To live with thee, and be thy love. -@Raleigh. away all care and sung like a nightingale. @Her voice was good and the ditty fitted for it it was that smooth song which was made by Kit Marlowe, now at least fifty years ago. And the milk-maid's mother sang an answer to it, which was made by Sir Walter Raleigh in his younger days.'@-@Walton's Complete Angler 1653 .
 stared sterne on all that him beheld As ashes pale of hue, and@ seeming ded, And on his dagger still his hand he held, Trembling through hasty rage when choler in him sweld. His ruffin raiment all was staind with blood Which he had spilt, and all to rags yrent, Through unadvized rashnes woxen wood For of his hands he had no governement, Ne cared for blood in his avengement But, when the furious fit was overpast, His cruel facts he often would repent Yet, wilfull man, he never would forecast How many mischieves should ensue his heedlesse hast. Full many mischiefes follow cruell Wrath ! Abhorred bloodshed, and tumultuous strife, Unmanly murder, and unthrifty scath, Bitter despight, with rancour's rusty knife, And fretting griefe, the enemy of life All these, and many evils moe haunt ire, The swelling Splene and Frenzy raging rife, The shaking Palsey, and Saint Fraunces fire. Such one was Wrath, the last of this ungodly tire. And, after all, upon the wagon beame, Rode SATHAN with a smarting whip in hand, With which he forward lasht the laesy teme, So oft as Slowth still in the mire did stand. Huge routs of people did about them band, Showting for joy and still before their way A foggy mist had covered all the land And, underneath their feet, all scattered lay Dead sculls and bones of men whose life had gone astray. -The Faery Queene, i. 
 eight hundred from Nevis and Barbados, eight hundred from Antigua, four hundred from Montserrat, and two hundred gentlemen volunteers. This large force of men, conveyed in eleven men-of-war, accompanied by five tenders, met with little or no resistance, and ex-perienced little difficulty in capturing the island, when about two thousand of its French inhabitants were banished to Martinique and San Domingo. The French made several attempts to re-establish themselves on the island, and in a measure succeeded in doing so, a remnant remain-ing at St. Christopher until in Queen Anne's day, when they were finally driven from the island by the English, who held it successfully against all comers until the end of the war, when, by the Peace of Utrecht, St. Kitt's was ceded to Great Britain, in whose possession it has remained until the present time. During the war for American independence it is said that the people of St. Kitt's sympathized with the rebellious colonies, but were prevented, by the presence of an Eng-lish fleet in their neighborhood, from actively participating in the war against the mother country. The Island of St. Christopher lies in latitude 17° 18′ N. in longi-tude 62° 48′ W. The main body of the island is an oval, nearly thir-teen miles long, little less than six miles in width at its broadest part, and contains an area of about sixty@-eight square miles, or nearly forty-four thousand acres, of which thirty thousand are under cultivation. Its entire surface, except toward the southeastern extremity, is very mountainous. The Conarrhee Hills uplift their heads around the lofty and precipitous crags of Mount Misery, which towers heaven-ward in the centre of the island to a height of four thousand three hundred and fourteen feet. From the southeastern shore a long neck of uncultivated land, a quarter of a mile in width makes out for three miles or more into the sea, increasing, fan-like, in extent. The surface of the land at first gradually rises toward the south, then abruptly mounts upward, form-ing a cluster of conical hills called St. Anthony's Peaks, all of th
 Hercules was more fearfull, and said, I cannot, nor I dare not for great Bacon stands, whose charms are farre more powerfull than thine, I must obey him Vandermast. Hereat Vandermast curst Hercules, and threatned him But Fryer Bacon laughed, and bid not to chafe himself ere that his journey was ended for seeing said he that Hercules will doe nothing at your command, I will have him doe you some service at mine with that he bid Hercules carry him home into Germany. The Devill obeyed him, and tooke Vander-mast on his backe, and went away with him in all their sights. Hold Fryer, cried the ambassadour, I will not loose Vander@mast for half my land. Content yourself my lord, answered Fryer Bacon, I have but sent him home to see his wife, and ere long he may returne. The king of England thanked Fryer Bacon, and forced some gifts on him for his service that he had done for him for Fryer Bacon did so little respect money, that he never would take any of the king. How Fryer Bacon through his wisdom saved the en-dangered lives of three Brethren. THE peace being concluded betweene the King of Eng-land and the King of France, the King of England came againe into his country of England, where he was received very ioyfully of all his subjects But in his ab-sence had happened a discord betweene three brethren, the like hath not beene often heard. This it was A rich gentleman of England dyed, and left behind h
 or, wreathing it about her neck, drew the ends around her waist at times she looped it in front or knotted it behind her, and all this she did so easily, without apparent effort, and withal so uncon-sciously, it seemed as if she had but to wish the drifting cloud to wrap about and infold her, float behind or around her, and it obeyed, being governed by a breath, a sigh. The veil is to a Hindu girl what a fan is to a señorita of Castile. Deprive a Spanish beauty of her fan, the coolie belle of her veil, and both are ill at ease. They seem not to know what to to do with their hands they forget their airs and graces and coquettish ways their toilet is incomplete and lacking in expression the maids themselves are like birds with clipped wings. I shall not attempt to describe how ethereal and sprite-like the coolie girl appeared to me I was bewildered and bewitched as she tangled, entwined, interwove, and untwisted, yard upon y@ard of deli-cate film, all floating around her like a cloud of spray. Her skirts were of India muslin, soft and clinging, unflounced, and quite the reverse of trailing. All round about her lower borders were decora-tions of bright colors, embroidered with flowery brede of silken needle-work, and from beneath these scant phylacteries her little Hindu toes, all covered with rings, crept in and out like wee black mice in coats of silver mail. So soft were all her blended colorings, veiled in misty flutterings of cotton and fine silk, she lives in my memory, growing in brightness, wearing her brilliant garment, the leader of the days, shining, gold-colored, lovely@ to behold@-@@Ushas, Goddess of the Dawn. I lost sight at last of this Oriental vision I do not choose to remember that she disappeared in mortal fashion, by prosaically turning a corner of the street@-@I prefer to indulge the fancy that she entered her private cloud, as Olympian goddesses of old were wont to do, and so was wafted away by the gentlest and floweriest of gales. Later in the day, after I had recovered from the ecstasy and fever of regret at losing sight of the Hindu beauty, I was driven three miles from town to one of the most extensive sugar-estates in Demerara
@I say Bill, Vell Vot rum coves them lords are, vy they actually call one another not gen-tlemen to their face with impunity. Here it says in the Advertiser that our Lord Brougham begins his speech by saying My lords ad gentlemn, @no@w if he don't consider lords to be gen@tlemen, which they are not he might think an@d say @nothing, cause vy vot a fool a prig would to peach against himself. Vy I say Bill Vy is our Premier called Sir Robert Peel ? In vain the queery thro' my brain ranges, Vy ? Cause vy On poor folks he can ring the changes, Good so help my tater, For a bob oft to Wauxhall I go, And flare up vith my voman there, Like ot@her Dons valks to and fro, And at the lamps with amazement stare, And vhen keen hunger I am fellng, To the svage shop I valks straightway, And for two vaers pays one shilling, But vhen you're out expect to pay. Spoken@-@I'm blowed Tom, arnt that a rum cove lit up with warygated lamps, with his hat in one hand stick in t'ot@her and ki@king his leg hack as if he w@s kicking a dog to the devil ? Vy cant you be respectable n@ow you're out bt blow me if I had him suck upon my tater can wouldn't he be a draw I beg your pardon sir, I do n@ot @wis@h to insult you, not by no mea@ns, but you have taken my young wo-man there. Oh my der sir I bg ten thousand par-dons but you see it was a Miss-ta@ke. O @my eyes, Sam, look how them oves are standig round te age @shop but don' like to pay vat tey v@an@ts. I I had my tater can here wouldn't I bawl out@-@Flare up, c.  can, With regular flare up lamps at top, The greatest swell of all I am, And the gals to buy of me all stop Vith my lilly tile and toggery gay, And silver ticker's all the rub,@ @@Vich I takes care to sport all day, Vhile cutting up the salted @Baked taters all hot, smoking hot, hot ! hot ! Here you are my rum s, none of the paxey vaxey sort, regular baker's heads rolle@d in flower, no going round oyster stalls begging the @candle scrapings for butter. No, no, I don't do it tha@t ere vay, I sport slap up fresh butter, pepper, salt a@nd all for a brown. Flare up my rum'uns buy my kids, Sport your ochre w@hile you can, Two a penny now who bds To the cove wot keeps a tater can. I leads a very steady life, And how I does it you shall hear, Vhen I've done with taters and k@ife, Play at knock em downs for pots of beer, But vhen my pleasure I'd be cha@ging, Calls on Poll who ne'er says nay, And vhen her dress she's done arranging, Ve have a tanner's vorth at the play. Spoken@-@Flare up Poll, Order there pitch him over Vill you pitch him over ? Let me catch you at my tater stand if I don't shove a second hand one down your throat wit@hout o butter, blow me order bravo Wale. I say my covey which actor would you like to be Wale ? I wouldn't like to be-wail any one. Good, so help my tater. Flare up, c. On Sunday I'm the werry don Of tater merchants you would say, Vith my slap up toggery on, I sports my carcase every where, At night to the gatter shop I valks, Just to pass the time away, And about the vorld ve alvays talks, Vile sporting our yards of clay.  lad was I, I knew 'twas hard to earn reward but thought at least I'd try, So I said I'll-not dispair@-@but I'll do my duty there@-Thot was the way with me my boys @when first I went to sea. When waves ran mountains high, I felt a little queer, But then I thought how Rodney fought and he became a Peer, So I said why shouldn't I be a Peer before I die, Thot was the way with me my boys when first I went to sea. When taking Captain's pay it seemed to me unfair, To tell the crew brave lads to do what I did not dare, So wherever danger lay I sought to lead the way, That was the way with me my boys when first I went to sea. It was oft my happy lot a drowning man to save, To fly to swim to rescue him when struggling with the wave, D@own whether drest or not I darted like a shot, Tha@t was the way with me my boys when first I went to sea. A rich reward to gain we landed at Algiers, We made the Dey for his crimes to pay with the house about his ears, W@e broke the captives' chains ne'er to be forged again, O what a glorious close my boys to a saior's life at sea. Jackson and Son, Printers, 69, Digbeth, Birmingham@@
BOOK IV. THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. SECTION I. 1798 -1824 . CCXXLIX. FROM LINES COMPOSED ABOVE TINTERN ABBEY. I HAVE learned To look on Nature, not as in the hour Of thoughtless youth, but hearing oftentimes The still sad music of humanity, Nor harsh nor grating, but of ample power To chasten and subdue. And I have felt A presence that disturbs me with the joy Of elevated thoughts a sense sublime Of something far more deeply interfused, Whose dwelling is the light of setting suns And the round ocean, and the living air, And the blue sky, and in the mind of man A motion and a spirit that impels All thinking things, all objects of all thought, And rolls through all things. Therefore am I still A lover of the meadows and the woods And mountains, and of all that we behold From this green earth of all the mighty world Of eye and ear, both what they half create And what perceive well pleased to recognise In nature, and the language of the sense, The anchor of my purest thoughts, the nurse, In 1798 appeared Lyrical Ballads by Wordsworth and Coleridge, the principal contribution of the latter being the Rime of the Ancient Mariner and by Wordsworth, Lines composed a few miles above Tintern, on revisiting the Banks of the Wye daring a tour, @July 13, 179
 poor imps ! enjoy your sportive trade, And chase gay flies, and cull the fairest flowers For, when my bones in grass-green sods are laid, Oh ! never may ye taste more careless hours In knightly castles or in ladies' bowers. O vain to seek delight in earthly thing ! But most in courts, where proud Ambition towers Deluded wight ! who weens fair peace can spring Beneath the pompous dome of kesar or of king. 1742. -@Shenstone. CCXXIX. SONNET ON THE DEATH OF RICHARD WEST. IN vain to me the smiling mornings shine, And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire The birds in vain their amorous descant join Or cheerful fields resume their green attire These ears, alas ! for other notes repine A different object do these eyes require My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine And in my breast the imperfect joys expire. Yet morning smiles the busy race to cheer, And new-born pleasure brings to happier men The fields to all their wonted tribute bear To warm their little loves the birds complain I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear, And weep the more, because I weep in vain. -@Gray. Written August, 1742, published in Mason's Memoirs and Writings of Gray, 1775. This sonnet possesses an additional interest from the use made of it by Wordsworth in the Preface to his Lyrical Ballads, and Coleridge' scomments on his criticism, Biog. Lit., xviii. 
 whiche he had many tymes bene about, he dyde grete dylygence, and caused to be sought and gotten a whyte horse and white harnays, and thryste a spere heed in his thyghe, wenynge therby to deceyue themperour, and to gete his doughter to wyfe and whan this was done he commaunded all his men to arme them, and ryde wyth hym to the emperour and he rode so sore tyll he came to Rome with great royalte and solace, and without ony taryenge he rode streyght to the emperour, saynge to hym in this wyse My lorde I am he that you so valyauntly receyued thre tymes I haue caused you to haue h@onoure and victorye ayenst the cursed Sarasyns. Themperour thynkynge upon no treason nor deceyte, sayd Te be a valyaunt and a wyse knyght but I had went the contrarye, for we haue taken you for a vylayne and a forsworne knyght. The senesshall was very angry and sore moued here withall, and answered the emperoure shortly and angerly My lorde emperour, meruayll you no-thynge here of, for I am not such a cowarde as ye wene that I be and thus saynge he toke out the spere-heed and shewed it the emperour, anduncouered the wounde the whiche he had made hymselfe in hys thyghe. The knyghte stode by whiche that hurt Robert before, and began to compasse in his mynde, for he se well that it was not the heed of the spere, but he durst saye no-thynge for fere, lest the senesshall wolde haue kylled hym. We wyll leue nowe of the senesshall, and speke of Robert, which is among dogges, sore wounded, as ye have herde befor
 it is mingled and set up, will be made known hereafter with particular care, all in its proper place in my narrative. After a siesta on board I returned to land, with a numerous addi-tion to the contingent I had left ashore lingering over their swizzles at the inn, and proceeded with them to the office of the consignee of the Barracouta, where we were put into carriages and driven to the house of the owner of one of the most extensive sugar-plantations on the island. The hospitable mansion stands on the mountain-side, overlook-ing the town, in the midst of pleasure-grounds laid out, generations ago, by t@he ancestors of the present possessor, in terraces, parterres, shrubberies, and beds of flowers and ferns. Nearly every plant or tree indigenous to the West Indies was here to be seen, rare exotics, rare to us children of the North tropical plants, all growing to per-fection in marvellous, not to say bewildering, luxuriance. In the open air, just think of it ! exclaimed one of the visitors who, like myself, failed to realize that in seven days from midwinter we had arrived in midsummer@-@that we, in reality and in very truth, lived and breathed in the tropics. I could hardly persuade myself of the fact that at no time of the year was it necessary to transplant the treasures and curiosities of this garden, by which we were surrounded, into pots and hot-house tubs, with the intent to store them away under glass until winter had come and gone. The garden, which was several acres in extent, contained a bewildering variety of trees, flowers, vines, exquisite ferns, orchids, and delicate plants. Such a horticultural dis-play, within ten miles of New York or Boston, would so greatly pro-mote local travel, attract crowds of sightseers, it would be well worth the trouble of even the least accommodating railroad company to run excursion trains to and from the exhibition half-hourly every pleasant day during the short season the show might flourish and retain its beauty in our northern climate, from the time--our spring gets everythin' in tune, An' gives one leap from April into Jun
 THE HAPPY WARRIOR. WHO is the happy Warrior ? Who is he That every man in arms should wish to be ? -@It is the generous Spirit, who when brought Among the tasks of real life, hath wrought Upon the plan that pleased his boyish thought Whose high endeavours are an inward light That makes the path before him always bright Who, with a natural instinct to discern What knowledge can perform, is diligent to learn Abides by this resolve, and stops not there, But makes his moral being his prime care Who, doomed to go in company with Pain, And Fear, and Bloodshed, miserable train ! Turns his necessity to glorious gain In face of these doth exercise a power Which is our human nature's highest dower Controls them and subdues, transmutes, bereaves Of their bad influence, and their good receives By objects, which might force the soul to abate Her feeling, rendered more compassionate Is placable@-@because occasions rise So often that demand such sacrifice More skilful in self-knowledge, even more pure, As tempted more more able to endure, As more exposed to suffering and distress Thence, also, more alive to tenderness. -@'Tis he whose law is reason who depends Upon that law as on the best of friends Wordsworth has taken most of the characteristics from Nelson, who may be said to be the hero of the piece he has also his brother John in view in some place
 to help them in their competition with all Europe@-@sugar-cane versus beetroot ! They appeal to Gladstone and Salisbury in turn but these gentlemen, immersed in a sea of affairs@-@Continental and international affairs, Indian and Irish questions, Eastern problems@-have no time to listen to the moans of the planters, echoing faintly from afar across the Atlantic. It is said the white people are gradually withdrawing from the island, and the statistics I have given lend color to this statement. It is true that some of the planters have already given up their estates, and returned to England to live upon whatever they may have laid up for a rainy day. Numbers of the younger men have emigrated to other countries, to try to make their way in the world some have come to the United States, and, my word for it, our country receives no braver, more resolute, or success-compelling recruits than these fair-spoken, quick-witted Bims. But enough of statistics ! I have done for the present with blue-books, government reports, and such dry-as-dust material I will get on with my description of Bridgetown, where, as I have said, I landed in the presence of a great cloud, a black crowd, of witnesses, an in-numerable company of Barbadians of African descent, w@ho volun-teered, en masse, to render any service under the sun that might be worth a tip I had only to name what I desired, and the whole popu-lace then in sight were ready to do my bidding. A dozen or more darkies offered to conduct me to different hotels, of which there are several in Bridgetown. A score of grinning blacks desired me to fol-low them to the station of the Barbados Bailway Company, for Bim-shire boasts the only railway in the Caribbee Islands@-@a railway im-ported from England. Not an American railroad, with locomotives, cars, baggage-cars, and conductors, but an English railway, mark you, with engines, carriages, luggage-vans, and guards. On this railway, goods-trains are shunted at the stations there are no freight-trains to switch at depots. Its engines squeal and screech, are painted green, are without bells or cow-catchers, and would look perfectly natur
 his brother Indian Warner lived. Great seeming joy was there at their meeting, but how far real the event showed, for the English Warner, providing plenty of liquor and inviting his half-brother to be merry with him, in the midst of his entertainment ordered his men, when a signal was given, to murder him and all his Indians, which was accordingly performed. Such perfidious doings as these, besides the baseness of them, are a great hinderance of our gaining interest among the Indians. Philip Warner was tried, it is true, for the murder of his half-brother, but, being triumphantly acquitted, had his lands restored to him, and was re-established in the honors of the governorship. In 1703 a monthly mail-service was started between Antigua, Bar-bados, St. Christopher, Nevis, Montserrat, Jamaica, and England. It is curious to note the charges that were made for the conveyance of letters in those days they@ were as follows For every letter not ex-ceeding one sheet of paper, 9d. for two sheets, 1s. 6d. for every packet weighing 1 oz. or under, 2s. 8d. In the year 1770, Antigua was visited by Captain Kidd, As he sailed, as he sailed. This gallant tar persuaded the governor to give him command of a small sloop of thirty guns, promising in turn to ex-terminate he, of all salt-water highwaymen the pirates that infested these seas in by-gone days. This he did, in his own way, and doubt-less to his own entire satisfaction. The people of Antigua, during his protectorate, had frequent cause to remember the fable of the Doves who invited the Kite to defend them from the Hawk, no doubt puz-zling themselves considerably how best to solve the problem, Quis cus-todiet custodem ? until Kidd saw fit to depart for the East Indies, as he did a year or two afterward, in the thirty-gun sloop, which he forgot to restore to the governor. In the time of Queen Anne that abominable and atrocious gov-ernor, Daniel Park, arrived to blast for a time with his unhallowed breath this beautiful island. This truly remarkable man was a Vir-ginian who had committed a murder at a gambling-table, deserted h
 I wyll neuer hurte Crysten creature. Than incontynent the pope toke Robert aparte, and herde his confessyon, to whome Robert shrowe him deuoutly, shewynge how his moder had gyuen hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon, wherof the pope was sore aferde. How the pope sente Robert thre myle without Rome to an holy heremyte. THE pope this herynge was gretly abasshed, and blessyd hym, and sayd to Robert My dere sone, ye muste goo thre myle without the towne, and there ye shall fynde an heremyte whiche is my goostly fader, and to hym ye shall confesse you, and saye that I sende you to hym, and he shall asoyle you. Robert answered the pope I wyll go with a good wyll and toke his leue of the pope saynge, God gyue me grace to do that may be to the helth of my soule. Soo that nyght Robert abode in Rome, for it was late, and in the mornynge erly Robert went out of Rome towarde the place where he sholde fynde the heremyte and so he wente so longe ouer hylles and dales with grete desyre to be shryuen of his synnes, and at last he came where the heremyte dwelled, whereof be was glad, and came to the heremyte and tolde hym how the pope had sent hym theder to be confessed of hym. Than the here-myte sayd he was hertly welcome and within a whyle Robert began to confesse and shewe his synne, and fyrst he shewed the heremyte how his moder had gyuen hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon and how he smo
 now thou frown'st, and now I die, My corpse by lovers followed Which straight shall by dead lovers lie That ground is only hallowed. If priests are grieved I have a grave, My death not well approving, The poets my estate shall have, To teach them th' Art of Loving. And now let lovers ring their bells For me, poor youth departed, Who kindly in his love excels, By dying broken-hearted. My grave with flowers let lovers strow, Which if thy tears fall near them, May so transcend in scent and show, As thou wilt shortly wear them. Such flowers how much will florists prize, On lover's grave that growing, Are watered by his mistress' eyes, With pity ever-flowing, A grave so deckt will, though thou art Yet fearful to come nigh me, Provoke thee straight to break thy heart, And lie down boldly by me. Then everywhere all bells shall ring, All light to darkness turning While every choir shall sadly sing, And Nature's self wear mourning. Yet, we hereafter may be found. By destiny's right placing, Making, like flowers, love underground, Whose roots are still embracing. -@Davena
 object of attack, her planters meanwhile profiting roundly by the misfortunes which overtook the Antiguans and Kittefonians, for the destruction of the estates of the latter greatly enhanced the value of the Barbadians' sugar. Barbados, moreover, suffered least from the effects of the emancipation of the negroes in 1834, and the conse-quent disturbance of the labor market. She soonest recovered from what little temporary disarrangement of her mode of carrying on her industries she may have experienced at the time, and, of all the West Indies, most readily conformed to the new régime, beginning at once to adjust herself to the changed social condition of her lately freed host of laborers. Until within the past few years this colony has flourished greatly her people have enjoyed the fullest measure of prosperity and worldly happiness. Now ? Now it is different. The price of sugar has fallen. To say that the sky has fallen, that the eternal bottom has dropped out, would convey but a slight idea of what the decline in the price of sugar signifies to the Barbadians. Tell a Newcastle man that his coal mines are exhausted, a Mississippi planter that cotton is no longer king, and one will get some notion of how a Bim receives the an-nouncement that henceforth beetroot is to sweeten the tea and coffee of grown folks, and ruin the teeth of the little ones, in all parts of the world. To a Barbadian, sugar is everything without it he is nothing, nobody. He knows not either to plant, cultivate, or harvest any other crop. Indigo ? Cotton ? He gave up bothering with both, gen-erations ago. Tobacco ? He long since weeded out the rank weed, so exhausting to the soil@-@even to the soil of his fertile island. Rice @? Maize ? Go to ! Your Barbadian is a planter, not a farmer he owns an estate, and does not work on a farm. Plant corn, forsooth ! As well plant beetroot, and be done with it. And yet, beetroot contains from two to four per cent. more saccharine matter than sugar-cane, and of late years its cultivation has been encouraged and stimulated in certain European countries Germany and France, in particular by the payment of government bounties to all farmers who may plant i
 the statements I heard reiterated again and again, to the effect that all this jewellery is of pure gold@-@that even the blackest ne-gresses scorn to wear Brummagem or plated imitations. If, however, these fairy tales be true, then can I boast that at Martinique I had my washing done up by the spouse of a bonanza king who unless he had paid his wife's jeweller could still afford to sit in his counting-house, counting out his money, while the queen herself was in the garden hanging up my clothes. Little girls, maidens, matrons, and ancient dames, all of them wear gorgeous bandanna handkerchiefs, built upon their heads with scrupu-lous care in intricate folds, and all these coifs, it is needless to say, are as gaudy, if not as tasteful and unutterably lovely, as Easter bonnets. Many of the quadroons are handsome, even beautiful in their youth, and all the women of pure black, as well as those of mixed blood, walk with a lightness of step and a graceful freedom of motion that are very noticeable and pleasant to see. I say all the women@-@but I must con-fine this description to those who go shoeless@-@for when a negress crams her feet into even the best-fitting pair of shoes her gait becomes as awkward as the waddle of an Indian squaw or of a black swan on dry land she minces and totters, in such danger of falling forward that one feels constrained to go to her and say Mam'selle Ébène or Noirette, do, I beseech you, put your shoes where you carry everything else, namely, on the top of your well-balanced head@-@do let me see you walk barefoot once again, for, I assure you, neither your Chinese cousins nor your European mistresses can ever hope to imitate your goddess-like gait until they practise the art of walking with their tiny high-heeled boots nicely balanced on their heads, as you so often are pleased to carry yours. The language of the people of Martinique of course is French. The negro creoles speak a jargon that baffled all our attempts at ex-tended conversation, although they understood those of our party to whom French of Paris was not unknown. The whites speak French with an accent that very closely resembles the speech of the creol
 in a state where men are tempted still To evil for a guard against worse ill, And what in quality or act is best Doth seldom on a right foundation rest, He fixes good on good alone, and owes To virtue every triumph that he knows -@Who, if he rise to station of command, Rises by open means and there will stand On honourable terms, or else retire, And in himself possess his own desire Who comprehends his trust, and to the same Keeps faithful with a singleness of aim And therefore does not stoop, nor lie in wait For wealth, or honours, or for worldly state Whom they must follow on whose head must fal@l Like showers of manna, if they come at all Whose powers shed round him in the common strife@ Or mild concerns of ordinary life, A constant influence, a peculiar grace But who, if he be called upon to face Some awful moment to which Heaven has joined Great issues, good or bad for human kind, Is happy as a Lover and attired With sudden brightness, like a Man inspired And, through the heat of conflict, keeps the law In calmness made, and sees what he foresaw Or if an unexpected call succeed, Come when it will, is equal to the need -@He who, though thus endued as with a sense And faculty for storm and turbulence, Is yet a Soul whose master-bias leans To homefelt pleasures and to gentle scenes Sweet images ! which, wheresoe'er he be, Are at his heart and such fidelit
 Idlesse fancied in her dreaming mood And up the hills, on either side, a wood Of blackening pines, aye waving to and fro, Sent forth a sleepy horror through the blood And where this valley winded out, below, The murmuring main was heard, and scarcely heard, to flow. A pleasing land of drowsy-head it was, Of dreams that wave before the half-@shut eye And of gay castles in the clouds that pass, For ever flushing round a summer-sky There eke the soft delights, that witchingly Instil a wanton sweetness through the breast And the calm pleasures always hovered nigh But whate'er smacked of noyance or unrest, Was far, far off expelled from this delicious nest. 1746. -@ PROLOGUE SPOKEN BY MR. GARRICK, AT THE OPENING OF THE THEATRE IN DRURY LANE, 1747. WHEN Learning's triumph o'er her barbarous foes First reared the stage, immortal Shakspere rose Each change of many-coloured life he drew, Exhausted worlds, and then imagined new Existence saw him spurn her bounded reign, And panting Time toiled after him in vain His powerful strokes presiding Truth impressed, And unresisted Passion stormed the breast. Then Jonson came, instructed from the school, To please in method, and invent by rule His studious patience and laborious art, By regular approach essayed the hear
 LIFE ! I know not what thou art, But know that thou and I must part And when, or how, or where we met I own to me's a secret yet. But this I know, when thou art fled, Where'er they lay these limbs, this head, No clod so valueless shall be As all that then remains of me. Oh whither, whither dost thou fly, Where bend unseen thy trackless course, And in this strange divorce, Ah, tell where I must seek this compound I ? To the vast ocean of empyreal flame From whence thy essence came Dost thou thy flight pursue, when freed From matter's base encumbering weed ? Or dost thou, hid from sight, Wait, like some spell-bound knight, Through blank oblivious years the appointed hour To break thy trance and re-assume thy power ? Yet can'st thou without thought or feeling be ? Oh say what art thou when no more thou'rt thee ? Life ! we've been long together Through pleasant and through cloudy weather 'Tis hard to part when friends are dear,@-Perhaps 'twill cost a sigh, a tear ' Sitting with Madame D'Arblay, some weeks before she died 1840 , I said to her, Do you remember those lines the first four and the last eight of Mrs. Barbauld's Life, which I once repeated to you ? Remember them ! she replied, I repeat them to my-self every night before I go to sleep. '@-@Roger
 you began to brabble. But now, quoth he, we will change our chidings to kissings, and it vexeth me that these cherry lipps should be subiect to such a Lob-cocke as thy husband. Subiect to him, quoth she In faith sir, no, I will haue my lips at as much liberty as my tongue, the one to say what I list, and the other to touch whom I like In troth, shall I tell thee, Cutbert, the churles breath smels so strong, that I care as much for kissing of him, as for looking on him it is such a mis-shapen mizer, and such a bundle of beastlinesse, that I can neuer thinke on him without spitting. Fie vpon him, I would my friends had carried me to my graue, when they went with me to the Church, to make him my husband. And so shedding a few dissembling teares, she stopt. What, my sweet Mistresse quoth he weepe you ? Nay sit downe by my side, and I will sing thee one of my Countrey Iigges to make thee merry. Wilt thou in faith quoth shee ? Yes verily, said Cutbert and in troth, quoth she,@if you fall a-singing I will sing with you. That is well you can so suddenly change your notes, quoth Cuthbert, then haue at it. MAN. Long haue I lou'd this bonny Lasse, Yet durst not shew the same. WOM. Therein you proue your selfe an Asse, MAN. I was the more to blame. Yet still will I remaine to thee, Trang dilly do, trang dilly Thy friend and louer secretly, WOM. Th@@ou art my owne sweet bull
 passions not his masters are, Whose soul is still prepared for death, Untied unto the worldly care Of public fame or private breath Who envies none that chance doth raise, Or vice who never understood How deepest wounds are given by praise Nor rules of state, but rules of good Who hath his life from rumours freed, Whose conscience is his strong retreat Whose state can neither flatterers feed, Nor ruin make accusers great Who God doth late and early pray More of His grace than gifts to lend And entertains the harmless day With a religious book or friend. This man is freed from servile bands Of hope to rise, or fear to fall Lord of himself, though not of lands And having nothing, yet hath all. 1614. -@Wotton. XCVI. WEEP NO MORE. WEEP no more, nor sigh, nor groan, Sorrow calls no time that's gone Violets plucked the sweetest rain Makes not fresh nor grow again Trim thy locks, look cheerfully Fate's hidden ends eyes cannot see Toys as winged dreams fly fast, Why should sadness longer last ? Grief is but a wound to woe Gentlest fair, mourn, mourn no more. -@Fletcher. 1614. From The Queen of Corint
 Oliver awoke in the morning, he was a good deal surprise@d to find that a new pair of shoes, with strong thick soles, had been placed at his bedside@ and that his old shoes had been removed. At first, he was pleased with the discovery@ hoping that it might be the forerun@ner of his release but such thoughts were quickly dispelled, on his sitting down to break@fast along with the Jew, who told him, in a tone and manner which increased his alarm, that he was to be taken to the residence of Bill Sikes that night. 'To--to--stop there, sir?' asked Oliver,  no, my dear. Not to stop there,' re@plied the Jew. 'We shouldn't like to lose you. Don't be afraid, Oliver, you shall come back to us again. Ha! ha! ha! We won't be so cruel as to send you away, my dear. Oh no, no!@@' The old man, who was stooping over the fire toasting a piece of bread, looked round as he bantered Oliver thus@ and chuckled as if to show that he knew he would still be very glad to get away if he could. 'I suppose,' said the Jew, fixing his eyes on Oliver, 'you want to know what you're going to Bill's for---eh, my dear?' Oliver coloured, involuntarily, to find that the old thief had been reading his thoughts but boldly said, Yes, he did want to know. 'Why, do you think?' inquired Fagin, par@rying the question. 'Indeed I don't know, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Bah!' said the Jew, turning away with a disappointed countenance from a close perusal of the boy's face. 'Wait till Bill tells you, then.' The Jew seemed much vexed by Oliver's not expressing any greater curiosity on the subject but the truth is, that, although Oliver felt very anxious, he was too much confused by the earnest cunning of Fagin's looks, and his own speculations, to make any further inquiries just then. He had no other opportunity for the Jew remained very surly and silent till night@ when he prepared to go abroad. 'You may burn a candle,' said the Jew, putting one upon the table. 'And here's a book for you to read, till they come to fetch you. Good-night!' 'Good-@@@@!' replied Oliver, softly. The Jew walked to the door@ looking over his shoulder at the boy as he went@@@@@. Suddenly stopping, he called him by his name. Oliver looked up the Jew, pointing to the candle, motioned him to light it. He did so and, as he placed the candlestick upon the table, saw that the Jew was gazing fixedly at him, with lowering and contracted brows, from the dark end of the room. 'Take heed, Oliver! take heed!' said the @@@@@old man, shaking his right hand before him in a warning manner. 'He's a rough man, and thinks nothing of blood when his own is up. Whatever falls out, say nothing@ and do what he bids you. Mind!' Placing a strong emphasis on the last word, he suffered his fea@tures gradually to resolve themselves into a ghastly grin, and, nodding his head, left the room. Oliver leaned his head upon his hand when the old man disappeared, and pondered, with a trembling heart, on the words he had just heard. The more he thought of the Jew's admonition, the more he was at a loss to divine its real pur@pose and meaning. He could think of no bad object to be attained by sending him to Sikes, which would not be equally well answered by his remaining with Fagin and after meditating for a long time, concluded that he had been selected to perform some ordinary menial offices for the housebreaker, until another boy, better suited for his purpose could be engaged. He was too well accustomed to suffering, and had suffered too much where he was, to bewail the prospect of@@ change very severely. He remained lost in thought for some minutes@ and then, with a heavy sigh, snuffed the candle, and, taking up the book which the Jew had left with him, began to read. He turned over the leaves. Carelessly at first@ but, lighting on a passage which attracted his attention, soon became intent upon the volume. It was a history of the lives and trials of great criminals@ and the pages were soiled and thumbed with use. Here, he read of dreadful crimes that made the blood run cold of secret murders that had been committed by the lonely wayside@ @of bodies hidden from the eye of man in deep pits and wells@ which would not keep them down, deep as they were, but had yielded them up at last, after many years, and so maddened the murderers with the sight, that in their horror they had confessed their guilt, and yelled for the gibbet to end their agony. Here, too, he read of men who, lying in their beds at dead of night, had been tempted and led on, by their own bad thoughts, to such dreadful bloodshed as it made the flesh creep, and the limbs quail, to think of. The terrible descrip@tions were so real and vivid, that the sallow pages seemed to turn red with gore@ and the words upon them, to be sounded in his ears, as if they were whispered, in hollow murmurs, by the spirits of the dead. In a paroxysm of fear, the boy closed the book, and thrust it from him. Then, falling upon his knees, he prayed Heaven to spare him from such deeds@ and rather to will that he should die at once, than be reserved for crimes, so fearful and appalling. By degrees, he grew more calm, and besought, in a low and broken voice, that he might be rescued from his present dangers@ and that if any aid were to be raised up for a poor outcast boy@ who had never known the love of friends or kindred, it might come to him now, when, desolate and deserted, he stood alone in the midst of wickedness and guilt. He had concluded his prayer, but still re@mained with his head buried in his hands, when a rustling noise aroused him. 'What's that!' he cried, starting up, and catching sight of a figure standing by the door. 'Who's there?' 'Me. Only me,' replied a tremulous voice. Oliver raised the candle above his head@ and looked towards the door. It was Nancy. 'Put down the light,' said the girl, turning away her head. 'It hurts my eyes.' Oliver saw that she was very pale, and gently inquired if she were ill. The girl threw herself into a chair, with her back towards him@ and wrung her hands but made no reply. 'God forgive me!' she cried after a while, 'I ne@ver thought of@@ this.' 'Has anything happened?' asked Oliver. 'Can I help you@? I will if I can. I will, in@deed.' She rocked herself to and fro@ caught her throat@ and, uttering a gurgling  for breath. 'Nancy!' cried  is it?' The girl beat her hands upon her knees, and her feet upon the groun@d and, suddenly stop@ping, drew her shawl close round her@ and shivered with cold. Oliver stirred the fire. Drawing her chair close to it, she sat there, for a little time, without speaking@ but at length she raised her head, and looked round. 'I don't know what comes over me some@times,' said she@@@@@, affecting to busy herself in arranging her dress 'it's this damp@ dirty room, I think. Now, Nolly, dear, are you ready?' 'Am I to go with you?' asked Oliver. 'Yes. I have come from Bill,' replied the girl. 'You are to go with me.' 'What for?' asked Oliver, recoiling. 'What for?' echoed the girl, raising her eyes, and averting them again, the moment they encountered the boy's face. 'Oh! For no harm.' 'I don't believe it,' said Oliver@ who had watched her closely. 'Have it your own way,' rejoined the girl, affecting to laugh. 'For no good, then.' Oliver could see that he had some power over the girl's better feelings, and, for an instant, thought of appealing to her compassion for his helpless state. But, then, the thought darted across his mind that it was barely eleven o'clock@ and that many people were still in the street@s of whom surely some might be found to give cre@dence to his tale. As the reflection occur@ed to him, he stepped forward@ and said, somewhat hastily, that he was ready. Neither his brief consideration, nor its pur@port, w@as lost @@on his companion. She eyed him narrowly, while he spoke@ and cast upon him a look of intelligence which sufficiently showed that she guessed what had been passing in his thoughts. 'Hush!' said the girl, stooping over him, and pointing to the door as she looked cau@tiously round. 'You can't help yourself. I have tried hard for you, but all to no purpose. You are hedged round and round@@@@. If ever you are to get loose from here, this is not the time.' Struck by the energy of her manner, Oliver@@@@@ looked up in her face with great surprise. She seemed to speak the truth her countenance was white and agitated@ and she trembled with very earnestness. 'I have saved you from being ill-used once, and I will again, and I do now,' continued the girl aloud 'for those who would have fetched you, if I had not, would have been far more rough than me. I have promised for your being quiet and silent if you are not, you will only do harm to yourself and me too, and per@haps be my death. See here! I have borne all this for you already, as true as God sees me show it.' She pointed, hastily, to some livid bruises @@on her neck and arms@ and continued, with great rapidity 'Remember this! And don't let me suffer more for you, just now. If I could help you, I would@ but I have not the power. They don't mean to harm you@ @@@@whatever they make you do, is no fault of yours. Hush! Every word from you is a blow for me. Give me your hand. Make haste! Your hand!' She caught the hand which Oliver instinc@tively placed in hers, and, blowing out the light, drew him after her up the stairs. The door was opened, quickly, by some one shrouded in the darkness, and as quickly closed, when they had passed out. A hackney-cabriolet was in waiting @@@@@with the same vehemence which she had exhibited in addressing Oliver, the girl pulled him in with her, and drew the cur@tains close. The driver wanted no directions, but lashed his horse into full speed, without the delay of an instant. The girl still held Oliver fast by the hand, and continued to pour into his ear, the warnings and assurances she had already imparted. All was so quick and hurried, that he had scarcely time to recollect where he was, or how he came there, when the carriage stopped at the @@@@@house to which the Jew's steps had been directed on the previous evening. For one brief moment, Oliver cast a hurried glance along the empty street, and a cry for help hung upon his lips. But the girl's voice was in his ear, beseeching him in such tones of agony to remember her, that he had not the heart to utter it. While he hesitated, the op@portunity was gone@@@@@ he was already in the house, and the door was shut. 'This way,' said the girl, releasing her hold for the first time. 'Bill!' 'Hallo!' replied Sikes@ appearing at the head of the stairs, with a candle. 'Oh! That's the time of day. Come on!' This was a very strong expression of appro@bation,ion, an uncommonly hearty welcome, from a person of Mr. Sikes'@ temperament. Nancy, appearing much gratified thereby, saluted him cordially. 'Bull's-eye's gone home with Tom,' observed Sikes, as he lighted them up. 'He'd have been in the way.' 'That's right,' rejoined Nancy. 'So you've got the kid,' said Sikes@ when they had all reached the room closing the door as he spoke. 'Yes, here he is,' replied Nancy. 'Did he come quiet?' inquired Sikes. 'Like a lamb,' rejoined Nancy. 'I'm glad to hear it,' said Sikes, looking @grimly at Oliver 'for the sake of his young carcase@ as would otherways have suffered for it. Come here, young 'un@ and let me read you a lectur', which is as well got over at once.' Thus addressing his new p@@upil, Mr. Sikes pulled off Oliver's cap and threw it into a corner and then, taking him by the shoulder, sat him@self down by the table, and stood the boy in front of him. 'Now, first@ do you know wot this is?' in@quired Sikes, taking up a pocket-pistol which lay on the table. Oliver replied in the affirmative. 'Well, then, look here,' continued Sikes. 'This is powder@ that 'ere's a bullet@ and this is a little bit of a old hat for waddin'.' Oliver murmured his comprehension of the different bodies referred to@ and Mr. Sikes pro@ceeded to load the pistol, with great nicety and deliberation. 'Now it's loaded,' said Mr. Sikes, when he had finished. 'Yes, I see it is, sir,' replied  said the robber, grasping Oliver's wrist@@@@@@@@, and putting the barrel so close to his temple that they touched@ at which moment the boy could not repress a start 'if you speak a word when you're out o'doors with me, except when I speak to you, that loading will be in your head without notice. So, if you _do_ make up your mind to speak without leave, say your prayers first.' Having bestowed a scowl upon the object of this warning, to increase its effect, Mr. Sikes continued. 'As near as I know, there isn't anybody as would be asking very partickler arter you, if you _was_ disposed of so I needn't take this devil-and-all of trouble to explain matters to you, if it warn't for your own good. D'ye hear me?' 'The short and the long of what you mean,' said Nancy@ speaking very emphatically, and slightly frowning at Oliver as if to bespeak his serious attention to her words 'is, that if you're crossed by him in this job you have on hand, you'll prevent his ever telling tales after@wards, by shooting him through the head, and will take your chance of swinging for it, as you do for a great many other things in the way of business, every month of your life.' 'That's it!' observed Mr. Sikes, approv@ingly 'women can always put things in fewest words.--Except when it's blowing up@ and then they lengthens it out. And now that he's thoroughly up to it, let's have some supper, and get a snooze before starting.' In pursuance of this request, Nancy quickly laid the cloth@@@@@@ disappearing for a few minutes, she presently returned with a pot of porter and a dish of sheep's heads@ which gave occa@sion to several pleasant witticisms on the part of Mr. Sikes, founded upon the singular coinci@dence of 'je@mmies' being a can@ name, com@mon to them,  an ingenious implement much used in his profession. Indeed, the worthy gentleman, stimulated perhaps by the imme@diate prospect of being on active service, was in great spirits and good humour in proof whereof, it may be here remarked, that he humourously drank all the beer at a draught, and did not utter, on a rough calculation, more than four-score oaths during the whole progress of the meal. Supper being ended--it may be easily con@ceived that Oliver had no great appetite for it--Mr. Sikes disposed of a couple of glasses of spirits and water, and threw himself @@on the be@d ordering Nancy, with many imprecations in case of failure, to call him at five precisely. Oliver stretched himself in his clothes, by com@mand of the same authority, on a mattress upon the floor and the girl, mending the fire, sat before it, in readiness to rouse them at the appointed time. For a long time Oliver lay awake, thinking it not impossible that Nancy might seek that op@portunity of whispering some further advice but the girl sat brooding over the fire, without moving, save now and then to trim the light. Weary with watching and anxiety, he at length fell asleep. When he awoke, the table was covered with tea-things, and Sikes was thrusting various articles into the pockets of his great-coat, which hung over the back of a chair@@@@@@. Nancy was busily engaged in preparing breakfast. It was not yet daylight@ for the candle was still burning, and it was quite dark outside. A sharp rain, too, was beating against the window-panes@ and the sky looked black and cloudy. 'Now, then!' growled Sikes, as Oliver started up 'half-past five! Look sharp, or you'll get no breakfast@ for it's late as it is.' Oliver was not long in making his toilet@@@@@ having taken some breakfast, he replied to a surly inquiry from Sikes, by saying that he was quite ready. Nancy, scarcely looking at the boy, threw him a handkerchief to tie round his throat@@@@@ Sikes gave him a large rough cape to button over his shoulders. Thus attired, he gave his hand to the robber, who, merely pausing to show him@ with a menacing gesture@ that he had that same pistol in a side-pocket of his great-coat, clasped it firmly in his, and, exchanging a fare@well with Nancy, led him away. Oliver turned, for an instant, when they reached the door, in the hope of meeting a look from the girl. But she had resumed her old seat in front of the fire, and sat, perfectly motionless before it.   was a cheerless morning when they got into the street@ blowing and raining hard@ and the clouds looking dull and stormy. The night had been very wet@ @@@@large pools of water had collected in the road and the kennels were over@flowing. There was a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky@ but it rather aggravated than relieved the gloom of the scene@ the sombre light only serving to pale that which the street lamps afforded, without shedding any warmer or brighter tints upon the wet house-tops, and dreary streets. There appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town@@@@@ the windows of the houses were all closely shut@ and the streets through which they passed, were noiseless and empty. By the time they had turned into the Bethnal Green Road, the day had fairly begun to break. Many of the lamps were already extinguished a few country waggons were slowly toiling on, to@wards Londo@@@n@ now and then, a stage-coach, covered with mud, rattled briskly by@ the driver bestowing, as he passed, and admonitory lash upon the heavy waggoner who, by keeping on the wrong side of the road, had endangered his arriving at the office, a quarter of a minute after his time. The public-houses, with gas-lights burning inside, were already open. By degrees, other shops began to be unclosed, and a few scattered people were met with. Then, came straggling groups of labourers going to their work then, men and women with fish-baskets on their heads donkey-carts laden with vege@table@s chaise-carts filled with live-stock or whole carcasses of meat milk-women with pails an@ @@@unbroken concourse of people, trudging out with various supplies to the eastern suburbs of the town. As they approached the City, the noise and traffic gradually increase@@@@d when they threaded the streets between Shoreditch and Smithfield, it had swelled into a roar of sound and bustle. It was as light as it was likely to be, till night came on again, and the busy morn@ing of half the London population had begun. Turning down Sun Street and Crown Street, and crossing Finsbury square, Mr. Sikes struck, by way of Chiswell Street, into Barbican@ thence into Long Lane, and so into Smithfield@ from which latter place arose a tumult of discordant sounds that filled Oliver Twist  It was market-morning. The ground was covered, nearly ankle-deep, with filth and mire a@@ @@thick steam, perpetually rising from the reeking bodies of the cattle, and mingling with the fog, which seemed to rest upon the chim@ney-tops, hung heavily above. All the pens in the centre of the large area, and as many tem@porary pens as could be crowded into the vacant space, were filled with sheep @@@@tied up to posts by the gutter side were long lines of beasts and oxen, three or four deep. Country@men, butchers, drovers, hawkers, boys, thieves, idlers, and vagabonds of every low grade, were mingled together in a @@@@@@mass the whistling of drovers, the barking@@@ dogs, the bellowing and plunging of the oxen, the bleating of sheep, the grunting and squeaking of pigs, the cries of hawkers, the shouts, oaths, and quarrelling on all sides the ringing of bells and roar of voices, that issued from every public-house the crowding, pushing, driving, beating, whooping@ and yelling the hideous and discordant dim that resounded from every corner of the market and the unwashed, unshaven, squalid, and dirty figures constantly running to and fro, and bursting in and out of the throng@ rendered it a stunning and bewildering scene, which quite confounded the senses. Mr. Sikes, dragging Oliver after him, elbowed his way through the thickest of the crowd, and bestowed very little attention @@on the nume@rous sights and sounds, which so astonished the boy. He nodded, twice or thrice, to a passing friend@ and, resisting as many invitations to take a morning dram, pressed steadily onward, until they were clear of the turmoil, and had made their way through Hosier Lane into Hol@born. 'Now, young 'un!' said @ up at the clock of St. Andrew's Church, 'hard upon seven@! you must step out. Co@me, don't lag behind already, Lazy-legs!' Mr. Sikes accompanied this speech with a@@@@@@@ jerk at his little companion's wrist@@@@ Oliver, quickening his pace into a kind of tro@t between a fast walk and a run, kept up with the rapid strides of the house-breaker as well as he could. They he@@@ld their course at this rate, until they had passed Hyde Park corner, and were on their way to Kensington@ when Sikes re@laxed his pace, until an empty cart which was at some little distance behind, came up@@@@@. Seeing 'Hounslow' written @@on it, he asked the driver@ with as much civility as he could assume, if he would give them a lift as far as Isleworth. 'Jump up,' said the man. 'Is that your boy?' 'Yes he's my boy,' replied Sikes, look@ing hard at Oliver, and putting his hand abstractedly into the pocket where the pistol was. 'Your father walks rather too quick for you, don't he, my man?' inquired the driver@ seeing that Oliver was out of breath. 'Not a bit of it,' replied Sikes, interposing. 'He's used to it. Here, take hold of my hand, Ned. In with you!' Thus addressing Oliver, he helped him into the cart and the driver, pointing to a heap of sacks, told him to lie down there, and rest him@self. As they passed the different mile-stones, Oliver wondered, more and more, where his companion meant to take him. Kensington, Hammersmith, Chiswick, Kew Bridge, Brent@ford, were all passed and yet they went on as steadily as if they had only just begun their journey. At length, they came to a public-house called the Coach and Horses@ a little way beyond which, another road appeared to run off. And here, the cart stopped. Sikes dismounted with great precipitation, holding Oliver by the hand all the while and@ lifting him down directly, bestowed a furious look upon him, and rapped the side-pocket with his fist, in a@@@@@ significant manner. 'Good-bye, boy,' said the man. 'He's sulky,' replied Sikes, giving him a shake 'he's sulky. A young dog!@@ Don't mind him.' 'Not I!' rejoined the other, getting into his cart. 'It's a fine day, after all.' And he drove away. Sikes waited until@ he had fairly gone@ and then, telling Oliver he might look about him if he wanted, once again led him @onward on his journey. They turned round to the left, a short way past the public-house@ and then, taking a right-hand road, walked on for a long time@ passing many large gardens and gentlemen's houses  sides of the way, and stopping for nothing but a little beer, until they reached a  the wall of a house, Oliver saw written up in pretty large letters, @@'@@@@' They lingered about, in the fields, for some hours. At length@ they came back into the town@ and,  public-house  public-house with a defaced sign-board,@@@@ ordered some dinner by the kitchen fire. The kitchen was an old, low-roofed room@ with a great beam across the middle of the ceil@ing, and benches, with high backs to them, by the fire@ on which were seated several rough men in smock-frocks, drinking and smoking. They took no notice of Oliver@ and very little of Sikes and, as Sikes took very little notice of them, he and his young comrade sat in a corner by themselves, without being much trou@bled by their company. They had some cold meat for dinner, and sat@@@@@ so long after it, while Mr. Sikes indulged himself with three or four pipes, that Oliver began to feel quite certain they were not going any further. Being much tired with the walk, and getting up so early, he dozed a little at first@ @@@@then, quite overpowered by@ fatigue and the fumes of the tobacco, fell@@@@@ asleep. It was quite dark when he was awakened by a push from Sikes. Rousing himself suf@ficiently to sit up and look about him, he found that worthy in close fellowship and com@munication with a labouring man, over a pint of ale. 'So, you're going on to Lower Halliford, are you?' inquired Sikes. 'Yes, I am,' replied the man, who seemed a little the worse--or better, as the case might be--for drinking 'and not slow about it neither. My horse hasn't got a load behind him going back, as he had coming up in the mornin'@ and he won't be long a-doing of it. Here's luck to him@. Ecod! he's a good 'un!' 'Could you give my boy and me a lift as far @@@@as there?' demanded Sikes, pushing the ale towards his new friend. 'If you're going directly, I can,' replied the man, looking out of the pot. 'Are you going to Halliford?' 'Going on to Shepperton,' replied Sikes. 'I'm your man, as far as I go,' replied the other. 'Is all paid, Becky?' 'Yes, the other gentleman's paid,' replied the girl. 'I say!' said the man, with tipsy gravity 'that won't do, you know.' 'Why not?' rejoined Sikes. 'You're a-going to accommodate us, and wot's to pre@vent my standing treat for a pint or so, in return?' The stranger reflected upon this argument, with a very profound face@ @@@@having done so, he seized Sikes by the hand@ and declared he was a real good fellow. To which Mr. Sikes replied, he was joking @as, if he had been sober, there would have been strong reason to suppose he was. After the exchange of a few more compli@ments, they bade the company good-night, and went out@ the girl gathering up the pots and glasses as they did so, and lounging out to the door, with her hands full, to see the party start. The horse, whose health had been drunk in his absence, was standing outside@ ready har@nessed to the cart. Oliver and Sikes got in without any further ceremony@ and the man@ to whom he belonged, having lingered for a minute or two 'to bear him up,' and to defy the hostler and the world to produce his equal, mounted also. Then, the hostler was told to give the horse his head@ and, his head being given him, he made a very unpleasant use of it@ tossing it into the air with great disdain, and running into the parlour windows over the way after per@forming those feats, and supporting himself for a short time on his hind-legs, he started off at great speed, and rattled out of the town right gallantly. The night was very dark. A damp mist rose from the river, and the marshy ground about@ and spread itself over the dreary fields. It was piercing cold, too all was gloomy and black. Not a word was spoken@ for the driver had grown sleepy@ and Sikes was in no mood to lead him into conversation. Oliver sat huddled together, in a corner of the cart@ bewildered with alarm and apprehension@ and figuring strange objects in the gaunt trees, whose branches waved grimly to and fro, as if in some fantastic joy at the desolation of the scene. As they passed Sunbury Church, the clock struck seven. There was a light in the ferry-house window opposite@ which streamed across the road, and threw into more sombre shadow a dark yew-tree with graves beneath it. There was a dull sound of falling water not far off@ and the leaves of the old tree stirred gently in the night wind. It seemed like quiet music for the repose of the dead. Sunbury was passed through, and they came again into the lonely road. Two or three miles more, and the cart stopped. Sikes alighte@@@ Oliver@ by the hand, and they once again walked on. They turned into no house at Shepperton, as the weary boy had expected@ but still kept walking on, in mud and darkness, through gloomy lanes and over cold open wastes, until they came within sight of the lights of a town at no great distance. On looking intently for@ward, Oliver saw that the water was just below them, and that they were coming to the foot of a bridge. Sikes kept straight on, until@ they were close upon the bridge@@@@@ then turned suddenly down a bank upon the left. 'The water!' thought Oliver, turning sick with fear. 'He has brought me to this lonely place to murder me!' He was about to throw himself on the ground, and make one struggle for his young life, when he saw that they stood before a solitary house@ all ruinous and decayed. There was a window on each side of the dilapidated entrance@ and one story above but no light was  dark, dismantled@ and@ the all appearance, uninhabited. Sikes, with Oliver's hand still in his, softly approached the low porch, and raised the latch. The door yielded to the pressure, and they passed in together. Chapter  cried a loud, hoarse  set foot in the passage. 'Don't make such a row,' said Sikes, bolt@ing the door. 'Show a glim, Toby.' 'Aha! my pal!' cried the same voice. 'A glim, Barney, a glim@! Show the gentleman in, Barney@@@@ wake up first, if convenient.' The speaker appeared to throw a boot-jack, or some such article, at the person he addressed, to rouse him from his slumbers for the noise of a wooden body, falling violently, was heard@ and then an indistinct muttering, as of a man between @sleep and awake. 'Do you hear?' cried the same voice. 'There's Bill Sikes in the passage with no@body to do the civil to him and you sleeping@@@@@ there, as if you took laudanum with your meals, and nothing stronger. Are you any fresher now, or do you want the iron candle@stick to wake you thoroughly?' A pair of slipshod feet shuffled, hastily, across the bare floor of the room, as this interrogatory was put and there issued, from a door on the right hand@ first, a feeble candle@ and next, the form of the same individual who has been here@tofore described as labouring under the infirmity of speaking through his nose, and officiating as waiter at the public-house on Saffron Hill. 'Bister Sikes!' exclaimed Barney, with real or counterfeit joy 'cub id, sir cub id.' 'Here! you get on first,' said Sikes, putting Oliver in front of him. 'Quicker! or I shall tread upon your heels.' Muttering a curse upon his tardiness, Sikes pushed Oliver before him@ and they entered a low dark room with a smoky fire, two or three broken chairs, a table, and a very old couch@ on which, with his legs much higher than his head, a man was reposing at full length, smoking a long clay pipe. He was dressed in a smartly-cut snuff-coloured coat, with large brass buttons@ an orange neckerchief@ a coarse, staring, shawl-pattern waistcoat@ and drab breeches. Mr. Crackit for he it was had no very great quan@tity of hair, either upon his head or face@ but what he had, was of a reddish dye, and tortured into long corkscrew curls, through which he occasionally thrust some very dirty fingers, or@namented with large common rings. He was a trifle above the middle size, and appare@ntly rather weak in the legs but this circumstance by no means detracted from his own admira@tion of his top-boots, which he contemplated, in their elevated situation, with lively satis@faction. @'Bill, my boy!' said this figure, turning his head towards the door, 'I'm glad to see you. I was almost afraid you'd given it up@ in which case I should have made a personal wentur. Hallo!' Uttering this exclamation in a tone of great surprise, as his eyes rested on Oliver, Mr. Toby Crackit brought himself into a sitting posture, and demanded who that was. 'The boy. Only the boy!' replied Sikes, drawing a chair towards the fire. 'Wud of Bister Fagid's lads,' exclaimed Barney, with a grin. 'Fagin's, eh!' exclaimed Toby, looking at Oliver. 'Wot an inwalable boy that'll make, for the old ladies' pockets in chapels! His mug is a fortin' to him.' 'There--there's enough of that,' inter@posed Sikes, impatiently@ and stooping over his recumbant friend, he whispered a few words in his ear@ at which Mr. Crackit laughed im@mensely, and honoured Oliver with a long stare of astonishment. 'Now,' said Sikes, as he resumed his seat, 'if you'll give us something to eat and drink while we're waiting, you'll put some heart in us@ or in me, at all events. Sit down by the fire, younker, and rest yourself for you'll have to go out with us again to-night, though not very far off.' Oliver looked at Sikes, in mute and timid wonder@ and drawing a stool to the fire, sat with his aching head upon his hands, scarecely knowing where he was, or what was passing around him. 'Here,' said Toby, as the young Jew placed some fragments of food, and a bottle upon the table, 'Success to the crack!' He rose to honour the toast@ and, carefully depositing his empty pipe in a corner, advanced to the table, filled a glass with spirits, and drank off its con@tents. Mr. Sikes did the same. 'A drain for the boy,' said Toby, half-filling a wine-glass. 'Down with it, innocence.' 'Indeed,' said Oliver, looking piteously up into the man's face 'indeed, I--' 'Down with it!' echoed Toby. 'Do you think I don't know what's good for you@? Tell him to drink it, Bill.' 'He had better!' said Sikes@ clapping his hand upon his pocket. 'Burn my body, if he isn't more trouble than a whole family of Dodgers. Drink it, you perwerse imp drink it!' Frightened by the menacing gestures of the two men, Oliver hastily swallowed the contents of the glass, and immediately fell into a violent fit of coughing@ which delighted Toby Crackit and Barney, and even drew a smile from the surly Mr. Sikes. This done, and Sikes having satisfied his appetite Oliver could eat nothing but a small crust of bread which they made him swallow , the two men laid themselves down on chairs for a short nap. Oliver retained his stool by the fire @@@@Barney@ wrapped in a blanket, stretched himself on the floor@ close outside the fender. They slept, or appeared to sleep, for some time nobody stirring but Barney, who rose once or twice to throw coals @@on the fire. Oliver fell into a heavy doze@ imagining himself straying alon@@@@@@@g@ the gloomy lanes, or wandering about the dark churchyard, or re@tracing some one or other of the scenes of the past day@ when he was roused by Toby Crackit jumping up and declaring it was half-past one. In an instant, the other two were on their legs, and all were actively engaged in busy preparation. Sikes and his companion enve@loped their necks and chins in large dark shawls, and drew on their great-coats@  opening a cupboard, brought forth several articles, which he hastily crammed into the pockets. 'Barkers for me, Barney,' said Toby Crackit. 'Here they are,' replied Barney, producing a pair of pistols. 'You loaded them your@self.' 'All right!' replied Toby, stowing them away. 'The persuaders?' 'I've got 'em,' replied Sikes. 'Crape, keys, centre-bits, darkies--nothing forgotten?' inquired Toby@ fastening a small crowbar to a loop inside the skirt of his coat. 'All right,' rejoined his companion. 'Bring them bits of timber, Barney. That's the time of day.' With these words, he took a thick stick from Barney's hands, who, having delivered another to Toby, busied himself in fastening on Oliver's cape. 'Now then!' said Sikes, holding out his hand. Oliver@ who was completely stupified by the unwonted exercise, and the air, and the drink which had been forced upon him@ put his hand mechanically into that which Sikes extended for the purpose. 'Take his other hand, Toby,' said Sikes. 'Look out, Barney.' The man went to the door, and returned to announce that all was quiet. The two robbers issued forth with Oliver between them@@@. Barney, having made all fast, rolled himself up as before, and was soon asleep again. It was now intensely dark. The fog was much heavier than it had been in the early part of the night@ and the atmosphere was so damp, that, although no rain fell, Oliver's hair and eyebrows, within a few minutes after leaving the house, had become stiff with the half-frozen moisture that was floating about. They crossed the bridge, and kept on towards the lights which he had seen before. They were at no great distance off and, as they walked pretty briskly, they soon arrived at Chertsey. 'Slap through@ the @@town,' whispered Sikes 'there'll be nobody in the way, to-night, to see us.' Toby acquiesced and they hurried through the main street of the little town, which at that late hour was wholly deserted. A dim light shone at intervals from some bed-room window@ and the hoarse barking of dogs occasionally broke the silence of the night. But there was nobody abroad@@@@. They had cleared the town, as the church-bell struck two. Quickening their pace, they turned up a road upon the left hand. After walking about a quar@ter of a mile, they stopped before a detached house surrounded by a wall@ to the top of which, Toby Crackit, scarcely pausing to take breath, climbed in a twinkling. 'The boy next,' said Toby. 'Hoist him up I'll catch hold of him.' Before Oliver had time to look round, Sikes had caught him under the arms@ and in three or four seconds he and Toby were lying on the grass on the other side. Sikes followed di@rectly. And they stole cautiously towards the house. And now, for the first time, Oliver, well-nigh mad with grief and terror, saw that housebreak@ing and robbery, if not murder, were the objects of the expedition. He clasped his hands together, and involuntarily uttered a subdued exclamation of horror. A mist came before his eyes@ the cold sweat stood upon his ashy face@ his limbs failed him@ and he sank upon his knees. 'Get up!' murmured Sikes, trembling with rage, and drawing the pistol from his pocket 'Get up, or I'll strew your brains upon the grass.' 'Oh! for God's sake let me go!' cried Oliver 'let me run away and die in the fields. I will never come near London never, never! Oh@! pray have mercy @@on me, and do not make me steal. For the love of all the bright Angels that rest in Heaven, have mercy upon me!' The man to whom this appeal was made, swore a dreadful oath, and had cocked the pistol, when Toby, striking it from his grasp, placed his hand upon the boy's mouth, and dragged him to the house. 'Hush!' cried the man 'it won't answer here. Say another word, and I'll do your business myself with a crack on the head. That makes no noise, and is quite as certain, and more genteel. Here, Bill, wrench the shutter open. He's game enough@ now, I'll engage. I've seen older hands of his age took the same way, for a minute or two, on a cold night.' Sikes, invoking terrific imprecations upon Fagin's head for sending Oliver on such an errand, plied the crowbar vigorously, but with little noise. After some delay, and some assistance from Toby, the shutter to which he had referred, swung open on its hinges. It was a little lattice window, about five feet and a half above the ground, at the back of the house@ which belonged to a scullery, or small brewing-place, at the end of the passage. The aperture was so small, that the inmates had pro@bably not thought it worth while to defend it more securely but it was large enough to admit a boy of Oliver's size, nevertheless. A very brief exercise of Mr. Sike@'s art, sufficed to overcome the fastening of the lattice@ and it soon stood wide open also. 'Now listen, you young limb,' whispered Sikes, drawing a dark lantern from his pocket, and throwing the glare full on Oliver's face 'I'm a going to put you through there. Take this light@ go softly up the steps straight afore you, and along the little hall, to the street door unfasten it, and let us in.' 'There's a bolt at the top, you won't be able to reach,' interposed Toby. 'Stand upon one of the hall chairs. There are three there, Bill, with a jolly large blue unicorn and@@ gold pitch@fork on 'em@ which is the old lady's arms.' 'Keep quiet, can't you?' replied Sikes, with a threatening look. 'The room-door is open, is it?' 'Wide,' replied Toby, after peeping in to satisfy himself. 'The game of that is, that they always leave it open with a catch, so that the dog, who's got a bed in here, may walk up and down the passage when he feels wakeful. Ha@! ha! Barney 'ticed him away to-night. So neat!' Although Mr. Crackit spoke in a scarcely audible whisper, and laughed without noise, Sikes imperiously commanded him to be silent, and to get to work. Toby complied, by first producing his lantern, and placing it on the grou@@@@nd then by planting himself firmly with his head against the wall beneath the window, and his hands upon his knees, so as to make a step of his back. This was no sooner done, than Sikes, @mounting upon him, put O@iver gently through the window with his feet first and, without leaving hold of his collar, planted him safely on the floor inside. 'Take this lantern,' said Sikes, looking into the room. 'You see the stairs afore you?' Oliver, more dead than alive, gasped out, 'Yes@@.' Sikes, pointing to the street-door with the pistol-barrel, briefly advised him to take notice that he was within shot all the way@ and that if he faltered, he would fall dead that instant. 'It's done in a minute,' said Sikes, in the same low whisper. 'Directly I leave go of you, do your work. Hark!' 'What's that?' whispered the other man. They listened intently. 'Nothing,' said Sikes, releasing his hold of Oliver. 'Now!' In the short time he had had to collect his senses, the boy had firmly resolved that, whe@ther he died in the attempt or not, he would make one effort to dart up@stairs from the hall, and alarm the family. Filled with this idea, he advanced at once, but stealthily. 'Co@me back!' suddenly cried Sikes aloud. 'Back!k! back!' Scared by the sudden breaking of the dead stillness of the place, and by a loud cry which fol@lowed it, Oliver let his lantern fall, and knew not whether to advance or fly. The cry was repeated--a light appeared--a vision of two terrified half-dressed men at the top of the stairs swam before his eyes--a flash--a loud noise--a smoke--a crash somewhere, but where he knew not,--and he staggered back. Sikes had disappeared for an instant but he was up again, and had him by the collar before t@he smoke had cleared away. He fired his own pistol after the men, who were already retreat@ing@ and dragged the boy up. 'Clasp your arm tighter,' said Sikes, as he drew him through the window. 'Give me a shawl here. They've hit him.@  the boy bleeds!' Then came the loud ringing of a bell, mingled with the noise of fire-arms, and the shouts of men, and the sensation of being carried over uneven ground at a rapid pace. And then, the noises grew confused in the distance@ and a cold deadly feeling crept over the boy's heart@ and he saw or heard no more. Chapter  night was bitter cold. The snow lay @@on the ground, frozen into a hard thick crust, so that only the heaps that had drifted into by@ways and corners were affected by the sharp wind that howled abroad@ which, as if expend@ing increased fury on such prey as it found, caught it savagely up in clouds, and, whirling it into a thousand misty eddies, scattered it in air. Bleak, dark, and piercing cold, it was a night for the well-housed and fed to draw round the bright fire and thank God they were at home@ and for the homeless, starving wretch to lay him down and die. Many hunger-worn out@casts close their eyes in our bare streets, at such times, who, let their crimes have been what they may, can hardly open them in a more bitter world. Such was the aspect of out-of-doors affairs, when Mrs. Corney, the matron of the work@hous@e to which our readers have been already introduced as the birthplace of Oliver Twist, sat herself down before a cheerful fire in her own little room, and glanced, with no small de@gree of complacency, at a small round table@ on which stood a tray of corresponding size, fur@nished with all necessary materials for the most grateful meal that matrons enjoy. In fact, Mrs. Corney was about to solace herself with a cup of te@@a@. As she glanced from the table to the fireplace, where the smallest of all pos@sible kettles was singing a small song in a small voice, her inward satisfaction evidently in@creased,--so much so, indeed, that Mrs. Corney smiled. 'Well!' said the matron, leaning her elbow on the table, and looking reflectively at the fire 'I'm sure we have all on us a great  be grateful for! A great deal, if we did but know it. Ah!' Mrs. Corney shook her head mournfully, as if deploring the mental blindness of those paupers who did not know it@ and thrusting a silver spoon private property into the inmost re@cesses of a two-ounce tin tea-caddy, proceeded to make the tea. How slight a thing will disturb the equa@nimity of our frail minds! The black teapot, being very small and easily filled, ran over while Mrs. Corney was moralising@ and the water slightly scalded Mrs. Corney's hand. 'Drat the pot!' said the worthy matron, setting it down very hastily on the hob 'a little stupid thing, that only holds a couple of cups! What use is it of, to any@body@! Ex@cept,' said Mrs. Corney, pausing, 'except to a poor desolate creature like me. Oh dear!' With these words, the matron dropped into her chair, and, once more resting her elbow on the table, thought of her solitary fate. The small teapot, and the single cup, had awakened in her mind sad recollections of Mr. Corney who had not been dead more than five-and-twenty years@@ and she was overpowered. 'I shall never get another!' said Mrs. Corney, pettishly 'I shall never get another--like him.' Whether this remark bore reference to the husband, or the teapot, is uncertain. It might have been the latter for Mrs. Corney looked at it as she spoke@ and took it up afterwards. She had just tasted her first cup, when she was disturbed by a soft tap at the room-door. 'Oh, come in with you!' said Mrs. Corney, sharply. 'Some of the old women dying, I suppose. They always die when I'm at meals. Don't stand there, letting the cold air in, don't. What's amiss now, eh?' 'Nothing, ma'am, nothing,' replied a man's voice. 'Dear me!' exclaimed the matron, in a much sweeter tone, 'is that Mr. Bumble?' 'At your service, ma'am,' said Mr. Bum@ble, who had been stopping outside to rub his shoes clean, and to shake the snow off his coat@ @@@and who now made his appearance, bearing the cocked hat in one hand and a bundle in the other. 'Shall I shut the door, ma'am?' The lady modestly hesitated to reply, lest there should be any impropriety in holding an interview with Mr. Bumble, with closed doors. Mr. Bumble@ taking advantage of the hesita@tion, and being very cold himself, shut it  permission. 'Hard weather, Mr. Bumble,' said the @matron. 'Hard, indeed, ma'am,' replied the beadle. 'Anti-porochial weather this, ma'am. We have given away, Mrs. Corney, we have given away a matter of twenty quartern loaves and a cheese and a half, this very blessed afternoon and yet them paupers are not contented.' 'Of course not. When would they be, Mr. Bumble?' said the matron, sipping her tea. 'When, indeed, ma'am!' rejoined Mr. Bum@ble. 'Why@ here's one man that, in considera@tion of his wife and large family, has a quartern loaf and a good pound of cheese, full weight. Is he grateful, ma'am? Is he gratef@ul@? Not a copper farthing's worth of it! What does he do, ma'am, but ask for a few coals@ if it's only a pocket handkerchief full, he says@! Coals! What would he do with coals@? Toast his cheese with 'em@ and then co@me back for more. That's the way with these people, ma'am @give 'em a apron full of coals to-day, and they'll come back for another, the day after to-morrow, as brazen as alabaster.' The matron expressed her entire concurrence in this intelligible simile@ and the beadle went on. 'I never,' said Mr. Bumble, 'see anything like the pitch it's got to. The day afore yes@terday, a man--you have been a married wo@man, ma'am, and I may mention it to you--a man, with hardly a rag upon his back here Mrs. Corney looked at the floor , goes to our overseer's door when he has got company coming to dinner@ and says, he must be re@lieved, Mrs. Corney. As he wouldn't go away, and shocked the company very much, our over@seer sent him out a pound of potatoes and half a pint of oatmeal. My heart! says the un@grateful villain, what's the use of _this_ to me@?@@ You might as well give me a pair of iron spec@tacles!Very good,@ says our overseer, taking 'em away again, @you won't get anything else here. Then I'll die in the streets@@! says the vagrant. Oh no, you won't,@ says our over@seer.' 'Ha! ha@! That was very good@! So like Mr. Grannett, wasn't it?' interposed the ma@tron. 'Well, Mr. Bumble?' 'Well, ma'am,' rejoined the beadle, 'he went away and he _did_ die in the streets. There's a obstinate pauper for you!' 'It beats anything I could have believed,' observed the matron@ emphatically. 'But don't you think out-of-door relief a very bad thing, any way, Mr. Bumble@? You're a gentleman of experience, and ought to know. Come.' 'Mrs. Corney,' said the beadle, smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior in@formation, 'out-of-door relief, properly ma@naged@ properly managed, ma'am@ is the porochial safeguard. The great principle of out-of-door relief is, to give the paupers ex@actly what they don't want@ and then they get tired of coming.' 'Dear me!' exclaimed Mrs. Corney. 'Well, that is a good one, too!' 'Yes. Betwixt you and me, ma'am,' re@turned Mr. Bumble, @@'that's the great principle and that's the reason why, if you look at any cases that get into them owdacious newspapers, you'll always observe that sick families have been relieved with slices of cheese. That's the rule now, Mrs. Corney, all over the country. But, however,' said the beadle, stopping to unpack his bundle, 'these are official secrets, ma'am not to be spoken of except, as I may say, among the porochial officers, such as our@selves. This is the port wine, ma'am, that the board ordered for the infirmary@ real, fresh, genuine port wine@ only out of the cask this @forenoon@ clear as a bell, and no sediment!' Having held the first bottle up to the light, and shaken it well to test its excellence, Mr. Bumble placed them both on t@@@@op of a chest of drawers@ folded the handkerchief in which they had been wrapped@ put it carefully in his pocke@t and took up his hat, as if to go. 'You'll have a very cold walk, Mr. Bumble,' said the matron. 'It blows, ma'am,' replied Mr. Bumble, turning up his coat-collar, 'enough to cut one's ears off.' The matron looked, from the little kettle, to the beadle, who was moving towards the door@ and as the beadle coughed, preparatory to bid@ding her good-night, bashfully inquired whether--whether he wouldn't take a cup of tea@? Mr. Bumble instantaneously turned back his collar again@ laid his hat and stick upon a chair@ and drew another chair up to the table. As he slowly seated himself, he looked at the lady. She fixed her eyes upon the little teapot. Mr. Bumble coughed again, and slightly smiled. Mrs. Corney rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet. As she sat down, her eyes once again encountered those of the gallant beadle she coloured, and applied herself to the task of making his tea. Again Mr. B@umble coughed--louder this time than he had coughed yet. 'Sweet@? Mr. Bumble?' inquired the matron, taking up the sugar-basin. 'Very sweet, indeed, ma'am,' replied Mr. Bumble. He fixed his eyes on Mrs. Corney as he said this and if ever a beadle looked ten@der, Mr. Bumble was that beadle at that mo@ment. The tea was made, and handed in silence. Mr. Bumble, having spread a handkerchief over his knees to prevent the crumbs from sullying the splendour of his shorts, began to eat and drink varying these amusements, occasionally, by fetching a deep sigh@ which, however, had no injurious effect upon his appetite, but, on the contrary, rather seemed to facilitate his opera@tions in the tea and toast department. 'You have a cat, ma'am, I see,' said Mr. Bumble, glancing at one@ who, in the centre of@ her family, was basking before the fire 'and kittens too, I declare!' 'I am so fond of them, Mr. Bumble, you can't think,' replied the matron. 'They're @@_so_ happy, _so_ frolicsome, and _so_ cheerful, that they are quite companions for me.' 'Very nice animals, ma'am,' replied Mr. Bumble, approvingly 'so very domestic.' 'Oh, yes!' rejoined the matron@ with en@thusiasm 'so fond of their home too, that it's quite a pleasure, I'm sure.' 'Mrs. Corney, ma'am,' said Mr. Bumble, slowly, and marking the time with his teaspoon, mean to say this, ma'am@ that any cat, or kitten, that could live with you, ma'am, and _not_ be fond ofits home, must be a ass, ma'am.' 'Oh, Mr. Bumble!' remonstrated Mrs. Corney. 'It's of no use disguising facts, ma'am,' said Mr. Bumble, slowly flourishing the teaspoon with a kind of amorous dignity which made him doubly impressive 'I would drown it myself, with pleasure.' 'Then you're a cruel man,' said the matron vivaciously, as she held out her hand for the beadle's cup 'and a very hard-hearted man besides.' 'Hard-hearted, ma'am?' said Mr. Bumble. 'Hard?' Mr. Bumble resigned his cup with@out another word@ squeezed Mrs. Corney's little finger as she @took it@ and inflicting two open-handed slaps upon his laced waistcoat, gave a mighty sigh, and hitched his chair a very little morsel farther from the fire. It was a round table and as Mrs. Corney and Mr. Bumble had been sitting opposite each other, with no great space between them, and fronting the fire, it will be seen that Mr. Bumble, in receding from the fire, and still keeping at the table, increased the distance between himself and Mrs. Corney which proceeding, some prudent readers will doubtless be disposed to admire, and to consider an act of great heroism on Mr. Bumble's par@t he being in some sort tempted by time, place, and opportu@nity, to give utterance to certain soft nothings, which@ however well they may become the lips of the light and thoughtless, do seem im@measurably beneath the dignity of judges of the land, members of parliament, ministers of state, lord mayors, and other great public function@aries, but more particularly beneath the stateli@ness and gravity of a beadl@e who as is well known should be the sternest@ and most in@flexible among them all. Whatever were Mr. Bumble's intentions, however@ and no doubt they were of the  it unfortunately@ hap@pened, as has been twice before remarked, that the table was a round one consequently@ Mr. Bumble, moving his chair by little and little, soon began to diminish the distance between himself and the matron@ and, continuing to travel round the outer edge of the circle, brought his chair, in time, close to that in which the matron was seated. Indeed, the two chairs touched and when they did so, Mr. Bumble stopped. Now, if the matron had moved her chair to the right, she would have been scorched by the fire@ and if to the left, she must have fallen into Mr. Bumble's arms so being a discreet matron, and no doubt foreseeing these conse@quences at a glance she remained where she was, and handed Mr. Bumble another cup of tea. 'Hard-hearted, Mrs. Corney?' said Mr. Bumble, stirring his tea, and looking up into the matron's face 'are _you_ hard-hearted, Mrs. Corney?' 'Dear me!' exclaimed the matron, 'what a very curious question from a single man. What can you want to know for, Mr. Bumble?' The beadle drank his tea to the last drop@ finished a piece of toast@ whisked the crumbs off his knees@ wiped his lips@ and deliberately kissed the matron. 'Mr. Bumble!' cried that discreet lady in a whisper@ for the fright was so great, that she had quite lost her voice, 'Mr. Bumble, I shall scream!' Mr. Bumble made no reply@ but in a slow and dignified manner, put his arm round the matron's waist. As the lady had stated her intention of screaming, of course she would have screamed at this additional boldness, but that the exertion was rendered unnecessary by a hasty knocking at the doo@r which was no sooner heard, than Mr. Bumble darted, with much agility, to the wine bottles, and began dusting them with great violence@ while the matron sharply de@manded who was there. It is worthy of remark, as a curious physical instance of the efficacy of a sudden surprise in counteracting the effects of extreme fear, that her voice had quite recovered all its official asperity. 'If you please, mistress,' said a withered old female pauper, hideously ugly@ putting her head in at the door, 'Old Sally is a-going fast.' 'Well, what's that to me?' angrily de@manded the matron. 'I can't keep her alive, can I?' 'No, no, mistress,' replied the old wo@man, 'nobody can she's far beyond the reach of help. I've seen a many people die@ little babes and great strong men@ and I know when death's a-coming, well enough. But she's troubled in her mind and when the fits are not on her,--and that's not often, for she is dying very hard,--she says she has got something to tell, which you must hear. She'll never die quiet till you co@me, mistress.' At this intelligence, the worthy Mrs. Corney muttered a variety of invectives against old women who couldn't even die without purposely annoying their betters and, muffling herself in a thick shawl which she hastily caught up, briefly requested Mr. Bumble to stay till she came back, lest anything particular should occur@@@@. Bidding the messenger walk fast, and not be all night hobbling up the stairs, followed her from the room with a very ill grace, scold@ing all the way. Mr. Bumble's conduct on being left to him@self, was rather inexplicable. He opened the closet, counted the tea@spoons, weighed the sugar-tongs, closely inspected a silver milk-pot to ascertain that it was of the genuine metal, and, having satisfied his curiosity @@on these points, put on his cocked hat corner-wise, and danced with much gravity four distinct times round the table. Having gone through this very extraordinary performance, he took off the cocked hat again, and, spreading himself before the fire with his back towards it, seemed to be mentally engaged in taking an exact inventory of the furniture. Chapter  was no unfit messenger of death, wh@o had disturbed the quiet of the matron's room. Her body was bent by age@ her limbs trembled with palsy@@@@@ her face, distorted into a mumbling leer, resembled more the grotesque shaping of so@me wild pencil, than the work of Nature's hand. Alas! How few of Nature's faces  to gladden us with their beauty! The cares, and sorrows, and hungerings, of the world, change them as they change hearts@ and it is only when those passions sleep, and have lost their hold for ever, that the troubled clouds pass off, and leave Heaven's surface clear. It is a common thing for the countenances of the dead, even in that fixed and rigid state, to subside into the long-forgotten expression of sleeping infancy, and settle into the very look of early life so calm, so peaceful, do they grow again, that those who knew them in their happy childhood, kneel by the coffin's side in awe, and see the Angel even upon earth. The old crone tottered along the passages, and up the stairs, muttering some indistinct answers to the chidings of her companion @@@@being at length compelled to pause for breath, she gave the light into her hand, and remained behind to follow as she might@ while the more nimble superior made her way to the room where the sick woman lay. It was a bare garret-room, with a dim light burning at the farther end. There was another old woman watching by the be@@@@@d the parish apothecary's apprentice was standing by the fire, making a toothpick out of a quill. 'Cold night, Mrs. Corney,' said this young gentleman, as the matron entered. 'Very cold, indeed, sir,' replied the mistress, in her most civil tones, and dropping a curtsey as she spoke. 'You should get better coals out of your contractors,' said the apothecary's deputy, breaking a lump on the top of the fire with the rusty poker 'these are not at all the sort of thing for a cold night.' 'They're the board's choosing, sir,' re@turned the matron. 'The least they could do, would be to keep us pretty warm@ for our places are hard enough.' The conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick woman. 'Oh!' said the young mag, turning his face towards the bed, as if he had previously quite forgotten the patient, 'it's all U.@P. there, Mrs. Corney.' 'It is, is it, sir?' asked the matron. 'If she lasts a@ couple of hours, I shall be surprised,' said the apothecary's apprentice, intent upon the toothpick's point. 'It's a break-up of the system altogether. Is she dozing, old lady?' The attendant stooped over the bed, to ascer@tain@ and nodded in the affirmative. 'Then perhaps she'll go off in that way, if you don't make a row,' said the young man. 'Put the light on the floor. She won't see it there.' The attendant did as she was told@@@ shaking her head meanwhile, to intimate that the woman would not die so easily@@@@ having done so, she resumed her seat by the side of the other nurse, who had by this time returned. The mistress, with an expression of impatience, wrapped her@self in her shawl, and sat at the foot of the bed. The apothecary's apprentice, having co@@mpleted the manufacture of the toothpick, planted himself in front of the fire and made good use of it for ten minutes or so@ when@ apparentlyly growing rather dull, he wished Mrs. Corney joy of her job, and took himself off on tiptoe. When they had sat in silence for some time, the two old women rose from the bed, and crouching over the fire, held out their withered hands to catch the heat. The flame thre@w a ghastly light on their shrivelled faces, and made their ugliness  as, in this position, they began to converse in a low voice. 'Did she say any more, Anny dear, while I was gone?' inquired the messenger. 'Not a word,' replied the other. 'She plucked and tore at her arms for a little time but I held her hands, and she soon dropped off. She hasn't much strength in her, so I easily kept her quiet. I ain't so weak for an old woman, although I am on parish allowance @no, no!' 'Did she drink the hot wine the doctor said she was to have?' demanded the first. 'I tried to get it down,' rejoined the other. 'But her teeth were tight set, and she clenched the mug so hard that it was as much as I could do to get it back again. So I drank it@ and it did me good!' Looking cautiously round, to ascertain that they were not overheard, the two hags cowered nearer to the fire, and chuckled heartily. 'I mind the time,' said the first speaker, 'when she would have done the same, and made rare fun of it afterwards.' 'Ay, that she would,' rejoined the other 'she had a merry heart. 'A many, many, beau@tiful corpses she laid out, as nice and neat as wax@work. My old eyes have seen them--ay, and those old hands touched them too for I have helped her, scores of times.' Stretching forth her trembling fingers as she spoke, the old creature shook them ex@ultingly before her face, and fumbling in her pocket, brought out an old time-discoloured tin snuff-box, from which she shook a few grains into the outstretched palm of her companion, and a few more into her own. While they were thus employed, the matron, who had been im@patiently watching until the dying woman should awaken from her stupor, joined them by the fire, and sharply asked how long she was to wait? 'Not long, mistress,' replied the second woman, looking up into her face. 'We have none of us long to wait for Death. Patience, patience! He'll be here soon enough for us all.' 'Hold your tongue, you doting idiot!' said the matron@ sternly. 'You, Martha, tell me has she been in this way before?' 'Often,' answered the first woman. 'But will never be again,' added the second one 'that is, she'll never wake again but once--and mind, mistress, that won't be for long!' 'Long or short,' said the matron, snap@pishly, 'she won't find me here when she does wake take care, both of you, how you worry me again for nothing. It's no part of my duty to see all the old women in the house die, and I won't--that's more. Mind that, you impudent old harridans. If you make a fool of me again, I'll soon cure you, I warrant you!' She was bouncing away, when a cry from the two women, who had turned towards the bed, caused her to look round.  raised herself upright, and was stretching her arms towards them. 'Who's that?' she cried, in a hollow voice. 'Hush, hush!' said one of the women, stooping over her. 'Lie down, lie down!' 'I'll never lie down again alive!' said the woman, struggling. 'I _will her@! Co@me here! Nearer! Let me whisper in your ear.' She clutched the matron by the arm, and forcing her into a chair by the bedside, was about to speak, when looking round, she caught sight of the two old women bending forward in the attitude of eager listeners. 'Turn them away,' said the woman, drowsily 'make haste! make haste!' The two old crones, chiming in together, began pouring out many piteous lamentations that the poor dear was too far gone to know her best friends@ and were uttering sundry protestations that they would never leave her, when the superior pushed them from the room, closed the door, and returned to the bedside. On being excluded, the old ladies changed their tone, and cried through the keyhole that old Sally was drunk which, indeed, was not un@likely@ since, in addition to a moderate dose of opium prescribed by the apothecary, she was labouring under the effects of a final taste of gin-and-water which had been privily administered, in the openness of their hearts, by the worthy old ladies themselves. 'Now listen to me,' said the dying woman@ aloud, as if making a great effort to revive one latent spark of energy. 'In this very room--in this very bed--I once nursed a pretty young creetur', that was brought into the house with her feet cut and bruised with walking, and all soiled with dust and blood. She gave birth to a boy, and died. Let me think--what was the year again!' 'Never mind the year,' said the impatient auditor 'what about her?' 'Ay,' murmured the sick woman, relapsing into her former drowsy state, 'what about her?--what about--I know!' she cried, jumping fiercely up her face flushed, and her eyes start@ing from her head--'I robbed her, so I did@! She wasn't cold--I tell you she wasn't cold, when I stole it!' 'Stole what, for God's sake?' cried  with a gesture as if she would call for help. '_It_!' replied the woman, laying her hand over the other's mouth. 'The only thing she had. She wanted clothes to keep her warm, and food to eat but she had kept it safe, and had it in her bosom. It was gold, I tell you! Rich gold, that might have saved her life!' 'Gold!' echoed the matron, bending eagerly over the woman as she fell back. 'Go on, go on--yes--what of it? Who was the mother? @When was it?' 'She charge@ me to keep it safe,' replied the woman@ with a groan, 'and trusted me as the only woman about her. I stole it in my heart when she first showed it me hanging round her neck and the child's death, perhaps, is on me besides! They would have treated him better, if they had known it all!' 'Known what?' asked the other. @@'Speak!' 'The boy grew so like his mother,' said the woman, rambling on, and not heeding the ques@tion, 'that I could never forget it when I saw his face. Poor girl! poor girl! She was so young, too@! Such a gentle lamb! Wait there's more to tell. I have not told you all, have I?' 'No, no,' replied the matron, inclining her head to catch the words, as they came more faintly from the dying woman. 'Be quick, or it may be too late!' 'The mother,' said the woman, making a more violent effort than before 'the mother, when the pains of death first came upon her, whis@pered in my ear that if her baby was born alive, and thrived, the day might come when it would not feel so much disgraced to hear its poor young mother named. And oh,  said, folding her thin hands together, whether it be boy or girl, raise up some friends for it in this troubled world, and take pity upon a lonel@y de@solate child, aba@ndoned to its mercy! ' 'The boy's name?' demanded the matron. 'They _called_ him Oliver,' replied the woman, feebly. 'The gold I stole was--' 'Yes, yes--what?' cried the other. She was bending eagerly over the woman to@@@@ hear her reply@ but drew back, instinctively, as she once again rose, slowly and stiffly, into a sitting posture then, clutching the coverlid with both hands, muttered some indistinct sounds in her throat, and fell lifeless on the bed. bed. 'Stone dead!' said one of the old women, hurrying in as soon as the door was opened. 'And nothing to tell, after all,' rejoined the matron, walking carelessly away. The two crones@@@@@, to all appearance, too busily occupied in the preparations for their dreadful duties to make any reply, @@@@were left alone, hovering about the body.  these things were passing in the country workhouse, Mr. Fagin sat in the old den--the same from which Oliver had been re@moved by the girl--brooding over a dull, smoky fire. He held a pair of bellows upon his knee, with which he had apparently been endeavour@ing to rouse it into more cheerful action but he had fallen into deep thought@ and with his arms folded @@on them, and his chin resting on his thumbs, fixed his eyes, abstractedly, on the rusty bars. At a table behind him sat the Artful Dodger, Master Charles Bates, and Mr. Chitling@ all intent upon a game of whist the Artful taking dummy against Master Bates and Mr. Chitling. The countenance of the first-named gentleman, peculiarly intelligent at all times, acquired great additional interest from his close observance of the game, and his attentive perusal of Mr. Chit@ling's hand@ upon which, from time to time, as occasion served, he bestowed a variety of ear@nest glances@ wisely regulating his own play by the result of his observations upon his neigh@bour's cards. It being a cold night, the Dodger wore his hat, as, indeed, was often his custom within doors. He also sustained a clay pipe between his teeth, which he only removed for a brief space when he deemed it necessary to apply for refreshment to a quart pot upon the table, which stood ready filled with gin-and-water for the accommodation of the company. Master Bates was also attentive to the play but being of a more excitable nature than his accomplished friend, it was observable that he more frequently applied himself to the gin-and-water, and moreover indulged in many jests and irrelevant remarks, all highly unbecoming a scientific rubber. Indeed, the Artful, presuming upon their close attachment, more than once took occasion to reason gravely with his com@panion upon these improprieties all of which remonstrances, Master Bates received in extremely good part@ merely requesting his friend to be 'blowed,' or to insert his head in a sack, or re@plying with some other neatly-turned witticism of a similar kind, the happy application of which, excited considerable admiration in the mind of Mr. Chitling. It was remarkable that the latter gentleman and his partner invariably lost@ and that the circumstance, so far from angering Master Bates, appeared to afford him the highest amusement, inasmuch as he laughed most uproariously at the end of every deal, and protested that he had never seen such a jolly game in all his born days. 'That's two doubles and the rub,' said Mr. Chitling, with a very long face, as he drew half@-a-crown from his waistcoat-pocket. 'I never see such a feller as you, Jack you win every@thing. Even when we've good cards, Charley and I can't make nothing of 'em.' Either the master or the manner of this remark, which was made very ruefully, delighted Charley Bates so much, that his consequent shout of laughter roused the Jew from his reverie, and induced him to inquire what was the matter. 'Matter, Fagin!' cried Charley. 'I wish you had watched the play. Tommy Chitling hasn't won @@a point@ and I went partners with him against the Artfull and dumb.' 'Ay, ay!' said the Jew, with a grin, which sufficiently demonstrated that he was at no loss to understand the reason. 'Try 'em again, Tom try 'em again.' 'No more of it for me, thank 'ee, Fagin,' re@plied Mr. Chitling 'I've had enough. That 'ere Dodger has such a run of luck that there's no standing again' him.' 'Ha!@@ ha! my dear,' replied the Jew, 'you must get up very early in the morning, to win against the Dodger.' 'Morning!' said Charley Bates 'you must put your boots on over-night, and have a tele@scope at each eye, and a opera-glass between your shoulders, if you want to come over him.' Mr. Dawkins received these handsome com@pliments with much philosophy, and offered to cut any gentleman in company, for the first picture-card, at a shilling at a time. Nobody ac@cepting the challenge, and his pipe being by this time smoked out, he proceeded to amuse himself by sketching a ground-plan of Newgate on the table with the piece of chalk which had served him in lieu of counters whistling, mean@time, with peculiar shrillness. 'How precious dull you are, Tommy!' said the Dodger, stopping short when there had been a long silence@ and addressing Mr. Chitling. 'What do you think he's thinking of, Fagin?' 'How should I know, my dear?' replied the Jew, looking round as he plied the bellows. 'About his losses, maybe or the little retire@ment in the country that he's just left, eh@? Ha! ha! Is that it, my dear?' 'Not a bit of it,' replied the Dodger, stop@ping the subject of discourse as Mr. Chitling was about to reply. 'What do _you_ say, Charley?' '_I_ should say,' replied Master Bates, with a grin, 'that he was uncommon sweet upon Betsy. See how he's a-blushing! Oh, my eye! here's a merry-go-rounder! Tommy Chit@@@@@ling's in love@! Oh, Fagin, Fagin! what a spree!' Thoroughly overpowered with the notion of Mr. Chitling being the victim of the tender passion, Master Bates threw himself back in his chair with such violence, that he lost his balance, and pitched over upon the floor@ where the accident abating nothing of his merriment he lay at full length unti@l his laugh was over, when he resumed his former position, and began another laugh. 'Never mind him, my dear,' said the Jew, winking at Mr. Dawkins, and giving Master Bates a reproving tap with the nozzle of the bellows. 'Betsy's a fine girl. Stick up to her, Tom. Stick up to her.' 'What I mean to say, Fagin,' replied Mr. Chitling, very red in the face, 'is, that that isn't anything to anybody here.' 'No more it is,' replied the Jew 'Charley will talk. Don't mind him, my dear don't mind him. Betsy's a fine girl. Do as she bids you, Tom, and you will make your fortune.' 'So I _do_ do as she bids me,' replied Mr. Chitling 'I shouldn't have been milled, if it hadn't been for her advice. But it turned out a good job for you@ didn't it, Fagin! And what's six weeks of it? It must come, some time or another, and why not in the winter time when you don't want to go out a-walking so much eh, Fagin?' 'Ah, to be sure, my dear,' replied the Jew. 'You wouldn't mind it again, Tom, would you,' asked the Dodger, winking upon Charley and the Jew, 'if Bet was all right?' 'I mean to say that I shouldn't,' replied Tom, angrily. 'There, now@. Ah! Who'll say as much as that, I should like to know eh, Fagin?' 'Nobody, my dear,' replied the Jew 'not a soul, Tom. I don't know one of 'em that would do it besides you not one of 'em, my dear.' 'I might have got clear off, if I'd split upon her mightn't I, Fagin?' angrily pursued the poor half-witted dupe. 'A word from me would have done it wouldn't it, Fagin?' 'To be sure it would, my dear,' replied the Jew. 'But I didn't blab it@ did I, Fagin?' de@manded Tom, pouring question upon question with great volubility. 'No, no, to be sure,' replied the Jew 'you were too stout-hearted for that. A deal too stout, my dear!' 'Perhaps I was,' rejoined Tom, looking round 'and if I was, what's to laugh at, in that eh, Fagin?' The Jew, perceiving that Mr. Chitling was considerably roused, hastened to assure him that nobody was laughing@ and@ to prove the gravity of the company, appealed to Master Bates, the principal offender. But, unfortunately, Charley, in opening his mouth to reply that he was never more serious in his life, was unable to prevent the escape of such a violent roar, that the abused Mr. Chitling, without any pre@liminary ceremonies, rushed across the room@ and aimed a blow at the offende@r who, being skilful in evading pursuit, ducked to avoid it, and chose his time so well that it lighted on the chest of the merry old gentleman, and caused him to stagger to the wall, where he stood panting for breath, while Mr. Chitling looked on in intense dismay. 'Hark!' cried the Dodger at this moment, 'I heard the tinkler.' Catching up the light, he crept softly up@stairs. The bell was rung again, with some impatience, while the party were in darkness. After a short pause, the Dodger reappeared, and whis@pered Fagin mysteriously. 'What!' cried the Jew, 'alone?' The Dodger nodded in the affirmative, and, shading the flame of the candle with his hand, gave Charley Bates a private intimation, in dumb show, that he had better not be funny just then. Having performed this friendly office, he fixed his eyes on the Jew's face, and awaited his directions. The old man bit his yellow fingers, and me@ditated for some seconds his face working with agitation the while, as if he dreaded something, and feared to know the worst. At length he raised his head. 'Where is he?' he asked. The Dodger pointed to the floor above, and made a gesture, as if to leave the room. 'Yes,' said the Jew, answering the mute inquiry 'bring him down. Hush@! Quiet, Charley@! Gently, Tom! Scarce, scarce!' This brief direction to Charley Bates, and his recent  was softly and im@mediately obeyed. There was no sound of their whereabout, when the Dodger descended the stairs, bearing the light in his hand, and followed by a man in a coarse smock-frock@ who, after casting a hurried glance round the room, pulled off a large wrapper which had concealed the lower portion of his face, and dis@closed all haggard, unwashed, and unsh@orn@ the features of flash Toby Crackit. 'How are you, Faguey?' said this worthy, nodding to the Jew. 'Pop that shawl away in my castor, Dodger, so that I may know where to find it when I cut that's the time of day! You'll be a fine young cracksman afore the old file now.' With these words he pulled up the smock-frock@ and, winding it round his middle, drew a chair to the fire, and placed his feet upon the hob. 'See there, Faguey,' he said, pointing dis@consolately to his top boots 'not a drop of Day and Martin since you know when not a bubble of blacking, by Jove! But don't look at me in that way, man. All in good time. I can't talk about business till I've eat and drank@ so produce the sustainance, and let's have a quiet fill-out for the first time these three days!' The Jew motioned to the Dodger to place what eatables there were, upon the table and, seating himself opposite the housebreaker, waited his leisure. To judge from appearances, Toby was by no means in a hurry to open the conversation. At first, the Jew contented himself with pa@tiently watching his countenance, as if to gain from its expression some clue to the intelli@gence he brought but in vain. He looked tired and worn, but there was the same com@placent repose upon his features that they always wore@ and through dirt, and beard, and whisker, there still shone, unimpaired, the self-satisfied smirk of flash Toby Crackit. Then the Jew, in an agony of impatience, watched every morsel he put into his mouth@ pacing up and down the room, meanwhile, in irrepressible excitement. It was all of no use. Toby con@tinued to eat with the utmost outward indiffer@ence, until he could eat no more @@@@then, ordering the Dodger out, he closed the door, mixed a glass of spirits and water, and composed him@self for talking. 'First and foremost, Faguey,' said Toby. 'Yes, yes!' interposed the Jew, drawing up his chair. Mr. Crackit stopped to take a draught of spi@rits and water, and to declare that the gin was excellentlent then@ placing his feet against the low mantelpiece, so as to bring his boots to about the level of his eye, he quietly resumed. 'First and foremost, Faguey,' said the house@breaker, 'how's Bill?' 'What!' screamed the Jew, starting from his seat. 'Why, you don't mean to say--' began Toby, turning pale. 'Mean!' cried the Jew, stamping furiously on the ground. 'Where are they? Sikes and the boy! Where are they@? Where have they been@? Where are they hiding@? Why have they not been here?' 'The crack failed,' said Toby@ faintly. know it,' replied the Jew, tearing a news@paper from his pocket@ and pointing to it. 'What more?' 'They fired and hit the boy. We cut over the fields at the back, with him between us--straight as the crow flies--through hedge and ditch. They gave chase. Damme! the whole country was awake, and the dogs upon us.' 'The  had him on his back, and scudded like the wind. We stopped to take him@@@@@@ between us his head hung down, and he was cold. They were close upon our heels every man for himself, and each from the gallows! We parted company, and left the youngster lying in a ditch. Alive or dead, that's all I know about him.' The Jew stopped to hear no more but uttering a loud yell, and twining his hands in his hair, rushed from the room, and from the house. Chapter  old man had gained the street corner, before he began to recover the effect of Toby Crackit's intelligence. He had relaxed nothing of his unusual speed@ but was still pressing on@ward, in the same wild and disordered manner, when the sudden dashing past of a carriage@ and a boisterous cry from the foot passengers, who saw his danger@ drove him back upon the pave@ment. Avoiding, as much as was possible, all the main streets, and skulking only through the by-ways and alleys, he at length emerged on Snow Hill. Here he walked even faster than before nor did he linger until he had again turned into a court@ when, as if conscious that he was now in his proper element, he fell into his usual shuffling pace, and seemed to breathe more freely. Near to the spot on which Snow Hill and Holborn Hill meet, @@@@@@opens, upon the right hand as you come out of the City, a narrow and dismal alley, leading to Saffron Hill. In its filthy shops are exposed for sale huge bunches of second-hand silk handkerchiefs, of all sizes and patterns@ for here reside the traders who purchase them from pick-pockets. Hundreds of these handkerchiefs hang dangling from pegs outside the windows@ or flaunting from the door-posts and the shelves, within, are piled with them. Confined as the limits of Field Lane are, it has its barber, its coffee-shop, its beer-shop, and its fried-fish warehouse. It is a commercial colony of itself@ the emporium of petty larceny@ visited at early morning, and set@ting-in of dusk, by silent merchants, who traffic in dark back-parlours, and who go as strangely as they come. Here, the clothesman, the shoe-vamper, and the rag-merchant, display their goods, as sign-boards to the petty thief here, stores of old iron and bones, and heaps of mil@dewy fragments of woollen-stuff and linen, rust and rot in the grimy cellars. It was into this place that the Jew turned. He was well known to the sallow denizens of the lane@ for such of them as were on the look-out to buy or sell, nodded, familiarly, as he passed along. He replied to their salutations in the same way@ but bestowed no closer recognition until he reached the further end of the alley@ when he stopped, to address a salesman of small stature, who had squeezed as much of his per@son into a child's chair as the chair would hold, and was smoking a pipe at his warehouse door. 'Why, the sight of you, Mr. Fagin, would cure the hoptalmy!' said this respectable trader, in acknowledgment of the Jew's inquiry after his health. 'The neighbourhood was a little too hot, Lively,' said Fagin, elevating his eyebrows, and crossing his hands upon his shoulders. 'Well, I've heerd that complaint of it, once or twice before,' replied the trader 'but it soon cools down again don't you find it so?' Fagin nodded in the affirmative@@@@. Pointing in the direction of Saffron Hill, he inquired whe@ther any one was up yonder to-night. 'At the Cripples?' inquired the man. The Jew nodded. 'Let me see,' pursued the merchant, re@flecting. 'Yes, there's some half-dozen of 'em gone in, that I knows. I don't think your friend's there.' 'Sikes is not, I suppose?' inquired the Jew, with a disappointed countenance. '_Non istwentus_, as the lawyers say,' replied the little man, shaking his head, and looking amazingly sly. 'Have you got anything in my line to-night?' 'Nothing to-night,' said the Jew, turning away. 'Are you going up to the Cripples, Fagin?' cried the little man, calling after him. 'Stop! I don't mind if I have a drop there with you!' But as the Jew, looking back, waved his hand to intimate that he preferred being alone and, moreover, as the little man could not very easily disengage himself from the chair@ the sign of the Cripples was, for a time, bereft of the advan@tage of Mr. Lively's presence. By the time he had got upon his legs, the Jew had disappeared so Mr. Lively, after ineffectually standing on tiptoe, in the hope of catching sight of him, again forced himself into the little chair, and, exchanging a shake of the head with a lady in the opposite shop, in which doubt and mistrust were plainly mingled, resumed his pipe with a grave demeanour. The Three Cripples, or rather the Cripples@ which was the sign by which the establishment was familiarly known to its patrons@ was the @@@@@public-house in which Mr. Sikes and his dog have already figured. Merely making a sign to a man at the bar, Fagin walked straight up@stairs, and opening the door of a room, and softly insinuating himself into the chamber, looked anxiously about@ shading his eyes with his hand, as if in search of some particular person. The room was illuminated by two gas-lights@ the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters, and closely-drawn curtains of faded red, from being visible outside. The ceiling was blackened, to prevent its colour from being injured by the flaring of the lamps and the place was so full of dense tobacco smoke, that at first it was scarcely possible to discern anything mor@@@e@. By degrees, however, as some of it cleared away through the open door, an assem@blage of heads, as confused as the noises that greeted the ear, might be made out and as the eye grew more accustomed to the scene, the spectator gradually became aware of the pre@sence of a numerous company, male and female, crowded round a long table@ at the upper end of which, sat a chairman with a hammer of office in his hand@ while a professional gentleman@ with a bluish nose, and his face tied up for the benefit of a toothache, presided at a jingling piano in a remote corner. As Fagin stepped softly in, the professional gentleman, running over the keys by way of prelude, occasioned a general cry of order for a song which having subsided, a young lady proceeded to entertain the company with a ballad in four verses, between each of which the accompanyist played the melody all through, as loud as he could. When this was over, the chairman gave a sentiment, after which, the professional gentleman on the chairman's right and left volunteered a duet, and sang it, with great applause. It was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group. There was the chairman himself, the landlord of the house, a coarse, rough, heavy built fellow, who, while the songs were proceeding, rolled his eyes hither and@ thither, and, seeming to give himself up to joviality, had an eye for every@thing that was done, and an ear for everything that was said--and sharp ones, too. Near him were the singers@ receiving, with professional in@difference, the compliments of the company, and applying themselves, in turn, to a  glasses of spirits and water, tendered by their more boisterous admirers@ whose coun@tenances, expressive of almost every vice in almost every grade, irresistibly attracted the attention, by their very repulsiveness. Cun@ning, ferocity, and drunke@ness in all its stages, were there, in their strongest aspect@ and women some with the last lingering@ tinge of their early freshness almost fading as you looked@ @@@@others with every mark and stamp of their sex utterly beaten out, and presenting but one loathsome blank of profligacy and crime some mere girls, others but young women, and none past the prime of life formed the darkest and saddest portion of this dreary picture. Fagin, troubled by no grave emotions, looked eagerly from face to face while these proceed@ings were in progress@ but@ apparently@ without meeting that of which he was in search. Suc@ceeding, at length, in catching the eye of the man who occupied the chair, he beckoned to him slightly, and left the room, as quietly as he had entered it. 'What can I do for you, Mr. Fagin?' inquired the man, as he followed him out to the landing. 'Won't you join us? They'll be delighted, every one of 'em.' The Jew shook his head impatiently, and said in a whisper, 'Is  'No,' replied the man. 'And no news of Barney?' inquired Fagin. 'None,' replied the landlord of the Cripples for it was he. 'He won't stir till it's all safe. Depend on i@@t@@, they're on the scent down there@ and that if he moved, he'd blow upon the thing at once. He's all right enough, Barney is, else I should have heard of him.  that Barney's managing properly. Let him alone for that.' 'Will _he_ be here to-night?' asked the Jew, laying the same emphasis on the pronoun as before. 'Monks, do you mean?' inquired the land@lord, hesitating. 'Hush!' said the Jew. 'Yes.' 'Certain,' replied the man, drawing a gold watch from his fob 'I expected him here@@@ before now. If you'll wait ten minutes, he'll be--' 'No, no,' said the Jew, hastily@ as though, however desirous he might be to see the person in question, he was nevertheless relieved by his absence. 'Tell him I came here to see him@ and that he must come to me to-night. No, say to-morrow. As he is not here, to-morrow will be time enough.' 'Good!' said the man. 'Nothing more?' 'Not a word now,' said the Jew, descending the stairs. 'I say,' said the other, looking over the rails, and speaking in a hoarse whisper 'what a time this would be for a sell! I've got Phil Barker here@ so drunk, that a boy might take him!' 'Ah! But it's not Phil Barker's time,' said the Jew, looking up. 'Phil has something more to do, before we can afford to part with him so go back to the company, my dear, and tell them to lead merry lives--_while they last_. Ha! ha! ha!' The landlord reciprocated the old man's laugh@ and returned @to his guests. The Jew was no sooner alone, than his countenance re@sumed its former expression of anxiety and thought. After a brief reflection, he called a hack-cabriolet, and bade the man drive towards Bethnal Green. He dismissed him within some quarter of a mile of Mr. Sikes's residence, and performed the short remainder of the distance, on foot. 'Now,' muttered the Jew, as he knocked at the door, 'if there is any deep play here, I shall have it out of you, my girl, cunning as you are.' She was in her room, the woman said@@. Fagin crept softly up@stairs, and entered it without any previous ceremony. The girl was alone@ lying with her head upon the table, and her hair straggling over it. 'She has been drinking,' thought the Jew, coo@ly, 'or perhaps she is only miserable.' The old man turned to close the door, as he made this reflectio@@@@n@ the noise thus occa@sioned, roused the girl. She eyed his crafty @@face narrowly, as she inquired  to his recital of  story. When it was concluded, she sank into her former attitude, but spoke not a word. She pushed the candle impatiently away@ and once or twice@ as she feverishly changed her position, shuffled her feet upon the ground but this was all. During th@e silence, the Jew looked restlessly about the room, as if to assure himself that there were no appearances of Sikes having covertly returned. Apparently satisfied with his inspection, he coughed twice or thrice, and made as many efforts to open a conversation but the girl heeded him no more than if he had been made of stone. At length he made an@other attempt@ and@ rubbing his hands together, said, in his most conciliatory tone, 'And where should you think Bill was now, my dear@@@?' The girl moaned out some @ha@@@lf intelli@gible reply, that she could not tell@ and seemed, from the @@@@@smothered noise that escaped her, to be crying. 'And the boy, too,' said the Jew, straining his eyes to catch a glimpse of her face. 'Poor leetle child! Left in a ditch, Nance only think!' 'The child,' said the girl, suddenly looking up, 'is better where he is, than among us and if no harm comes to Bill from it, I hope he lies dead in the ditch@ and that his young bones may rot there.' 'What!' cried the Jew, in amazement. 'Ay, I do,' returned the girl, meeting his gaze. 'I shall be glad to have him away from my eyes, and to know that the worst is over. I can't bear to have him about me. The sight of him turns me against myself, and all of you.' 'Pooh!' said the Jew, scornfully. 'You're  cried the girl@ bitterly. 'It's no fault of yours, if I am not! You'd never have me anything else, if you had your will, except now --the humour doesn't suit you, doesn't it?' 'No!' rejoined the Jew, furiously. 'It does not.' 'Change it, then!' responded the girl, with a laugh. 'Change it!' exclaimed the Jew, exaspe@rated beyond all bounds by his companion's unexpected obstinacy, and the vexation of the night, 'I _will_ change it! Listen to me, you drab. Listen to me, who with six words, can strangle Sikes as surely as if I had his bull's throat between my fingers now. If he comes back, and leaves th@e boy behind him@ if he gets off free, and@ dead or alive, fails to restore him to me@ murder him yourself if you would have him escape Jack Ketch. And do it the mo@ment he sets foot in this room, or@ mind me, it will be too late!' 'What is all this?' cried the girl@ involun@tarily. 'What is it?' pursued Fagin, mad with rage.@@@@@ 'When the boy's worth hundreds of pounds to me, am I to lose what chance threw me in the way of getting safely, through the whims of a drunken gang that I could whistle away the lives of! And me bound, too, to a born devil that only wants the will, and has @@t@@he power to, to--' Panting for breath, the old man stammered for a word@ and in that @@@@instant checked the torrent of his wrath, and changed his whole demeanour. A moment before, his clenched hands had grasped the air@ his eyes had dilated@ and his face grown livid with passion but now, he shrunk into a chair, and, cowering together, trembled with the apprehension of having him@self disclosed some hidden villainy. After a short silence, he ventured to look round at his companion. @He appeared somewhat reassured, on beholding her in the same listless attitude from which he had first roused her. 'Nancy, dear!' croaked the Jew, in his usual voice. 'Did you mind me, dear?' 'Don't worry me@ now, Fagin!' replied the girl, raising her head languidly. 'If Bill has not done it this time, he will another. He has done many a good job for you, and will do many more when he can and when he can't@ he won't so no more about that.' 'Regarding this boy, my dear?' said the@@@@@ Jew, rubbing the palms of his hands nervously together. 'The boy must take his chance with the rest,' interrupted Nancy, hastily 'and I say again, I hope he is dead, and out of harm's way, and out of yours,--that is, if Bill comes to no harm. And if Toby got clear off, Bill's pretty sure to be  worth two of Toby any time.' 'And about what I was saying, my dear?' observed the Jew, keeping his glistening eye steadily upon her. 'Your must say it all over again, if it's any@thing you want me to do,' rejoined Nancy 'and if it is, you had better wait till to-mor@row. You put me up for a minute@ but now I'm stupid again.' Fagin put several other questions@ all with the same drift of ascertaining whether the girl had profited by his unguarded hints but, she answered them so readily, and was withal so utterly unmoved by his searching looks, that his original impression of her being more than a trifle in liquor, was@@@@@ confirmed. Nancy, indeed, was not exempt from a failing which was very common among the Jew's female pupils@ and in which, in their tenderer years, they were rather encouraged than checked. Her disordered appearance, and a wholesale perfume of Geneva which pervaded the apart@ment, afforded strong confirmatory evidence of the justice of the Jew's supposition and when, after indulging in the temporary display of vio@lence above described, she subsided, first into dullness, and afterwards into a compound of feelings@ under the influence of which she shed tears one minute, and in the next gave utter@ance to various exclamations of 'Never say die!' and divers calculations as to what might be the amount of the odds so long as a lady or gentleman w@as happy, Mr. Fagin, who had had considerable experience of such matters in his time, saw, with great satisfaction, that she was very far gone indeed. Having eased his mind by this discovery and having accomplished his twofold object of imparting to the girl what he had, that night, heard, and of ascertaining, with his own eyes, that Sikes had not returned, Mr. Fagin again turned his face homeward@ leaving his young friend asleep, with her head upon the table. It was within an hour of midnight@@@@. The weather being dark, and piercing cold, he had no great temptation to loiter. The sharp wind that scoured the streets, seemed to have cleared them of passengers, as of dust and mud, for few people were abroad, and they were to all ap@pearance hastening fast home. It blew from the right quarter for the Jew, however, and straight before it he went@ trembling, and shiver@ing, as every fresh gust drove him rudely on his way. He had reached the corner of his own street, and was already fumbling in his pocket for the door-key, when a dark figure emerged from a projecting entrance which lay in deep shadow, and, crossing the road, glided up to him unper@ceived. 'Fagin!' whispered a voice close to his ear. 'Ah!' said the Jew, turning quickly round, 'is that--' 'Yes!' interrupted the  been lingering here these two hours. Where the devil have you been?' 'On your business, my dear,' replied the Jew, glancing uneasily at his companion, and slackening his pace as he spoke. 'On your business all night.' 'Oh, of course!' said the stranger, with a sneer. 'Well and what's come of it?' 'Nothing good,' said the Jew. 'Nothing bad, I hope?' said the stranger, stopping short, and turning a startled look @@on his companion. The Jew shook his head, and was about to reply, when the stranger, interrupting him, mo@tioned to the house, before which they had by this time arrive@@@@@d remarking, that he had better say what he had got to say, under cover@ for his blood was chilled with standing about so long, and the wind blew through him. Fagin looked as if he could have willingly excused himself from taking home a visitor at that unseasonable hour  muttered something about having no fire but his companion re@peating his request in a peremptory manner, he unlocked the door, and requested him to close it softly, while he got a light. 'It's as dark as the grave,' said the man, groping forward a few steps. 'Make  the door,' whispered Fagin from the end of the passage. As he spoke, it closed with a loud noise. 'That wasn't my doing,' said the other man, feeling his way. 'The wind blew it to, or it shut of its own accord one or the other. Look sharp with the light, or I shall knock my brains out against something in this confounded hole.' Fagin stealthily descended the kitchen stairs@@@@@. After a short absence, he returned with a lighted candle, and the intelligence that Toby Crackit was asleep in the back room below, and that  were in the front one. Beckoning the @the@ man to follow him, he led the way up@stairs. 'We can say the few words we've got to say in here, my dear,' said the Jew, throwing open a door on the first floor 'and as there are holes in the shutters, and we never show lights to our neighbours, we'll set the candle on the stairs. There!' With those words, the Jew, stooping down, placed the candle on an upper flight of stairs, exactly opposite to the room  led the way into the apartment@ which was destitute of all mov@ables save a broken arm-chair, and an old couch or sofa without covering, which stood behind the door. Upon this piece of furniture, the stranger @@sat himself with the air of a weary man@ and the Jew, drawing up the arm-chair opposite, they sat face to face. It was not quite dark@ @@@@the door was partially open@ and the candle outside, threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall. They conversed for some time in whispers@. Though nothing of the conversation was dis@tinguishable beyond a few disjointed words here@ and there, a listener might easily have per@ceived that Fagin appeared to be defending himself against some remarks of the stranger@ and that the latter was in a state of considerable irritation. They might have been talking, thus, for a quarter of an hour or more, when Monks--by which name the Jew had designated the strange man several times in the course of their colloquy--said, raising his voice a little, 'I tell you again, it was badly planned. Why not have kept him here among the rest, and made a sneaking, snivelling pickpocket of him at once?' 'Only hear him!' exclaimed the Jew, shrugging his sho@ulders. 'Why, do you mean to say you couldn't have done it, if you had chosen?' demanded Monks, sternly. 'Haven't you done it, with other boys, scores of times@? If you had had patience for a twelvemonth, at most, couldn't you have got him convicted, and sent safely out of the kingdom@ perhaps for life?' 'Whose turn would that have served, my dear?' inquired the Jew@ humbly. 'Mine,' replied Monks. 'But not mine,' said the Jew, submissively. 'He might have become of use to me. When there are two parties to a bargain, it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted is it, my good friend?' 'What then?' demanded  it was not easy to train him to the business,' replied the Jew 'he was not like other boys in the same circumstances.' 'Curse him, no!' muttered the man, 'or he would have been a thief, long ago.' 'I had no hold upon him to make him worse,' pursued the Jew, anxiously watching the countenance of his companion. 'His hand was not in. I had nothing to frighten him with@ which we always must have in the be@ginning, or we labour in vain. What could I do@? Send him out with the Dodger and Char@ley@? We had enough of that, at first, my dear I trembled for us all.' '_That_ was not my doing,' observed Monks. 'No, no, my dear!' renewed the Jew. 'And I don't quarrel with it now@ because, if it had never happened, you might never have clapped eyes @@on the boy to notice him, and so led to the discovery that it was him you were looking for. Well! I got him back for you by means of the girl@ and then _she_ begins to favour him.' 'Throttle the girl!' said Monks, impa@tiently. 'Why, we can't afford to do that just now, my dear,' replied the Jew, smiling 'and, be@sides, that sort of thing is not in our way@ or, one of these days, I might be glad to have it done. I know what these girls are, Monks, well. As soon as the boy begins to harden, she'll care no more for him, than for a block of wood. You want him made a thief. If he is alive, I can make him one from this time and, if--if--' said the Jew, drawing nearer to the other,--'it's not likely, mind,--but if the worst comes to the worst, and he is dead--' 'It's no fault of mine if he is!' interposed the other man, with a look of terror, and clasp@ing the Jew's arm with trembling hands. 'Mind that. Fagin! I had no hand in it. Anything but his death, I told you from the first. I won't shed blood it's always found out, and haunts a man besides. If they shot him dead, I was not the cause do you hear me@? Fire this infernal den@! What's that?' 'What!' cried the Jew, grasping the coward round the body, with both arms, as he sprung to his feet. 'Where?' 'Yonder! replied the man, glaring at the opposite wall. 'The shadow! I saw the sha@dow of a woman, in a cloak and bonnet, pass along the wainscot like a breath!' The Jew released his hold, and they rushed tumultuously from the room. The candle, wasted by the draught, was standing where it had been placed. @It showed them only the empty staircase, and their own white faces. They list@ened intently@@@@@ a profound silence reigned throughout the house. 'It's your fancy,' said the Jew, taking up the light@ and turning to his companion. 'I'll swear I saw it!' replied Monks,  was bending forward when I saw it first@ and when I spoke, it darted away.' The Jew glanced contemptuously at the pale face of his associate, and, telling him he could follow, if he pleased, ascended the stairs. They looked into all the rooms they were cold, bare, and empty. They descended into the pas@sage, and thence into the cellars below. The green damp hung upon the low walls@@@@@ the tracks of the snail and slug glistened in the  all was still as death. 'What do you think now?' said the Jew, when they had regained the passage. 'Besides ourselves, there's not a creature in the house except Toby and the boys@ and they're safe enough. See here!' As a proof of the fact, the Jew drew forth two keys from his pocket and explained, that when he first went down@stairs, he had locked them in, to prevent any intrusion on the con@ference. This accumulated testimony effectually stag@gered Mr. Monks. His protestations had gradually become less and less vehement as they proceeded in their search without making any discovery and, now, he gave vent to several very grim laughs, and confessed it could only have been his excited imagination. He declined any renewal of the conversation, however, for that night@ suddenly remembering that it was past one o'clock. And so the amiable couple parted. Chapter  it would be, by no means, seemly in a@ humble author to keep so mighty a person@age as a beadle waiting, with his back to the fire, and the skirts of his coat gathered up under his arms, until such time as it might suit his pleasure to relieve him and as it would still less become his station, or his gallantry@ to involve in the same neglect a lady on whom that beadle had looked with an eye of tender@ness and affection, and in whose ear he had whispered sweet words, which, coming from such a quarter, might well thrill the bosom of maid or matron of whatsoever degree  whose pen traces these words--trusting that he knows his place, and that he entertains a becoming reverence for those upon earth to whom high and important authority is dele@gated--hastens to pay them that respect which their position demands, and to treat them with all that duteous ceremony which their exalted rank, and by consequence great virtues, imperatively claim at his hands. Towards this end, indeed, he had purposed to introduce, in this place, a dis@sertation touching the divine right of beadles, and elucidative of the position, that a beadle can do no wrong@ which could not fail to have been both pleasurable and profitable to the right-minded reader@ but which he is unfortunately compelled, by want of time and space, to post@pone to some more convenient and fitting op@portunity on the arrival of which, he will be prepared to show, that a beadle properly consti@tuted@ that is to say, a parochial beadle, at@tached to a parochail workhouse, and attending in his official capacity the parochial church@ is, in right and virtue of his office, possessed of all the excellences and best qualities of hu@manity and that to none of those excellences, can mere companies' beadles, or court-of-law beadles, or even chapel-of-ease beadles save the last, and they in a very lowly and inferior de@gree , lay the remotest sustainable claim. Mr. Bumble had re-counted the tea@spoons, re-weighed the sugar-tongs, made a closer in@spection of the milk-pot, and ascertained to a nicety the exact condition of the furniture, down to the very horse-hair seats of the chairs and had repeated each process full half a dozen times@ before he began to think that it was time for Mrs. Corney to return. Thinking be@gets thinkingkin@g as there were no sounds of Mrs. Corney's approach, it occur@ed to Mr. Bumble that it would be an innocent and vir@tuous way of spending the time, if he were fur@ther to allay his curiousity by a cursory glance at the interior of Mrs. Corney's chest of drawers. Having listened at the keyhole, to assure him@self that nobody was approaching the chamber, Mr. Bumble, beginning at the bottom, pro@ceeded to make himself acquainted with the contents of the three long drawers@ which, being filled with various garments of good fashion and texture, carefully preserved between two layers of old newspapers, speckled with dried lavender@ seemed to yield him exceeding satis@faction. Arriving, in course of time, at the right-hand corner drawer in which was the key , and beholding therein a small padlocked box, which, being shaken, gave forth a pleasant sound, as of the chinking of coin, Mr. Bumble returned with a stately walk to the fireplace@ and, resuming his old attitude, said, with a grave and determined air, 'I'll do it!' He followed up this remark@able declaration, by shaking his head in a waggish manner for ten minutes, as though he were re@monstrating with himself for being such a plea@sant dog@ and then, he took a view of his legs in profile, with much seeming pleasure and in@@terest. He was still placidly engaged in this latter survey, when Mrs. Corney, hurrying into the room, threw herself, in a breathless state, on a chair by the fireside, and covering her eyes with one hand, placed the other over her heart, and gasped for breath. 'Mrs. Corney,' said Mr. Bumble,  the matron, 'what is this, ma'am? Has anything happened, ma'am@? Pray answer me I'm on--on--' Mr. Bumble, in his alarm, could not immediately think of the word 'tenter@hooks,' so he said 'broken bottles.' 'Oh, Mr. Bumble!' cried the lady, 'I have been so dreadfully put out!' 'Put out, ma'am!' exclaimed Mr. Bumble 'who has dared to--? I know!' said Mr. Bumble, checking himself, with native majesty, 'this is them wicious paupers!' 'It's dreadful to think of!' said the lady, shuddering. 'Then _don't_ think of it, ma'am,' rejoined Mr. Bumble. 'I can't help it,' whimpered the lady. 'Then take something, ma'am,' said Mr. Bumble@ soothingly. 'A little of the wine?' 'Not for the world!' replied Mrs. Corney. 'I couldn't,--oh! The top shelf in the right-hand corner--oh!' Uttering these words, the good lady pointed, distractedly, to the cupboard, and underwent a convulsion from internal spasms. Mr. Bumble rushed to the closet@ and, snatching a pint green-glass bottle from the shelf@ thus incoherently indicated, filled a tea-cup with its contents, and held it to the lady's lips. 'I'm better now,' said Mrs. Corney, falling back, after drinking half of it. Mr. Bumble raised his eyes piously to the ceiling in thankfulnes@s and, bringing them down again to the brim of the cup, lifted it to his nose. 'Peppermint,' exclaimed Mrs. Corney, in a faint voice, smiling gently on the beadle as she spoke. 'Try it! There's a little--a little some@thing else in it.' Mr. Bumble tasted the medicine with a doubtful look smacked his lips@ took another taste@ and put the cup down empty. 'It@'s very comforting,' said Mrs. Corney. 'Very much so indeed, ma'am,' said the beadle. As he spoke, he drew a chair beside the matron, and tenderly inquired what had happened to distress her. @@@'Nothing,' replied Mrs. Corney. 'I am a foolish, excitable, weak creetur.' 'Not weak, ma'am,' retorted Mr. Bumble, drawing his chair a little closer. 'Are you a weak creetur, Mrs. Corney?' 'We are all weak creeturs,' said Mrs. Corney, laying down a general principle. 'So we are,' said the beadle. Nothing was said on either side, for a minute or two afterwards@@@. By the expiration of that time, Mr. Bumble had illustrated the posi@tion by removing his left arm from the back of Mrs. Corney's chair, where it had previously rested, to Mrs. Corney's apron-string, round which it gradually became entwined. 'We are all weak creeturs,' said Mr. Bum@ble. Mrs. Corney sighed. 'Don't sigh, Mrs. Corney,' said Mr. Bum@ble. 'I can't help it,' said Mrs. Corney. And she sighed again. 'This is a very comfortable room, ma'am,' said Mr. Bumble@ looking round. 'Another room, and this, ma'am, would be a complete thing.' 'It would be too much for one,' murmured the lady. 'But not for two, ma'am,' rejoined Mr. Bumble, in soft accents. 'Eh, Mrs. Corney?' Mrs. Corney drooped her head, when the beadle said this@@@@@ the beadle drooped his, to get a view of Mrs. Corney's face. Mrs. Corney, with great propriety, turned her head away, and released her hand to get at her pocket-handker@chie@f but insensibly replaced it in that of Mr. Bumble. 'The board allows you coals, don't they, Mrs. Corney?' inquired the beadle, affectionately pressing her hand. 'And candles,' replied Mrs. Corney, slightly returning the pressure. 'Coals, candles, and house-rent free,' said Mr. Bumble. 'Oh, Mrs. Corney, what an Angel you are!' The lady was not proof against this burst of feeling. She sank into Mr. Bumble's arms and that gentleman@ in his agitation, imprinted a passionate kiss upon her chaste nose. 'Such porochial perfection!' exclaimed Mr. Bumble, rapturously. 'You know that Mr. Slout is worse to-night, my fascinator?' 'Yes,' replied Mrs. Corney, bashfully. 'He can't live a week, the doctor says,' pursued@ Mr. Bumble. 'He is the master of this establishment his death will cause a wacancy that wacancy must be filled up. Oh, Mrs. Corney, what a prospect this opens@! What a opportunity for a j@ining of hearts and housekeepings!' Mrs. Corney sobbed. 'The little word?' said Mr. Bumble, bend@ing over the bashful beauty. 'The one little, little, little word, my blessed Corney?' 'Ye--ye--yes!' sighed out the matron. 'One more,' pursued the beadle 'com@pose your darling feelings for only one more. When is it to come off?' Mrs. Corney twice essayed to speak@ and twice failed. At length@ summoning up courage, she threw her arms around Mr. Bumble's neck, and said, it might be as soon as ever he pleased, and that he was @@'a irresistible duck.' Matters being thus amicably and satisfactorily arranged, the contract was solemnly ratified in another tea@cupful of the peppermint mixture@ which was rendered the more necessary, by the flutter and agitation of the lady's spirits. While it was being disposed of, she acquainted Mr. Bumble with the old woman's decease. 'Very good,' said that gentleman, sipping his peppermint 'I'll call at Sowerberry's as I go home, and tell him to send to-morrow morning. Was it that as frightened you, love?' 'It wasn't anything particular, dear,' said the lady@ evasively. @@'It must have been something, love,' urged Mr. Bumble. 'Won't you tell your own B.?' 'Not now,' rejoined the lady 'one of these days. After we're married, dear.' 'After we're married!' exclaimed Mr. Bum@ble. 'It wasn't any impudence from any of them male paupers as--' 'No, no, love!' interposed the lady, hastily. 'If I thought it was,' continued Mr. Bumble 'if I thought as any one of 'em had dared to lift his wulgar eyes to that lovely counte@nance--' 'They wouldn't have dared to do it, love,' responded the lady. 'They had better not!' said Mr. Bumble, clenching his fist. 'Let me see any man, porochial@ or extra-porochial, as would presume to do it@ and I can tell him that he wouldn't do it a second time!' Unembellished by any violence of gesticula@tion, this might have s@eemed@@@ no very high compliment to the lady's charms but, as Mr. Bumble accompanied the threat with many warlike gestures, she was much touched with this proof of his devotion, and protested, with great admiration, that he was indeed a dove. The dove then turned up his coat-collar, and put on his cocked hat@ and, having exchanged a long and affectionate embrace with his future partner, once again braved the cold wind of the night merely pausing, for a few minutes, in the male paupers' ward, to abuse them a little, with the view of satisfying himself that he could fill the office of workhouse-master with needful acerbity. Assured of his qualifications, Mr. Bumble left the building with a light heart, and bright visions of his future promotion@ which served to occupy his mind until he reached the shop of the undertaker. Now, Mr. and Mrs. Sowerberry having gone out to tea and supper@ and Noah Claypole not being at any time disposed to take upon himself a greater amount of physical exertion than is necessary to a convenient performance of the two functions of eating and drinking, the shop was not closed, although it was past the usual hour of shutting-up. Mr. Bumble tapped with his cane on the counter several times but, at@tracting no attention, and beholding a light shining through the glass-window of the little parlour@ at the back of the shop, he made bold to peep in and see what was going forward and@ when he saw what was going forward, he was not a little surprised. The cloth was laid for supper@@@@@ the table was covered with bread and butter, plates@ and g@@@@lasses@ a porter-pot@ and a wine-bottle. At the upper end of the table, Mr. Noah Claypole lolled negligently in an easy-chair, with his legs thrown over one of the arms@ an open clasp-knife in one hand, and a mass of buttered bread in the other. Close beside him stood Charlotte, open@ing oysters from a barrel@ which Mr. Claypole condescended to swallow, with remarkable avidity. A more than ordinary redness in the region of the young gentleman's nose, and a kind of fixed wink in his right eye, denoted that he was in a slight degree intoxicatedated these symptoms were confirmed by the intense relish with which he took his oysters, for which no@thing but a strong appreciation of their cooling properties, in cases of internal fever, could have sufficiently accounted. 'Here's a delicious fat one, Noah, dear!' said Charlotte 'try him, do only this one.' 'What a delicious thing is a oyster!' re@marked Mr. Claypole, after he had swallowed it. 'What a pity it is, a number of 'em should ever make you feel uncomfortable isn't it, Charlotte?' 'It's quite a cruelty,' said Charlotte. 'So it is,' acquiesced Mr. Claypole. 'An't yer fond of oysters?' 'Not overmuch,' replied Charlotte. 'I like to see you eat 'em, Noah dear, better than eat@ing @'em myself.' 'Lor!' said Noah, reflectively 'how queer!' 'Have another,' said Charlotte. 'Here's one with such a beautiful, delicate beard!' 'I can't manage any more,' said Noah. 'I'm very sorry. Come here, Charlotte, and I'll kiss yer.' 'What!' said Mr. Bumble, bursting into the room. 'Say that again, sir.' Charlotte uttered a scream, and hid her face in her apron@@@@@. Mr. Claypole, without making any further change in his position than suffering his legs to reach the ground, gazed at the beadle in drunken terror. 'Say it again, you wile, owdacious fellow!' said Mr. Bumble. 'How dare you mention such a thing, sir? And how dare you encourage him, you insolent minx? Kiss her!' ex@claimed Mr. Bumble, in strong indignation. 'Faugh!' 'I didn't mean to do it!' said Noah, blub@bering. 'She's always a-kissing of me, whether I like it, or not.' 'Oh, Noah,' cried Charlotte, reproachfully. 'Yer are@ yer know yer are!' retorted Noah. 'She's always a-doin' of it, Mr. Bumble, sir she chucks me under the chin, please, sir@ and makes all manner of love!' 'Silence!' cried Mr. Bumble, sternly. 'Take yourself down@stairs, ma'am. Noah, you shut up the shop@@@@@ say another word till your master comes home, at your peril and, when he does co@me home, tell him that Mr. Bumble said he was to send a old woman's shell after breakfast to-morrow morning. Do you hear@ sir@? Kissing!' cried Mr. Bumble, holding up his hands. 'The sin and wickedness of the lower orders in this porochial district is fright@ful! If Parliament don't take their abominable courses under consideration, this country's ruined, and the character of the peasantry gone for ever!' With these words, the beadle strode, with a lofty and gloomy air, from the under@taker's premises. And now that we have accompanied him so far on his road home, and have made all neces@sary preparations for the old woman's funeral, let us set on foot a few inquir@es after young Oliver Twist, and ascertain whether he be still lying in the ditch where Toby Crackit left him. Chapter   tear your throats!' muttered Sikes, grinding his teeth. 'I wish I was among some of you you'd howl the hoarser for it.' As Sikes growled forth this imprecation, with the most desperate ferocity that his desperate nature was capable of, he rested the body of the wounded boy across his bended knee@ and turned his head, for an instant, to look back at his pursuers. There was little to be made out, in the mist and darkness but the loud shouting of men vibrated through the air, and the barking of the neighbouring dogs, roused by the sound of the alarm bell, resounded in every direction. 'Stop, you white-livered hound!' cried the robber, shouting after Toby Crackit, who, making the best use of his long legs, was already ahead. 'Stop!' The repetition of the word, brought Toby to a dead stand-still. For he was not quite satisfied that he was beyond the range of pistol-shot@ and Sikes was in no mood to be played with. 'Bear a hand with the boy,' cried Sikes, beckoning furiously to his confederate. 'Come back!' Toby made a show of returning@ but ven@tured, in a low voice, broken for want of breath, to intimate considerable reluctance as he came slowly along. 'Quicker!' cried Sikes, laying the boy in a dry ditch at his feet, and drawing a pistol from his pocket. 'Don't play@@@@ booty with me.' At this moment the noise grew louder@@@@. Sikes, again looking round, could discern that the men who had given chase were already climbing the gate of the field in which he stood@ and that a couple of dogs were some paces in advance of them. 'It's all up, Bill!' cried Toby 'drop the kid, and show 'em your heels.' With this part@ing advice, Mr. Crackit, preferring the chance of being shot by his friend, to the certainty of being taken by his enemies, fairly turned tail, and darted off at full speed. Sikes clenched his teeth@ took one look around@ threw over the prostrate form of Oliver, the cape in which he had been hurriedly muffled@ ran along the front of the hedge, as if to distract the attention of those behind, from the spot where the boy lay@ paused, for a second, before another hedge which met it at right angles@ and whirling his pistol high into the air, cleared it at a bound, and was gone. 'Ho, ho, there!' cried a tremulous voice in the rear. 'Pincher! Neptune! Come here, come here!' The dogs, wh@@o, in common with their mas@ters, seemed to have no particular relish for the sport in which they were engaged, readily an@swered to th@e  Three men, who had by this time advanced some distance into the field, stopped to take counsel together. 'My advice, or, leastways, I should say, my _orders_, is,' said the fattest man of the party, 'that we 'mediately go home again.' 'I am agreeable to anything which is agree@able to Mr. Giles,' said a shorter man@ who was by no means of a slim figure, and who was very pale in the face, and very polite@ as frightened men frequently are. 'I shouldn't wish to appear ill-mannered, gentlemen,' said the third, who had called the dogs back, 'Mr. Giles ought to know.' 'Certainly,' replied the shorter man 'and whatever Mr. Giles says, it isn't our place to contradict him. No, no, I know my sitiwation! @Thank my stars, I know my sitiwation.' To tell the truth, the little man _did_ seem to know his situation, and to know perfectly well that it was by no means a desirable one@ for his teeth chattered in his head as he spoke. 'You are afraid, Brittles,' said Mr. Giles. 'I a@n't,' said Brittles. 'You are,' said Giles. 'You're a falsehood, Mr. Giles,' said Brittles. 'You're a lie, Brittles,' said Mr. Giles. Now, these four retorts arose from Mr. Giles's taunt@ and Mr. Giles's taunt had arisen from his indignation at having the responsi@bility of going home again, imposed upon him@self under cover of a compliment. The third man brought the dispute to a close, most philo@sophically. 'I'll tell you what it is, gentlemen,' said he, 'we're all afraid.' 'Speak for yourself, sir,' said Mr. Giles, who was the palest of the party. 'So I do,' replied the man. 'It's natural and proper to be afraid, under such circum@stances. I am.' 'So am I,' said Brittles 'only there's no call to tell a man he is, so bounceably.' These frank admissions softened Mr. Giles, who at once owned that _he_ was afraid upon which, they all three faced about, and ran back again with the completest unanimity, unti@l Mr. Giles who had the shortest wind of the party, a@s was encumbered with a pitchfork most handsomely insisted @@on stopping, to make an apology for his hastiness of speech. 'But it's wonderful,' said Mr. Giles, when he had explained, 'what a man will do, when his blood is up. I should have committed mur@der--I know I should--if we'd caught one of them rascals.' As the other two were impressed with a simi@lar presentiment@ and as their blood, like his, had all gone down again@ some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in their temperament. 'I know what it was,' said Mr. Giles 'it was the gate.' 'I shouldn't wonder if it was,' exclaimed Brittles, catching at the idea. 'You may depend upon it,' said Giles, 'that that gate stopped the flow of the excitement. I felt all mine suddenly going away, as I was climbing over it.' By a remarkable coincidence, the other two had been visited with the same unpleasant sen@sation at that precise  was quite  it was the gate@ especially as there was no doubt regarding the time at which the change had taken place, because all three remembered that they had come in sight of the robbers at the @the instant of its occu@@rance. This dialogue was held between the two men who had surprised the burglars, and a travelling tinker@ who had been sleeping in an outhouse, and who had been roused, together with his two mongrel curs, to join in the pursuit. Mr. Giles acted in the double capacity of butler and stew@ard to the old lady of the mansio@@@@n@ Brittles was a lad of all-work@ who, having entered her service a mere child, was treated as a promising young boy still, though he was something past thirty. Encouraging each other with such converse as this@ but, keeping very close together, not@withstanding, and looking apprehensively round, whenever a fresh gust rattled through the boughs@ the three men hurried back to a tree, behind which they had left their lantern, lest its light should inform the thieves in what direc@tion to fire. Catching up the light, they made the best of their way home, at a good round trot and long after their dusky forms had ceased to be discernible, the light might have been seen twinkling and dancing in the distance, like some exhalation of the damp and gloomy at@mosphere through which it was swiftly borne. The air grew colder, as day came slowly on@ and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke. The grass was wet@ the pathways, and low places, were all mire and water@@@@@ the damp breath of an unwholesome wind went languidly by, with a hollow moaning. Still, Oliver lay motionless and insensible on the spot where Sikes had left him. Morning drew on apace. The air become more sharp and piercing, as its first dull hue--the death of night, rather than the birth of day--glimmered faintly in the sky. The objects which had looked dim and terrible in the dark@ness, grew more and more defined, and gradually resolved into their familiar shapes. The rain came down, thick and fast, and pattered noisily among the leafless @bushes. But, Oliver felt it not, as it beat against him@ for he still lay stretched, helpless and unconscious, on his bed of clay. At length, a low cry of pain broke the still@ness that prevailed@ and uttering it, the boy awoke. His left arm, rudely bandaged in a shawl, hung heavy and useless at his side@@@@@ the bandage was saturated with blood. He was so weak, that he could scarcely raise himself into a sitting posture@@@@@ when he had done so, he looked feebly round for help, and groaned with pain. Trembling in every joint, from cold and exhaustion, he made an effort to stand upright@ but, shuddering from head to foot, fell prostrate on the ground. After a short return of the stupor in which he had been so long plunged, Oliver@ urged by a creeping sickness at his heart, which seemed to warn him that if he lay there, he must surely die@ got upon his feet, and essayed to walk. His head was dizzy, and he staggered to and fro like a drunken man. But he kept up, neverthe@less, and, with his head drooping languidly on his breast, went stumbling onward, he knew not whither. And now, hosts of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on his mind. He seemed to be still walking between Sikes and Crackit, who were angrily disputing--for the very words they said, sounded in his ears and when he caught his own attention, as it were, by making some violent effort to save himself from falling, he found that he was talking to them. Then, he was alone with Sikes, plodding on as @@on @as @on@ the previous day@ and as shadowy people passed them@@@, he felt the robber's grasp upon his wrist. Suddenly, he started back at the report of fire@arms@ @@@@there rose into the air, loud cries and shouts lights gleamed before his eyes@@@@@ all was noise and tumult, as some unseen hand bore him hur@riedly away. Through all these rapid visions, there ran an undefined, uneasy consciousness of pain, which wearied and tormented him in@cessantly. Thus he staggered on, creeping, almost me@chanically, between the bars of gates, or through hedge-gaps@ as they came in his way, until he reached a road@@@. Here the rain began to fall so heavily, that it roused him. He looked about, and saw that at no great distance there was a house, which perhaps he could reach. Pitying his condition, they might have compassion on him@ and if they did not, it would be better, he thought, to die near human beings, than in the lonely open fields. He summoned up all his strength for one last trial, and bent his faltering steps towards it. As he drew nearer to this house, a feeling come over him that he had seen it before. He remembered nothing of its details@ but the shape and aspect of the building seemed familiar to him. That garden wall! On the grass inside, he had fallen on his knees last night, and prayed the two men's mercy. It was the very@@@@@ house they had attempted to rob. Oliver felt such fear come over him when he recognised the place, that, for the instant, he forgot the agony of his wound, and thought only of flight. Flight! He could scarcely stand and if he were in full possession of all the best powers of his slight and youthful frame, whither@ could he fly@@@? He pushed against the garden-gate it was unlocked, and swung open on its hinges. He tottered across the lawn@ climbed the steps@ knocked faintly at the door@ and, his whole strength failing him, sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico. It happened that about this time, Mr. Giles, Brittles, and the tinker, were recruiting them@selves, after the fatigues and terrors of the night, with tea and sundries, in the kitchen. Not that it was Mr. Giles's habit to admit to too great familiarity the humbler servants@ towards whom it was rather his wont to deport himself with a lofty affability, which, while it gratified, could not fail to remind them of his superior position in society. But, death, fires, and burglary, make all men equals @so Mr. Giles sat with his legs stretched out before the kitchen fender, leaning his left arm on the table, while, with his right, he illustrated a circumstantial  account of the robbery, to which his bearers but especially the cook and housemaid, who were of the party listened with breathless interest. 'It was about half-past two,' said Mr. Giles, 'or I wouldn't swear that it mightn't have been a little nearer three, when I woke up, and, turning round in my bed, as it might be so, here Mr. Giles turned round in his chair, and pulled the corner of the table-cloth over him to imitate bed-clothes, I fancied I heerd a noise.' At this point of the narrative@ the cook turned pale, and asked the housemaid to shut the door@ who asked Brittles, who asked the tinker, who pretended not to hear. '--Heerd a noise,' continued Mr. Giles. 'I says, at first, This is illusion and was com@posing myself off to sleep, when I heerd the noise again, distinct.' 'What sort of a noise?' asked the cook. 'A kind of a busting noise,' replied Mr. Giles, looking round him. 'More like the noise of powdering a@ iron bar on a nutmeg-grater,' suggested Brittles. 'It was, when _you_ heerd it, sir,' rejoined Mr. Giles 'but, at this time, it had a busting sound. I turned down the clothes' continued Giles, rolling back the table-cloth, 'sat up in bed@ and listened.' The cook and housemaid simultaneously eja@culated 'Lor!' and drew their chairs closer together. 'I heerd it now, quite apparent,' resumed Mr. Giles. ' Somebody,@ I says, is forcing of a door, or window what's to be done@? I'll call up that poor lad, Brittles, and save him from being murdered in his bed@ or his throat@, I says, may be cut from his right ear to his left, without his ever knowing it. ' Here, all eyes were turned upon Brittles, who fixed his upon the speaker, and stared at him, with his mouth wide open, and his face expres@sive of the most unmitigated horror. 'I tossed off the clothes,' said Giles, throw@ing away the table-cloth, and looking very hard@@@@@ at the cook and housemaid, 'got softly out of bed@ drew on a pair of--' 'Ladies present, Mr. Giles,' murmured the tinker.  sir,' said Giles, turning upon him, and laying great emphasis on the word 'seized the loaded pistol that always goes up@stairs with the plate-basket@ and walked on tiptoes to his room. Brittles,@ I says, when I had woke him, don't be frightened! ' 'So you did,' observed Brittles, in a low voice. ' We're dead men, I think, Brittles,@ I says,' continued Giles ' but don't be  frightened?' asked the cook. 'Not a bit of it,' replied Mr. Giles. 'He was as firm--ah! pretty near as firm as I was.' 'I should have died at once, I'm sure, if it had been me,' observed the housemaid. 'You're a woman,' retorted Brittles, pluck@ing up a little. 'Brittles is right,' said Mr. Giles, nodding his head, approvingly 'from a woman, nothing else was to be expected. We, being men, took a dark lantern@ that was standing on Brittle@'s hob, and groped our way down@stairs in the pitch dark,--as it might be so.' Mr. Giles had risen from his seat, and taken two steps with his eyes shut, to accompany his description with appropriate action, when he started violently, in common with the rest of the company, and hurried back to his chair. The cook and housemaid screamed. 'It was a knock,' said Mr. Giles, assuming perfect serenity. 'Open the door, somebody.' Nobody moved. 'It seems a strange sort of a thing, a knock coming at such a time in the morning,' said Mr. Giles, surveying the pale faces which sur@rounded him, and looking very blank himself 'but the door must be opened. Do you hear, somebody?' Mr. Giles, as he spoke, looked at Brittles but that young man, being naturally modest, probably considered himself nobody, and so held that the inquiry could not have any appli@cation to him at all events, he tendered no reply. Mr. Giles directed an appealing glance at the tinker@ but he had suddenly fallen asleep. The women were out of the question. 'If Brittles would rather open the door, in the presence of witnesses,' said Mr. Giles, after a short silence, 'I am ready to make one.' 'So am I,' said the tinker, waking up, as suddenly as he had fallen asleep. Brittles capitulated on these terms and the party being somewhat re-assured by the disco@very made on throwing open the shutters that it was now broad day, took their way up@stairs@ with the dogs in front@@@@. The two women, who were afraid to stay below, broug@ht up the rear. By the advice of Mr. Giles, they all talked very loud, to warn any evil-disposed person outside, that they were strong in numbers and by a master-st@oke of policy, originating in the brain of the same ingenious gentleman, the dogs' tails were well pinched, in the hall, to make them bark savagely. These precautions having been taken, Mr. Giles held on fast by the tinker's arm to pre@vent his running away, as he pleasantly said , and gave the word of command to open the door. Brittles obeyed@ @@@@the group, peeping timorously over each other's shoulders, beheld no more formidable object than poor little Oliver Twist, speechless and exhausted, who raised his heavy eyes, and mutely solicited their compassion. 'A boy!' exclaimed Mr. Giles, valiantly, pushing the tinker into the background. 'What's the matter with the--eh?--Why--Brittles--look here--don't you know?' Brittles, who had got behind the door to open it, no sooner saw Oliver, than he ut@tered a loud cry. Mr. Giles, seizing the boy by one leg and one arm fortunately not the broken limb lugged him straight into the hall, and deposited him at full length on the flo@or  'Here he is!' bawled Giles, calling@ in a  up the staircase 'here's one of the thieves, ma'am! Here's a thief, miss! Wounded, miss! I shot him, miss and Brittles held the light.' '--In a lantern, miss,' cried Brittles, applying one hand to the side of his mouth, so that his voice might travel the better. The two women-servants ran up@stairs to carry the intelligence that Mr. Giles had cap@tured a robber and the tinker busied himself in endeavouring to restore Oliver, lest he should die before he could be hanged. In the midst of all this noise and commotion, there was heard a sweet female voice, which quelled it in an instant. 'Giles!' whispered the voice from the stair-head. 'I'm here, miss,' replied Mr. Giles. 'Don't be frightened, miss I ain't much injured. He didn't make a very desperate resistance, miss! I was soon too many for him.' 'Hush!' replied the young lady 'you frighten my aunt as much as the thieves did. Is the poor creature much hurt?' 'Wounded desperate, miss,' replied Giles, with indescribable complacency. 'He looks as if he was a-going, miss,' bawled Brittles, in the same manner as before. 'Wouldn't you like to co@me and look at him, miss, in case he should?' 'Hush, pray@ there's a good man!' rejoined the@@@@@@ lady. 'Wait quietly only one instant, while I speak to aunt.' With a footstep as soft and gentle as the voice, the speaker tripped away. She soon re@turned, with the direction that the wounded person was to be carried, carefully, up@stairs to Mr. Giles's room@ and that Brittles was to saddle the pony and betake himself instantly to Chertsey@ from which place, he was to despatch, with all speed, a constable and doctor. 'But won't you take one look at him, first, miss?' asked Mr. Giles, with as much pride as if Oliver were some bird of rare plumage, that he had skilfully brought down. 'Not one little peep, miss?' 'Not now, for the world,' replied the young lady. 'Poor fellow! Oh! treat him kindly,  my sake!' The old servant looked up at the speaker, @@@as she turned away, with a glance as proud and admiring as if she had been his own child. Then, bending over Oliver, he helped to carry him up@stairs, with the care and solicitude of a woman. Chapter  its furniture had rather the air of old-fashioned comfort, than of modern elegance there sat two ladies at a well-spread breakfast-table. Mr. Giles, dressed with scrupulous care in a full suit of black, was in attendance upon them. He @had taken his station some half-way between the side-board and the breakfast-table@ and, with his body drawn up to its full height, his head thrown back, and inclined the merest trifle on one side, his left leg advanced, and his right hand thrust into his waist-coat, while his left hung down by his side, grasping a waiter, looked like one who laboured under a very agreeable sense of his own merits and import@ance. Of the two ladies, one was well advanced in years@ but the high-backed oaken chair in which she sat, was not more upright than she. Dressed with the utmost nicety and precision, in a quaint mixture of by-gone costume, with some slight concessions to the prevailing taste, which rather served to point the old style pleasantly than to impair its effect, she sat, in a stately manner, with her hands folded on the table before her@@@@.  had dimmed but little of their brightness were atten@tively @@@@@@upon her young companion. The younger lady was in the lovely bloom and spring-time of womanhood at that age, when, if ever angels be for God's good pur@poses enthroned in mortal forms, they may be, without impiety, supposed to abide in such as hers. She was not past seventeen. Cast in so slight and exquisite a mould so mild and gen@tle@ so pure and beautiful@ that earth seemed not her element, nor its rough creatures her fit companions. The very intelligence that shone in her deep blue eye, and was stamped upon her noble head, seemed scarcely of her age, or of the world and yet the changing expression of sweetness and good humour, the thousand lights that played about the face, and left no shadow there above all, the smile, the cheerful, happy smile,  She was busily engaged in the little offices of the table@@@@. Chancing to raise her eyes as the elder lady was regarding her, she playfully put back her hair, which was simply braided on her fore@head@ and threw into her beaming look, such  affection and artless loveliness, that blessed spirits might have smiled to look upon her. her. 'And Brittles has been gone upwards of an hour, has he?' asked the old lady, after a pause. 'An hour and twelve minutes, ma'am,' re@plied Mr. Giles, referring to a silver watch, which he drew forth by a black ribbon. 'He is always slow,' remarked the old lady. 'Brittles always was a slow boy, ma'am,' replied the attendant. And seeing, by the bye, that Brittles had been a slow boy for upwards of thirty years, there appeared no great pro@bability of his ever being a fast one. 'He gets worse instead of better, I think,' said the elder lady. 'It is very inexcusable in him if he stops to play with any other boys,' said the young lady, smiling. Mr. Giles was apparently considering the propriety of indulging in a respectful smile himself, when a gig drove up to the garden-gate@ out of which there jumped a fat gentle@man, who ran straight up to the door@ and who, getting quickly into the house by some mys@terious process, burst into the room, and nearly overturned Mr. Giles and the breakfast-table together. 'I never heard of such a thing!' exclaimed the fat gentleman. 'My dear Mrs. Maylie--bless my soul--in the silence of the night, too--I _never_ heard of such a thing!' With these expressions of condolence, the fat gentleman shook hands with both ladies, and drawing up a chair, inquired how they found themselves. 'You ought to be dead positively dead with the fright,' said the fat gentleman. 'Why didn't you send? Bless me, my man should have come in a minute@ and so would I@ and my assistant would have been delighted@ or anybody, I'm sure, under such circumstances. Dear, dear! So unexpected! In the silence of the night, too!' The doctor seemed expecially troubled by the fact of the robbery having been unexpected, and attempted in the night-tim@e as if it were the established custom of gentlemen in the housebreaking way to transact business at noon, and to make an appointment,  a day or two previous. 'And you, Miss Rose,' said the doctor, turning to the young lady, 'I--' 'Oh! very much so, indeed,' said Rose, in@terrupting him 'but there is a poor creature up@stairs, whom aunt wishes you to see.' 'Ah! to be sure,' replied the doctor, 'so there is. That was your handiwork, Giles, I understand.' Mr. Giles, who had been feverishly putting the tea-cups to rights, blushed very red, and said that he had had that honour. 'Honour, eh?' said the doctor 'well, I don't know perhaps it's as honourable to hit a thief in a back kitchen, as to hit your man at twelve paces. Fancy that he fired in the air, and you've fought a duel, Giles.' Mr. Giles, who thought this light treatment of the matter an unjust attempt at diminishing his glory, answered respectfully, that it was not for the like of him to judge about that@ but he rather thought it was no joke to the opposite party. 'Gad, that's true!' said the doctor. 'Where is he@? Show me the way. I'll look in again, as I co@me down, Mrs. Maylie. That's the little window that he got in at, eh@? Well, I couldn't have believed it!' Talking all the way, he fol@lowed Mr. Giles up@stairs and while he is go@ing up@stairs, the reader may be informed, that Mr. Losberne, a surgeon in the neighbourhood, known through a circuit of ten miles round as 'the doctor,' had grown fat, more from good-humour than from good living@ and was as kind and hearty, and withal as eccentric an old ba@chelor, as will be found in five times that space, by any explorer alive. The doctor was absent, much longer than either he or the ladies had anticipated. A large flat box was fetched out of the gig@ and a bed@room bell was rung very ofte@n and the servants ran up and down stairs perpetually from which tokens it was justly concluded that something important was going on above. At length he returned and in reply to an anxious inquiry after his patient@ looked very mysterious, and closed the door, carefully. 'This is a very extraordinary thing, Mrs. Maylie,' said the doctor, standing with his back to the door, as if to keep it shut. 'He is not in danger, I hope?' said the old lady. 'Why, that would _not_ be an extraordinary thing, under the circumstances,' replied the doctor 'though I don't think he is. Have you seen th@e thief?' 'No,' rejoined the old lady. 'Nor heard anything about him?' 'No.' 'I beg your pardon, ma'am, interposed Mr. Giles 'but I was going to tell you about him when Doctor Losberne came in.' The fact was, that Mr. Giles had not, at first, been able to bring his mind to the avowal, that he had only shot a boy. Such commendations had been bestowed upon his bravery, that he could not, for the life of him, help postponing the explanation for a few delicious minutes@ during which he had flourished, in the very zenith of a brief reputation for undaunted courage. 'Rose wished to see the man,' said Mrs. Maylie, 'but I wouldn't hear of it.' 'Humph!' rejoined the doctor. 'There is nothing very alarming in his appearance. Have you any objection to see him in my presence?' 'If it be necessary,' replied the old lady, 'certainly not.' 'Then I think it is necessary,' said the doctor 'at all events, I am quite sure that you would deeply regret not having done so, if you postponed it. He is perfectly quiet and com@fortable now. Allow me--Miss Rose, will you permit me@? Not the slightest fear, I pledge you my  would be agreeably surprised in the aspect of the criminal, the doctor drew the young lady's arm through one of his@ and offering his disengaged hand to Mrs. Maylie, led them, with much ceremony and stateliness, up@stairs. 'Now,' said the doctor, in a whisper, as he softly turned the handle of a bedroom-door, 'let us hear what you think of him. He has not been shaved very@ recently, but he do@@n't look at all ferocious notwithstanding. Stop, though!  see that he is in visiting order@@@@@.' Stepping before them, he looked into the room@@@@. Motioning them to advance, he closed the door when they had entere@d and gently drew back the curtains of the bed. Upon it, in lieu of the dogged, black-visaged ruffian they had expected to behold, there lay a mere child@ worn with pain and exhaustion, and sunk into a deep sleep. His wounded arm, bound and splintered up, was crossed upon his breast@ @@@@his head reclined upon the other arm, which was half hidden by his long hair, as it streamed over the pillow. The honest gentleman held the curtain in his hand, and looked on, for a minute or so, in silence. Whilst he was watching the patient thus, the younger lady glided softly past, and seating herself in a chair by the bedside, ga@thered Oliver's hair from his face@@@@. As she stooped over him, her tears fell upon his fore@head. The boy stirred, and smiled in his sleep, as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection he had never known. Thus, a strain of gentle music, or the rippling of water in a silent place, or the odour of a flower, or@@@@@ the mention of a familiar word, will sometimes call up sudden dim remembrances of scenes that never were, in this life@ which vanish like a breathreath which some brief memory of a happier existence, long gone by, would seem to have awakenedwh can ever recall@@@@@. 'What can this mean?' exclaimed the elder lady. 'This poor child can never have been the pupil of robbers!' 'Vice,' s@@aid the surgeon, replacing the curtain, 'takes up her abode in many temples and who can say that a fair outside shell not enshrine her?' 'But at so early an age!' urged Rose. 'My dear young lady,' rejoined the surgeon, mournfully shaking his head 'crime, like death, is not confined to the old and withered alone. The youngest and fairest are too often its chosen victims.' 'But, can you--oh@@@@! can you@ really be@lieve that this delicate boy has been the volun@tary associate of the worst outcasts of society?' said  surgeon shook his head, in a manner which intimated that he feared it was very pos@sible and observing that they might disturb the patient, led the way into an adjoining apart@ment. 'But even if he has been wicked,' pursued Rose, 'think how young he is think that he may never have known a mother's love, or@@@@@ the comfort of a home@@@@@ that ill-usage and blows, or the want of bread, may have driven him to herd wi@@@th@ men who have forced him to guilt. Aunt, dear aunt, for mercy's sake, think of this, before you let them drag this sick child to a prison, which in any case must be the grave of all his chances of amendment. Oh! as you love me, and know that I have never felt the want of parents in your goodness and affec@tion, but that I might have done so, and might have been equally helpless and unprotected with this poor child, have pity upon him before it is too late!' 'My dear love,' said the elder lady, as she folded the weeping girl to her bosom, 'do you think I would harm a hair of his head?' 'Oh, no!' replied Rose, eagerly@ the old@ days are drawing to their close@ and may mercy be shown to me as I show it to others! What can I do to save him, sir?' 'Let me think, ma'am,' said the doctor 'let me think.' Mr. Losberne thrust his hands into his pockets, and took several turns up and down the room@ often stopping, and balancing himself on his toes, and frowning frightfully. After various exclamations of 'I've got it now' and 'no, I haven't,' and as many renewals of the walking and frowning, he at length made a dead halt, and spoke as follows 'I think if you give me a full and unlimited commission to bully Giles, and that little boy, Brittles, I can manage it. Giles is a faithful fel@low and an old servant, I know but you can make it up to him in a thousand ways, and re@ward him for being such a good shot besides. You don't object to that?' 'Unless there is some other way of preserving the child,' replied Mrs. Maylie. 'There is no other,' said the doctor. 'No other, take my word for it.' 'Then my aunt invests you with full power,' said Rose, smiling through her tears 'but pray don't be harder upon the poor fellows than is indispensably necessary.' 'You seem to think,' retorted the doctor, 'that every@body is disposed to be hard-hearted to-day, except  only hope, for the sake of the rising male sex generally, that you may be found in as vulnerable and soft-hearted a mood by the @@@@@first eligible young fellow who appeals to your compassion and I wish I were a young fellow, that I might avail myself, on the spot, of such a favourable opportunity for doing so, as the present.' 'You are as great a boy as poor Brittles himself,' returned Rose, blushing. 'Well,' said the doctor, laughing heartily, 'that is no very difficult matter. But to return to this boy. The great point of our agreement is yet to co@me. He will wake in an hour or so, I dare say and although I have told that thick-headed constable-fellow down@stairs that he mus@n't be moved or spoken to, on peril of his life, I think we may converse with him without danger. Now@ I make this stipulation--that I shall examine him in your presence, and that, if, from what he says, we judge, and I can show to the satisfaction of your cool reason, that he is a real and thorough bad one which is more than possible , he shall be left to his fate, without any farther interference on my part, at all events.' 'Oh no, aunt!' entreated Rose. 'Oh yes, aunt!' said the doctor. 'Is is a bargain?' 'He cannot be hardened in vice,' said Rose 'It is impossible.' 'Very good,' retorted the doctor  the more reason for acceding to my pro@position.' Finally@ the treaty was entered into@ and the parties thereunto sat down to wait, with some im@patience, until Oliver should awake. The patience of the two ladies was destined to undergo a longer trial than Mr. Losberne had led them to expect@ for hour after hour passed on, and still Oliver slumbered heavily. It was evening, indeed, before the kind-hearted doctor brought them the intelligence, that he was at length @@@s@@@@ufficiently to be spoken to. The boy was very ill, he said, and weak from the loss of blood but his mind was so troubled with anxiety to disclose something, that he deemed it better to give him the opportunity, than to insist upon his remaining quiet until next morning@ which he should otherwise have done. The conference was a long one@@@@. Oliver told them all his simple history, and was often compelled to stop, by pain and want of strength. It was a solemn thing, to hear, in the darkened room, the feeble voice of the sick child recount@ing a weary catalogue of evils and calamities which hard men had brought upon him. Oh! if@ when we oppress and grind our fellow-crea@tures, we bestowed but one thought on the dark evidences of human error, which, like dense and heavy clouds, are rising, slowly it is true, but not less surely, to Heaven, to pour their after-vengeance on our heads if we heard but one instant, in imagination, the deep testimony of dead men's voices, which no power can stifle, and no pride shut out@ where would be the injury and injustice, the suffering, misery, cruelty, and wrong, that each day's life brings with it@! Oliver's pillow was smoothed by @gentle hands that night@ and loveliness and virtue watched him as he slept. He felt calm and happy, and could have died without a murmur. The momentous interview was no sooner concluded, and Oliver composed to rest again, than the doctor, after wiping his eyes, and con@demning them for being weak all at once,@@@@@ betook himself down@stairs to open upon Mr. Giles. And finding nobody about the parlours, it occurred to him, that he could perhaps originate the proceedings with better effect in the kitchen so into the kitchen he went. There were assembled, in that lower house of the domestic parliament, the women-servants, Mr. Brittles, Mr. Giles, the tinker who had received a special invitation to regale himself for the remainder of the day, in consideration of his services , and the constable. The latter gentleman had a large staff, a large head, large features, and large half-boots@ and he looked as if he had been taking a proportionate allowance of ale--as indeed he had. The adventures of the previous night were still under discussion@ for Mr. Giles was expa@tiating upon his presence of mind, when the doctor entere@@@@d Mr. Brittles, with a mug of ale in his hand, was corroborating everything, before his superior said it. 'Sit still!' said the doctor, waving his hand. 'Thank you, sir, said Mr. Giles. 'Misses wished some ale to be given out, sir and as I felt no ways inclined for my own little room, sir, and was disposed for company, I am taking mine among 'em here.' Brittles headed a low murmur, by which the ladies and gentlemen generally were understood to express the gratification they derived from Mr. Giles's condescensio@@@n. Mr. Giles looked round with a patronising air, as much as to sa@y that so long as they behaved properly, he would never desert them. 'How is the patient to-night, sir?' asked Giles. 'So-so' returned the doctor. 'I am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there, Mr. Giles.' 'I hope you don't mean to say, sir,' said Mr. Giles, trembling, 'that he's going to die. If I thought it, I should never be happy again. I wouldn't cut a boy off@ no, not even Brittles here@ not for all the plate in the count@y, sir.' 'That's not the point,' said the doctor, mysteriously. 'Mr. Giles, are you a Protes@tant?' 'Yes, sir, I hope so,' faltered Mr. Giles, who had turned very pale. 'And what are _you_, boy?' said the doctor, turning sharply upon Brittles. 'Lord bless me, sir!' replied Brittles, start@ing violently 'I'm the same as Mr. Giles, sir.' 'Then tell me this,' said the doctor, @doctor, 'both of you, both of you! Are you going to take upon yourselves to swear, that that boy up@stairs is the boy that was put through the little window last night@? Out with it! Come! We are prepared for you!' The doctor, who was universally considered one of the best-tempered creatures on earth, made this demand in such a dreadful tone of anger, that Giles and Brittles, who were consi@derably muddled by ale and excitement, stared at each other in a state of stupefaction. 'Pay attention to the reply, constable, will you?' said@ the doctor, shaking his forefinger with great solemnity of manner, and tapping the bridge of his nose with it, to bespeak the exercise of that worthy's utmost acuteness. 'Something may come of this before long.' The constable looked as wise as he could, and took up his staff of office@ which had been reclining indolently in the chimney-corner. 'It's a simple question of identity, you will observe,' said the doctor. 'That's what it is, sir,' replied the constable, coughing with great violence for he had finished his ale in a hurry, and some of it had gone the wrong way. 'Here's the house broken into,' said the doc@tor, 'and a couple of men catch one moment's glimpse of a boy, in the midst of gunpowder smoke, and in all the distraction of alarm and darkness. Here's a boy comes to that very same house, next morning, and because he hap@pens to have his arm tied up, these men lay violent hands upon him--by doing which, they place his life in great danger--and swear he is the thief. Now, the question is, whether these men are justified by the fact@@@@ if not, in what situation do they place themselves@@?' The constable nodded profoundly. @He @@@@@ if that wasn't law, he @would be glad to know what was. 'I ask you again,' thundered the doctor, 'are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify that boy?@@' Brittles looked doubtfully at Mr. Giles@ Mr. Giles looked doubtfully at Brittles the con@stable put his hand behind his ear, to catch the reply the two women and the tinker leaned for@ward to listen @@@@the doctor glanced keenly round@ when a ring was heard at the gate, and at the same moment, the sound of wheels. 'It's the runners!' cried Brittles, to all appearance much relieved. 'The what?' exclaimed the doctor, aghast in his turn. 'The Bow Street officers, sir,' replied Brit@tles, taking up a candle 'me and Mr. Giles sent for 'em this morning.' 'What?' cried the doctor. 'Yes,' replied Brittles 'I sent a message up by the coachman, and I only wonder they weren't here before, sir.' 'You did, did you@? Then confound your--slow coaches down here that's all,' said the doctor, walking away.  that?' inquired Brittles, opening the door a little way, with the chain up, and peeping out, shading the candle with his hand. 'Open the door,' replied a man outside 'it's the officers from Bow Street, as was sent to@ to-day.' Much comforted by this assurance, Brittles opened the door to its full width, and co@nfronted a portly man in a great-coat@ who walked in, without saying anything more, and wiped his shoes on the mat, as coolly as if he lived there. 'Just send somebody out to relieve my mate, will you, young man?' said the officer 'he's in the gig, a-minding the prad. @Have you got a coach 'us here, that you could put it up in, for five or ten minutes?' Brittles replying in the affirmative, and pointing out the building, the portly man stepped back to the garden-gate, and helped his companion to put up the gig@ while Brittles lighted them, in a state of great admiration. This done, they returned to the house, and, being shown into a parlour, took off their great-coats and hats, and showed like what they were. The man who had knocked at the door, was a stout personage of middle height, aged about fifty@ with shiny black hair, cropped pretty close@ half-whiskers, a round face, and sharp eyes. The other was a red-headed, bony man, in top-boots@ with a rather ill-favoured coun@tenance, and a turned-u@p sinister-looking nose. 'Tell your governor that Blathers and Duff is here, will you?' said the stouter man, smoothing down his hair, and laying a pair of handcuffs on the table. 'Oh! Good-evening, master. Can I have a word or two with you in private, if you please?' This was addressed to Mr. Losberne, who now made his appearance that gentleman, motioning Brittles to retire, brought in the two ladies, and shut the door. 'This is the lady of the house,' said Mr. Losberne, motioning towards Mrs. Maylie. Mr. Blathers made a bow@@@@. Being desired to sit down, he put his hat @@on the floor, and@ taking a chair, motioned to Duff to do the same. The latter gentleman, who did not appear quite so much accustomed to good society, or quite so much at his ease in it--one of the two--seated himself, after undergoing several muscular affections of the limbs, an@@@@@@@d the head of his stick into his mouth, with some embarrass@ment. 'Now, with regard to this here robbery, master,' said Blathers. 'What are the circum@stances?' Mr. Losberne, who appeared desirous of gaining time, recounted them at great length, and with much circumlocution. Messrs. Bla@thers and Duff look@ed very knowing meanwhile, and occasionally exchang@ed a nod. 'I can't say, for certain, till I see the @work, of course,' said Blathers 'but my opinion at once is,--I don't mind committing myself to that extent,--that this wasn't done by a yokel @eh, Duff?' 'Certainly not,' replied Duff. 'And, translating the word yokel for the benefit of the ladies, I apprehend your mean@ing to be, that this attempt was not made by a countryman?' said Mr. Losberne, with a smile. 'That's it, master,' replied Blathers. 'This is all about the robbery, is it?' 'All,' replied the doctor. 'Now, what is this, about this here boy that the servants are a-talking on?' said Bla@thers. 'Nothing at all,' replied the doctor. 'One of the frightened servants chose to take it into his head, that he had something to do with this attempt to break into the house but it's non@sense sheer absurdity.' 'Wery easy disposed of, if it is,' remarked Duff. 'What he says is quite correct,' observed Blathers, nodding his head in a confirmatory way, and playing carelessly with the handcuffs, as if they were a pair of castanets. 'Who is the boy? What account does he give of himself? Where did he co@me from@? He didn't drop out of the clouds, did he, master?' 'Of course not,' replied the doctor, with a nervous glance at the two ladies. 'I know his whole history @but we can talk about that presently. You would like, first, to see the place where the thieves made their attempt, @I@@@@ ?' 'Certainly,' rejoined Mr. Blathers. 'We had better inspect the premises first, and ex@amine the servants afterwards. That's the usual way of doing business.' Lights were then procured@ and Messrs. Bla@thers and Duff, attended by the native con@stable, Brittles, Giles, and everybody else in short, went into the little room at the end of the passage and looked out at the window@ and afterwards went round by way of the lawn, and looked in at the window@ and after that, had a candle handed out to inspect the shutter with@ and after that, a lantern to trace the footsteps with@ and after that, a pitchfork to poke the bushes with. This done, amidst the breathless interest of all beholders, they came in again@ and Mr. Giles and Brittles were put through a melodra@matic representation of their share in the pre@vious night's adventures@ which they performed some six times over@ contradicting each other, in not more than one important respect, the first time, and in not more than a dozen the last. This consummation being arrived at, Blathers and Duff cleared the room, and held a long council together, compared with which, for secrecy and solemnity, a consultation of great doctors on the knottiest point in medicine, would be mere child's play. Meanwhile, the doctor walked up and down the next room in a very uneasy state@ and Mrs. Maylie and Rose looked on, with anxious faces. 'Upon my word,' he said, making a halt, after a great number of very rapid turns, 'I hardly know what to do.' 'Surely,' said Rose, 'the poor child's story, faithfully repeated to these men, will be suffi@cient to exonerate him.' 'I doubt it, my dear young lady,' said the doctor, shaking his head. 'I don't think it would exonerate him, either with them, or with legal functionaries of a higher grade. What is he, after all, they would say? A runaway. Judged by mere worldly considerations and pro@babilities, his story is a very doubtful one.' 'You @believe it, surely?' interrupted  it, strange as it is@ and perhaps I may be an old fool for doing so,' rejoined the doctor 'but I don't think it is exactly the tale for a practical police-officer, neverthe@less.' 'Why not?' demanded Rose. 'Because, my pretty cross-examiner,' re@plied the doctor 'because, viewed with their eyes, there are @@@many ugly points about it he can only prove the parts that look ill, and none of those that look well. Confound the fellows, they _will_ have the why and the where@fore, and will take nothing for granted. On his own showing, you see, he has been the compa@nion of thieves for some time past he has been carried to a police-officer, on a charge of picking a gentleman's pocket  taken away, forcibly, from that gentleman's house, to a place which he cannot describe or point out, and of the situation of which he has not the remotest idea. He is brought down to Chertsey, by men who seem to have taken a violent fancy to him, whether he will or no@ and is put through a win@dow to rob a house@ and then, just at the very moment when he is going to alarm the inmates, and so do the very thing that would set him all to rights, there rushes into the way@, a@ blun@dering dog of a half-bred butler, and shoots him! As if on purpose to prevent his doing any good for himself! Don't you see all this?' 'I see it, of course,' replied Rose, smiling at the doctor's impetuosity 'but still I do not see anything in it, to criminate the poor child.' 'No,' replied the doctor 'of course not! Bless the bright eyes of your sex! They never see, whether for good or bad, more than one side of any question@ and that is, @@@alwa@ys, the one which first presents itself to them.' Having given vent to this result of exp@erience, the doctor put his hands into his pockets, and walked up and down the room with even greater rapidity than before. 'The more I think of it,' said the doctor, 'the more I see that it will occasion endless trouble and difficulty if we put these men in@@ pos@session of the boy's real story. I am certain it will not be believed and even if they can do nothing to him in the end, still the dragging it forward, and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it, must interfere, ma@terially, with your benevolent plan of rescuing him from misery.' 'Oh! what is to be done?' cried Rose. 'Dear, dear! why did they send for these people?' 'Why, indeed!' exclaimed Mrs. Maylie. 'I would not have had them here, for the world.' 'All I know is,' said Mr. Losberne, at last@ sitting down with a kind of desperate calmness, 'that we must try and carry it off with a bold  object is a good one, and that must be our excuse. The boy has strong symptoms of fever upon him, and is in no condition to be talked to any more that's one comfort. We must make the best of it@@@@@@@ and if bad be the best, it is no fault of ours. Co@me in!' 'Well, master,' said Blathers, entering the room@ followed by his colleague, and making the door fast, before he said any more. 'This warn't a put-up thing.' 'And what the devil's a put-up thing?' de@manded the doctor, impatiently. 'We call it a put-up robbery, ladies,' said Blathers, turning to them, as if he @@@p@@@itied their ignorance, but had a contempt for the doctor's, 'when the servants is in it.' 'Nobody suspected them, in this case,' said Mrs. Maylie. 'Wery likely not, ma'am,' replied Blathers 'but they might have been in it, for all that.' 'More likely on that wery account,' said Duff. 'We find it was a town hand,' said Blathers, continuing his report 'for the style of work is first-rate.' 'Wery pretty indeed it is,' remarked Duff, in an under@tone. 'There was two of 'em in it,' continued Blathers 'and they had a boy with 'em that's plain from the size of the window. That's all to be said at present. We'll see this lad that you've got up@stairs at once, if you please.' 'Perhaps they will take something to drink first, Mrs. Maylie?' said the doctor@ his face brightening@@, as if some new thought had occurred to him. 'Oh! to be sure!' exclaimed Rose, eagerly. 'You shall have it immediately, if you will.' 'Why, thank you, miss!' said Blathers, drawing his coat-sleeve across his mouth 'it's dry work, this sort of duty. Anythink that's handy, miss don't put yourself out of the way, on our accounts.' 'What shall it be?' asked the doctor, fol@lowing the young lady to the sideboard. 'A little drop of spirits, master, if it's all the same,' replied Blathers. 'It's a cold ride from London, ma'am and I always find that spirits co@mes home warmer to the feelings.' This interesting communication was addressed to Mrs. Maylie, who received it very graciously. While it was being conveyed to her, the doctor slipped out of the room. 'Ah!' said Mr. Blathers@ not holding his wine-glass by the stem, but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of his left han@d and placing it in front of his chest 'I have seen a good many pieces of business like this, in my time, ladies.' 'That crack down in the back lane at Ed@monton, Blathers,' said Mr. Duff, assisting his colleague's memory. 'That was something in this way, warn't it?' rejoined Mr. Blathers 'that was done by Conkey Chickweed, that was.' 'You always gave that to him' replied Duff. 'It was the Family Pet, I tell you@@@@. Conkey hadn't any more to do with it than I had.' 'Get out!' retorted Mr. Blathers 'I know better. Do you mind that time Conkey was robbed of his money, though? What a start that was! Better than any novel-book _I_ ever see!' 'What was that?' inquired Rose@ anxious to encourage any symptoms of good-humour in the unwelcome visitors. 'It was a robbery, miss, that hardly any@body would have been down upon,' said Bla@thers. 'This here Conkey Chickweed--' 'Conkey means Nosey, ma'am,' interposed Duff. 'Of course the lady knows that, don't she?' demanded Mr. Blathers. 'Always interrupt@ing, you are, partner! This here Conkey Chick@weed, miss, kept a public-house over Battle@bridge way, and he had a cellar, where a good many young lords went to see cock-fighting, and badger-drawing, and that and a wery intel@lectual manner the sports was conducted in, for I've seen 'em off'en. He warn't one of the family, at that time@ and one night he was robbed of three hundred and twenty-seven guineas in a canva@s bag, that was stole out of his bedroom in the dead of night, by a tall man with a black patch over his eye, who had con@cealed himself under the bed, and after com@mitting the robbery, jumped slap out of window@ which was only a story high. He was wery quick about it. But Conkey was quick, too for  fired a blunderbuss arter him, and roused the neighbourhood. They set up a hue-and-cry, directly, and when they came to look about 'em, found that Conkey had hit the robber for there was traces of blood, all the way to some palings a good distance off@ and there they lost 'em. However, he had made off with the blunt@ and, consequently, the name of Mr. Chick@weed, licensed witler, appeared in the Gazette among the other bankrupts and all manner of benefits and subscriptions, and I don't know what all, was got up for the poor man, who was in a wery low state of mind about his loss, and went up and down the streets, for three or four days, a pulling his hair off in such a desperate manner that many people was afraid he might be going to make away with himself. One day he c@ame up to the office, all in a hurry, and had a private interview with the magistrate, who, after a @@@d@@eal of talk, rings the bell, and orders Jem Spyers in Jem was a active officer , and tells him to go and assist Mr. Chickweed in apprehending the man as robbed his house. I see him, Spyers,@ said Chickweed, pass my house yesterday morning, Why didn't you up, and collar him@@! says Spyers. I was so struck all of a heap, that you might have frac@tured my skull with a toothpick,@ says the poor man but we're sure to have hi@m for between ten and eleven o'clock at night he passed again.@ Spyers no sooner heard this, than he put some clean linen and a comb, in his pocket, in case he should have to stop a day or two and away he goes, and sets himself down at one of the public-house windows behind the little red curtain, with his hat on, all ready to bolt out, at a moment's notice. He was smoking his pipe here, late at night, when all of a sudden Chickweed roars out@, Here he is! Stop thief! Murder! Jem Spyers dashes out and there he sees Chick@weed, a-tearing down the street full cry. Away goes Spyers on goe@s Chickweed round turns the people everybody roars out, Thieves! and Chickweed himself keeps on shouting, all the time, like mad. Spyers loses sight of him a minute as he turns a corner shoots round sees a little crowd dives in@ Which is the man@?@ D--me! says Chickweed, I've lost him again@! It was a remarkable occurrence, but he warn't to be seen nowhere, so they went back to the public-house@@@. Next morning, Spyers took his old place, and looked out, from behind the curtain, for a tall man with a black patch over his eye, till his own two eyes ached again. At last, he couldn't help shutting 'em, to ease 'e@m a minute@ and the very moment he did so, he hears Chickweed a-roaring out, Here he is! Off he starts once more, with Chickweed half-way down the street ahead of him and after twice as long a run as the yesterday's one, the man's lost again! This was done, once or twice more, till one-half the neighbours gave out that Mr. Chickweed had been robbed by the devil, who was playing tricks with him arterwards and the @and @t@h half, that poor Mr. Chickweed had gone mad with grief.' 'What did Jem Spyers say?' inquired the doctor@ who had returned to the room shortly after the commencement of the story. 'Jem Spyers,' resumed the officer, 'for a long time said nothing at all, and listened to everything without seeming to, which showed he understood his business. But, one morning, he walked into the bar, and taking out his snuffbox, sa@ys Chickweed, I've found out who@@ done this here robbery. Have yo@u?@ said Chickweed. Oh, my dear Spyers, only let me have wengeance, and I shall die con@tented! Oh, my dear Spyers, where is the  Come! said Spyers, offering him a pinch of snuff, none of that gammon! You did it yourself. So he had and a good bit of money he had made by it, too and nobody would never have found it out, if he hadn't been so precious anxious to keep up  Mr. Blathers, putting down his wine-glass, and clinking the handcuffs to@gether. 'Very curious, indeed,' observed the doc@tor. 'Now, if you please, you can walk up@stairs.' 'If _you_ please, sir,' returned Mr. Blathers@@@. Closely following Mr. Losberne, the two officers ascended to Oliver's bedroom@ Mr. Giles preceding the party, with a lighted candle. Oliver had been dozing@ but looked worse, and was more feverish than he had appeared yet. Being assisted by the doctor, he managed to sit up in bed for a minute or so@ and looked at the strangers without at all understanding what was going forward@@@@@--in fact, without seeming to recollect where he was, or what had been passing. 'This,' said Mr. Losberne, speaking softly, but with great vehemence notwithstanding, 'this is the lad, who, being accident@l@y wounded by a spring-gun in some boyish tres@pass on Mr. What-d' ye-call-him's grounds, at the back here, co@mes to the house for assist@ance this morning, and is immediately laid hold of and maltreated, by that ingenious gentlemaneman with the candle in his hand@ who has placed his life in considerable danger, as I can profession@ally certify.' Messrs. Blathers and Duff looked at Mr. Giles, as he was thus recommended to their notice@@@. The bewildered butler gazed from them towards Oliver, and from Oliver towards Mr. Losberne, with a most ludicrous mixture of fear and perplexity. 'You don't mean to deny that, I suppose?' said the doctor, laying Oliver gently down again. 'It was all done for the--for the best, sir,' answered Giles. 'I am sure I thought it was the boy, or I wouldn't have meddled with him. I am not of an inhuman disposition, sir.' 'Thought it was what boy?' inquired the senior officer. 'The housebreaker's boy, sir!' replied Giles. 'They--they certainly had a boy.' 'Well? Do you think so now?' inquired Blathers. 'Think what, now?' replied Giles, looking vacantly at his questioner. 'Think it's the same boy, Stupid-head?' re@joined@@@@ Blathers, impatiently. 'I don't know I really don't know,' said Giles, with a rueful countenance. 'I couldn't swear to him.' 'What do you think?' asked Mr. Blathers. 'I don't know what to think,' replied poor Giles. 'I don't think it is the boy indeed, I'm almost certain that it isn't. You know it can't be.' 'Has this man been a-drinking, sir?' in@quired Blathers, turning to the doctor. 'What a precious muddle-headed chap you are!' said Duff, addressing Mr. Giles, with supreme contempt. Mr. Losberne had been feeling the patient's pulse during this short dialogue but he now rose from the chair by the bedside, and re@marked, that if the officers had any doubts upon the subject, they would perhaps like to step into the next room, and have Brittles be@fore them. Acting upon this suggestion, they ad@journed to a neighbouring apartment, where Mr. Brittles, being called in, involved himself and his respected superior in such a wonderful maze of fresh contradictions and impossibilities, as tended to throw no particular light @@on any@thing, @but the fact of his own strong mystifica@tion except, indeed, his declarations that he shouldn't know the real boy, if he were put be@fore him that instant that he had only taken Oliver to be he, because Mr. Giles had said he was and that Mr. Giles had, five minutes pre@viously, admitted in the kitchen, that he began to be very much afraid he had been a little too hasty. Among other ingenious surmises, the ques@tion was then raised, whether Mr. Giles had really hit anybody@ and upon examination of the fellow pistol to that which he had fired, it turned out to have no more destructive loading than gunpowder and brown paper@ a discovery which made a considerable impression on every@body but the doctor, who had drawn the ball about ten minutes before. Upon no one, however, did it make a greater impression than on Mr. Giles himself who, after labouring, for some hours, under the fear of having mortally wounded a fellow-creature, eagerly caught at this new idea, and favoured it to the utmost. Finally, the officers, without troubling them@selves very much about Oliver, left the Chertsey constable in the house, and took up their rest for that night in the town@ promising to return the next morning. With the next morning, there came a rumour, that two men and a boy were in the cage at Kingston, who had been apprehended over night under suspicious circumstances and to Kingston Messrs. Blathers and Duff journeyed accordingly. The suspicious circumstances, however, resolving themselves, on investigation, into the one fact, that they had been discovered sleeping under a haystack@ which, although a great crime, is only punishable by imprison@ment, and is, in the merciful eye of the Eng@lish law, and its comprehensive love of all the King's subjects, held to be no satisfactory proof, in the absence of all other evidence, that the sleeper, or sleepers, have committed burglary accompanied with violence, and have therefore rendered themselves liable to the punishment of death Messrs. Blathers and Duff came back again, as wise as they went. In short, after some more examination, and a great deal more conversation, a neighbouring magistrate was readily induced to take the joint bail of Mrs. Maylie and Mr. Losberne for Oliver's appearance if he should ever be called upon and Blathers and Duff, being rewarded with a couple of guineas, returned to town with divided opinions on the subject of their expedi@tion the latter gentleman@ on a mature consi@deration of all the circumstances, inclining to the belief that the burglarious attempt had ori@ginated with the Family Pet and the former being equally disposed to concede the full merit of it to the great Mr. Conkey Chickweed. Meanwhile, Oliver gradually throve and pro@spered under the united care of Mrs. Maylie, Rose, and the kind-hearted Mr. Losberne. If fervent prayers, gushing from hearts overcharged with gratitude, be heard in heaven--and if they be not, what prayers are!--the blessings which the orphan child called down upon them, sunk into their souls, diffusing peace and happiness.@ ailings were neither slight nor few. In addition to the pain and delay attendant @@on a broken limb, his exposure to the wet and cold had brought on fever and agu@e which hung about him for many weeks, and reduced hi@m sadly. But, at length, he began, by slow degrees, to get better, and to be able to say sometimes, in a few tearful words, how deeply he felt the goodness of the two sweet ladies, and how ar@dently he hoped that@ when he grew strong and w@ell again, he could do something to show his gratitude only something, which would let them see the love and duty with which his breast was full something, however slight, which would prove to them that their gentle kindness had not been cast away@ but that the poor boy whom their charity had rescued from misery, or death, was  serve them with his whole heart and soul. 'Poor fellow!' said Rose, when Oliver had been one day feebly endeavouring to utter the words of thankfulness that rose to his pale lips 'you shall have many opportunities of serving us, if you will. We are going into the country, and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us. The quiet place, the pure air, and all the pleasure@ and beauties of spring, will restore you in a few days@@@@. We will employ you in a hun@dred ways, when you can bear the trouble.' 'The trouble!' cried Oliver. 'Oh! dear lady, if I could but work for y@ou if I could only give you pleasure by watering your flowers, or watching your birds, or running up and down the whole day long, to make you happy@ what would I give to do it!' 'You shall give nothing at all,' said Miss Maylie, smiling 'for, as I told you before, we shall employ you in a hundred ways and if you only take half the trouble to please us, that you promise now, you will make me very happy indeed.' 'Happy, ma'am!' cried Oliver @@@'how kind of you to say so!' 'You will make me happier than I can tell you,' replied the young lady. 'To think that my dear good aunt should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to us, would be an unspeakable pleasure to me but to know that the object of her goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful@ and attached, in consequence, would delight me, more than you can well imagine. Do you understand me?' she i@nquired, watch@ing Oliver's thoughtful face. 'Oh yes, ma'am, yes!' replied Oliver@ eagerly 'but I was thinking that I am un@grateful now.' 'To whom?' inquired the young lady. 'To the kind gentleman, and the dear old nurse, who took so much care of me before,' rejoined Oliver. 'If they knew how happy I am, they would be pleased, I am sure.' 'I am sure they would,' rejoined Oliver's benefactress 'and Mr. Losberne has already been kind enough to promise that@ when you are well enough to bear the journey, he will carry you to see them.' 'Has he, ma'am?' cried Oliver, his face brightening with pleasure. 'I don't know what I shall do for joy when I see their kind faces once again!' In a short time Oliver was sufficiently reco@vered to undergo the fatigue of this expeditio@@@n.  he and Mr. Losberne set out, accordingly, in a little carriage which belonged to Mrs. Maylie. When they came to Chertsey Bridge, Oliver turned very pale, and uttered a loud exclamation. 'What's the matter with the boy?' cried the doctor, as usual, all in a bustle. 'Do you see anything--hear anything--feel anything--eh?' 'That, sir,' cried Oliver, pointing out of the carriage window. 'That house!' 'Yes well, what of it? Stop@ coachman. Pull up here,' cried the doctor. 'What of the house, my man eh?' 'The thieves--the house they took me to!' whispered Oliver. 'The devil it is!' cried the doctor. 'Ha@llo@, there! let me out!' But, before the coachman could dismount from his box, he had tumbled out of the coach, by some means or other and, running down to the deserted tene@ment, began kicking at the door like a mad@@man. 'Halloa?' said a little@ ugly hump-backed man@ opening the door so suddenly, that the doctor, from the very impetus of his last kick, nearly fell forward into the passage. 'What's the matter here?' 'Matter!' exclaimed the other, collaring him, without a moment's reflection. good deal. Robbery is the matter.' 'There'll be  too,' replied the hump-backed man, coolly, 'if you don't take your hands off. Do you hear me?' 'I hear you,' said the doctor, giving his captive a hearty shake. 'Where's--confound the fellow, what's his rascally name--Sikes that's it. Where's Sikes, you thief?' The hump-backed man stared, as if in excess of amazement and indignation then, twisting himself, dexterously, from the doctor's grasp, growled forth a volley of horrid oaths, and re@tired into the house. Before he could shut the door, however, the doctor had passed into the parlour, without a word of parley. He looked anxiously round not an article of furniture not a vestige of anything, animate or inanimate@ not even the position of the cupboards@ answered Oliver's description! 'Now!' said the hump-backed man, who had watched him keenly, 'what do you mean by coming into my house, in this violent way@? Do you want to rob me, or to murder me@? Which is it?' 'Did you ever know a man come out to do either, in a chariot and pair, you ridiculous old vampire?' said the irritable doctor. 'What do you want, then?' demanded the  you take yourself off, before I do you a mischief? Curse you!' 'As soon as I think proper,' said Mr. Los@berne, looking into the other parlour@ which, like the first, bore no resemblance whatever to Oliver's account of it. 'I shall find you out, some day, my friend.' 'Will you?' sneered the ill-favoured cripple. 'If you ever want me, I'm here. I haven't lived here mad@ and all alone, for five-and-twenty years, to be scared by you. You shall pay for this you shall pay for this.' And so saying, the mis-shapen little demon set up a@@@@@@@@ yell, and danced upon the ground, as if @@@wild with rage. 'Stupid enough, this,' muttered the doctor to himself 'the boy must have made a mistake. @Here! Put that in your pocket, and shut your@self up again.' With these words he flung the hunchback a piece of money, and returned to the carriage. The man followed to the chariot door, utter@ing the wildest imprecations and curses all the way but as Mr. Losberne turned to speak to the driver, he looked into the carriage, and eyed Oliver for an instant with a glance so sharp and fierce@ and at the same time so furious and vindictive, that, waking or sleeping, he could not forget it for months afterwards. He con@tinued to utter the most fearful imprecations, until the driver had resumed his seat@ and when they were once more on their way, they could see him some distance behind@ beating his feet upon the ground, and tearing his hair, in trans@ports  rage. 'I am an ass!' said the doctor, after a long silence. 'Did you know that before, Oliver?' 'No, sir.' 'Then don't forget it another time.' 'An ass,' said the doctor again, after a fur@ther silence of some minutes. 'Even if it had been the right place, and the right fellows had been there, what could I have done, single-handed@? And if I had had assistance, I see no good that I should have done, except leading to my own exposure, and an unavoidable state@ment of the manner in which I have hushed up this business. That would have served me right, though. I am always involving my@self in some scrape or other, by acting @@on@@@@. It might have done me good.' Now, the fact was@ that the excellent doctor had never acted upon anything @@@@@but impulse all through his life, and it was no bad compli@ment to the nature of the impulses which governed him, that so far from being involved in any peculiar troubles or misfortunes, he had the warmest respect and esteem of all who knew him. If the truth must be told, he was a little out of temper, for a minute or two, at being dis@appointed in procuring corroborative evidence of Oliver's story on the very first occasion on which he had a chance of obtaining any. @He soon came round again, however@ and finding that Oliver's replies to his questions, were still as straightforward and consistent, and still delivered with as much apparent sincerity and truth, as they had ever been, he made up his mind to attach full credence to them, from that time forth. As Oliver knew the name of the street in which Mr. Brownlow resided, they were enabled to drive straight thither. When the coach turned into it, his heart beat so violently, that he could scarcely draw his breath. 'Now, my boy, which house is it?' inquired Mr. Losberne. 'That! That!' replied Oliver, pointing eagerly out of the window. 'The white house. Oh! make haste! Pray make haste! I feel as if I should die it makes me tremble so.' 'Co@me, come!' said the good doctor, pat@ting him on the shoulder. 'You will see them directly, and they will be overjoyed to find you safe and well.' 'Oh! I hope so!' cried Oliver. 'They were so good to me so very, very good to me@@@@.' The coach rolled on. It stopped. No that was the wrong house@ the next door. It went on a few paces, and stopped again. Oliver looked up at the windows, with tears of happy expectation coursing down his face. Alas! the white house was empty, and there was a bill in the window. 'To Let.' 'Knock at the next door,' cried Mr. Los@berne, taking Oliver's arm in his. 'What has become of Mr. Brownlow, who used to live in the adjoining house, do you know?' The servant did not know but would go and inquire. She presently returned, and said, that Mr. Brownlow had sold off his goods, and gone to the West Indies, six weeks before. Oliver clasped his hands, and sank feebly back@ward@. 'Has his housekeeper gone@ too?' inquired Mr. Losberne, after a moment's pause. 'Yes, sir' replied the servant. 'The old gentleman, the housekeeper, and a gentleman who was a friend of Mr. Brownlow's, all went to@gether.' 'Then turn towards home again,' said Mr. Losberne to the driver 'and don't stop to bait the horses, till you get out of this con@founded London!' 'The book-stall keeper, sir?' said Oliver. 'I know the way there. See him, pray, sir! Do see him!' 'My poor boy, this is disappointment enough for one day,' said the doctor. 'Quite enough for both of us. If we go to the book-stall keeper's, we shall certainly find that he is dead, or has set his house on fire, or run away. No home again straight!' And in obe@dience to the doctor'@@@@@s@ impulse, home they went. This bitter disappointment caused Oliver much sorrow and grief, even in the midst of his happiness for he had pleased himself, many times during his illness, with thinking of all that Mr. Brownlow and Mrs. Bedwin would say to him@ and what delight it would be to tell them how many long days and nights he had passed in reflecting @@on what they had done for him, and in bewailing his cruel separation from them. The hope of eventually clearing himself with them, too, and explaining how he had been forced away, had buoyed him up, and sustained him, under many of his recent trials and now, the idea that they should have gone so far, and carried with them the belief that he was an im@postor and a robber--a belief which might re@main uncontradicted to his dying day--was almost more than he could bear. The circumstance occasioned no alteration, however, in the behaviour of his benefactors. After another fortnight, when the fine warm weather had fairly begun, and every tree and flower was putting forth its young leaves and rich blossoms, they made preparations for quit@ting the house at Chertsey, for some months. Sending the plate, which had so excited @@Fagin's cupidity, to the banker's@ and leaving Giles and another servant in care of the house, they departed to@ a cottage at some dis@tance in the country, and took Oliver with them. W@ho can describe the pleasure and delight, the peace of mind and soft tranquillity, @@@@@@the sickly boy felt in the balmy air, and among the green hills and rich woods, of an inland village! Who can tell how scenes of peace and quietude sink into the minds of pain-worn dwellers in close and noisy places, and carryrry their own freshness, deep into their jaded hearts!@@ Men who have lived in crowded, pent-up streets, throug@@@h@@@ lives of toil,  wished for change men, to whom custom has indeed been second nature, and who have come almost to love each brick and stone that formed the narrow boundaries of their daily walks even they, with the hand of death upon them, have been known to yearn at last for one short glimpse of Nature's face and, carried far from the scenes of their old pains and pleasures, have seemed to pass at once into a new state of being@@@@. Crawling forth, from day to day, to some green sunny spot, have had such me@mories wakened up within them by th@@@@@e  of the sky, and hill@ and plain, and glistening water, that a foretaste of heaven itself has soothed their quick decline, and they have sunk into their tombs, as peacefully as the sun whose setting they watched from their lonely chamber window but a few hours before, faded from their dim and feeble sight! The memories which peaceful country scenes call up, are not of this world, nor of its thoughts and hopes. Their gentle influence may teach us how to weave fresh garlands for the graves of those we loved@ may purify our thoughts, and bear down before it old enmity and hatred but beneath all this, there lingers, in the least reflective mind, a vague and half-formed consciousness of having held such feelings long before, in some remote and distant time, which calls up solemn thoughts of distant times to co@me, and bends down pride and worldliness beneath it. It was a lovely spot to which they repaired@@@@. Oliver, whose days had been spent among squalid crowds, and in the midst of noise and brawling, seemed to enter @@on a new existence there. The rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls@ the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees@ and the garden-flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours. Hard by, was a little churchyard not crowded with tall@ unsightly gravestones, but full of humble mounds, covered with fresh turf and moss@ be@neath which, the old people of the village lay at rest. Oliver often wandered here@ and, thinking of the wretched grave in which his mother lay, would sometimes sit him down and sob unseen but, when he raised his eyes to the deep sky over@head, he would cease to think of her as lying in the ground, and would weep for her, sadly, but with@out pain. It was a happy time. The days were peace@ful and serene@ @@@@the nights brought with them neither fear nor care no languishing in a wretched prison, or associating with wretched men nothing but pleasant and happy thoughts. Every morning he went to a white-headed old gentleman, who lived near the little church@ who taught him to read better, and to write@ and who spoke so kindly, and took such pains, that Oliver could never try enough to please him. Then, he would walk with Mrs. Maylie and Rose, and hear them talk of books@ or perhaps sit near them, in some shady place, and listen whilst the young lady read@ which he could have done, unti@l it grew too dark to see the letters. Then, he had his own lesson for the next day to prepare@ and at this, he would work hard, in a little room which looked into the garden, till evening came slowly on, when the ladies would walk out again, and he with them listening with such pleasure to all they said@ and so  they wanted a flower that he could climb to reach, or had forgotten anything he could run to fetch@ that he could never be quick enough about it. When it became quite dark, and they returned home, the young lady would sit down to the piano, and play some  or sing, in a low and gentle voice, some old song which it pleased her aunt to hear. There would be no candles lighted at such times as these@ and Oliver would sit by one of the windows, listening to the sweet music,@ And when Sunday came, how differently the day was spent, from any wa@@@y in which he had ever spent it yet! and how happily@ too like all the other days in that most happy time! There was the little church, in the morning, with the green leaves fluttering at the windows@ the birds singing withou@t and the sweet-smelling air stealing in at the low porch, and filling the homely building with its fra@grance. The poor people were so neat and clean, and knelt so reverently in prayer, that it seemed a pleasure, not a tedious duty, their assembling there together and though the singing might be rude, it was real, and sounded more musical to Oliver's ears at least than any he had ever heard in church before. Then, there were the walks as usual, and many calls at the clean houses of the labouring men and at night, Oliver read a chapter or two from the Bible, which he had been studying all the week, and in the performance of which duty he felt more proud and pleased, than if he had been the clergyman himself. In the morning, Oliver would be a-foot by six o'clock, roaming the fields, and plundering the hedges, far and wide, for nosegays of wild flowers, with which he would return laden, home@ and which it took great care and con@sideration to arrange, to the best advantage, for the embellishment of the breakfast-table. There was fresh groundsel, too, for Miss Maylie's birds, with which Oliver, who had been study@ing the subject under the able tuition of the village clerk, would decorate the cages, in the most approved taste. When the birds were@@@@ made all spruce and smart for the day, there was usually some little commission of charity to execute in the village or, failing that, there  g@reen@  this science also, under the same master, who was a gardener by trade, applied himself with hearty good-will, unti@l Miss Rose made her appearance@ when there were a thousand com@mendations to be bestowed @@on all he hade So three months glided away three months which, in the life of the most blessed and favoured of mortals, might have been unmingled happiness, and which, in Oliver's @@@@@@@. With the purest and most amiable generosity on one side@ and the truest,@@@@  gratitude on the other@ it is no wonder that, by the end of that short time, Oliver Twist had become completely domesticated with the old lady and her niece, and that the fervent attachment of his young and sensitive heart, was repaid by their pride in, and attachment to, himself. Chapter  swiftly by, and summer came@@@. If the village had been beautiful at firs@t it was now in the full glow and luxuriance of its richness. The great trees, which had looked shrunken and bare in the earlier months, had now burst into strong life and health@ and stretching forth their green arms over the thirsty ground, converted open and naked spots into choice nooks, where was a deep and plea@sant shade from which to look upon the wide prospect, steeped in sunshine, which lay stretchedched beyond. The earth had donned her mantle of brightest green@ and shed her richest perfumes abroad. It was the prime and vigour of the year@@@@@ all things were glad and flourishing. Still, the same quiet life went on at the little cottage, and the same cheerful serenity pre@vailed among its inmates. Oliver had long since grown stout and healthy but health or sickness made no difference in his warm feel@ings  was still the same gentle, attached, affectionate crea@ture that he had been when pain and suffering had wasted his strength, and when he was dependent for every slight attention, and comfort on those who tended him. One beautiful night, when they had taken a longer walk than was customary with them@ for the day had been unusually warm, and there was a brilliant moon, and a light wind had sprung up, which was unusually refreshing. Rose had been in high spirits, too, and they had walked on, in merry conversation, until they had far exceeded their ordinary bounds. Mrs. Maylie being  @@@@they returned more slowly home. The young lady@ merely throwing off her simple bonnet, sat down to the piano@ as usual. After running abstractedly over the key@@s for a few minutes, she fell into a low and very solemn air and as she played it, they heard @@a sound as if she were weeping. 'Rose, my dear!' said the elder lady. Rose made no reply, but played a little quicker, as though the words had roused her from some painful thoughts. 'Rose, my love!' cried Mrs. Maylie, rising hastily, and bending over her. 'What  In tears! My dear child, what distresses you?' 'Nothing, aunt@ nothing,' replied the young lady. 'I don't know what it is I can't describe it but I  ill, my love?' interposed Mrs. Maylie. 'No, no! Oh, not ill!' replied Ros@e shud@dering@ as though some deadly chillness were passing over her, while she spoke  be better presently. Close the window, pray!' Oliver hastened to comply with @her request@@@. The young lady, making an effort to recover her cheerfulness, strove to play some livelier tune but her fingers dropped powerless over the @@@. Covering her face with her hands, she sank upon a sofa, and gave vent to the tears which she was now unable to repress. 'My child!' said the elderly lady, folding her arms about her, 'I never saw you @@so  'I would not alarm you if I could avoid it,' rejoined Rose 'but indeed I have tried very hard, and cannot help this. I fear I _am_ ill, aunt.' She was, indeed for, when candles were brought, they saw that in the very short time which had elapsed since their return home, the hue of her countenance had changed to a mar@ble whiteness. Its expression had lost nothing of its beauty@ bu@@@@t it was changed@ and there was an anxious@ haggard look about th@e gentle face, which it had never worn before. Another minute, and it was suffused with a crimson flush@ and a heavy wildness came over the soft blue eye. Again this disappeared, like the shadow thrown by a passing cloud@ and she was once more deadly pale.@@@@@ Oliver, who watched the old lady anxiously, observed that she was alarmed by these appear@ances@ and so@ in truth, was he but seeing that she affected to make light of them, he endea@voured to do the same, and they so far su@cceeded, that when Rose was persuaded by her aunt to retire for the night, she was in better spirits@ and appeared even in better healthealth assuring them that she felt certain she should rise in the morning, quite well. 'I hope,@@@'@@@ said Oliver, when Mrs. Maylie returned, 'that nothing @@@i@@s @@@the  look well to-night, but--' The old lady motioned to him not to speak@ and sitting herself down in a dark corner of the room, remained silent for some time. At length, she said, in a trembling voice 'I hope not, Oliver. I have been very happy with her for some years too happy, perhaps@@@@. It may be time that I should meet with some misfortune but I hope it is not this.'  Oliver. 'The heavy blow,' said the old lady,  'of losing the dear girl who has so long been my comfort and happiness.' 'Oh! God forbid!' exclaimed Oliver, has@tily. 'Amen to that, my child!' said the old lady, wringing her hands. 'Surely there is no danger of anything so dreadful?' said Oliver. 'Two hours ago, she was quite well.' 'She is very ill now,' rejoined Mrs. Maylies 'and will be worse, I am sure. My dear, dear Rose! Oh, what sh@all I do without her!' She  gave way to such great grief, that Oliver, suppressing his own emotion, ventured to remonstrate with her@ and to beg, earnestly, that, for the sake of the dear young lady herself, she would be more calm. 'And consider, ma'am,' said Oliver, as the tears forced themselves into his eyes, despite of his efforts to the contrary. 'Oh@! consider how young and good she is, and what pleasure and comfort she gives to all about her. I am sure--certain--quite certain--that, for your sake, who are so good yourself@ and for her own@ and for the sake of all she makes so happy@ she will not die. Heaven will never let her die young.' 'Hush!' said Mrs. Maylie, laying her hand on Oliver's head. 'You think like a child, poor boy.  But you teach me my duty, notwithstanding. I had forgotten it for a moment, Oliver, but I hope I may be par@doned, for I am old, and have seen enough of illness and death to know the  have seen enough, too, to know that it is not always the youngest and best who are spared to those that love them but this should give us comfort  for Heaven is just@ and such things teach us, impressively, that there is@@ @a@ brighter world than this@ and that the passage to it is speedy. God's will be done!@@@@ I love her@ and H@@@@@@e knows how well!' Oliver was surprised to see that as Mrs. Maylie said these words, she checked her lamentations as though by  drawing herself up as she spoke, becam@@@@@@e composed and firm. He was still more asto@nished to find that this firmness lasted@ and that, under all the care and watching which ensued, Mrs. Maylie was every ready and col@lected@ performing all the duties which had devolved upon her, steadily, and, to all external appear@ances, even cheerfully. But he was young, and did not know what strong minds are capable of, under trying circumstances. How should h@@@@@@@e@, when their possessors so seldom know themselves@? An anxious night ensued@@@@. When morning came, Mrs. Maylie's predictions were but too well verified. Rose was in the first stage of a high and dangerous fever. 'We must be active, Oliver, and not give way to useless grief,' said Mrs. Maylie, laying her finger on her lip, as she looked steadily into his face 'this letter must be sent, with all pos@sible expedition, to Mr. Losberne. It must be carried to the market-town@ which is not more than four miles off, by the footpath across the field@@ and thence dispatched, by an express on horseback, straight to Chertsey. The people at the inn will undertake to do this@ and I can trust to you to see it done, I know.' Oliver could make no reply, but looked his anxiety to be gone at once. 'Here is another letter,' said Mrs. Maylie, pausing to reflect 'but whether to send it now, or wait until I see how Rose goes on, I scarcely know. I would not forward it, unless I feared the worst.' 'Is it for Chertsey, too, ma'am?' inquired Oliver@ impatient to execute his commission, and holding out his trembling hand for the letter. 'No,' replied the old lady, giving it to him mechanically. Oliver glanced at it, and saw that it was directed to Harry Maylie, Esquire, at some great lord's house in the country where, he could not make out. 'Shall it go, ma'am?' asked Oliver, looking up, impatiently. 'I think not,' replied Mrs. Maylie, taking it back. 'I will wait until@ to-morrow.' With these words, she gave Oliver her purse, and he started off, without more delay, at the greatest speed he could muster. Swiftly he ran across the fields, and down the little lanes which sometimes divided them@ now almost hidden by the high corn on either side, and now emerging on@@ an open field, where the mowers and haymakers were busy at their work nor did he stop once, save now and then, for a few seconds, to recover breath, until he @@came@, in a great heat, and covered with dust, on the little market-place of the market-town. Here he paused, and looked about for the inn. There were a white bank, and a red brewery, and a yellow town-hall and in one  a large house, with all the wood about it painted green@ before which was the sign of 'The George.' To thi@s he  caught his eye. @@@He@ spoke to a postboy who was dozing under the gateway@ and who, after hearing what he wanted, referred him to the @ostler wh@o after hearing all he had to say again, referred him to the landlord@ who was a tall gentleman in a blue neckcloth, a white hat, drab breeches, and boots with tops to match, @@@@@@@@leaning against a pump by the stable-door, picking his teeth with a silver toothpick. This gentleman walked with much delibera@tion into the bar to make out the bill@ which took a long time making out@ and after it was ready, and paid, a horse had to be saddled, and a man to be dressed, which took up ten good minutes more. Meanwhile@ Oliver was in such a des@perate state of impatience and anxiety, that he felt as if he could have jumped upon the horse himself, and galloped away, full tear, to the next stage. At length, all was ready@ and the little parcel having been handed up, with many in@junctions and entreaties for its speedy delivery, the man set spurs to his horse, and rattling over the uneven paving of the market-place, was out of the town, and galloping along the turn@pike-road, in a couple of minutes. As it was something to feel certain that assist@ance was sent for, and that no time had been lost, Oliver hurried up the inn-yard, with a somewhat lighter heart. @He was turning out of the gateway when he accident@l@y stumbled against a tall man@ wrapped in a cloak, who was at that moment coming out of the inn door. 'Hah!' cried the man, fixing his eyes on Oliver, and suddenly recoiling. 'What the devil's this?' 'I beg your pardon, sir,' said Oliver 'I was in a great hurry to get home, and didn't see you were coming.' 'Death!' muttered the man to himself, glaring at the boy with his large dark eyes. 'Who would have thought it! Grind him to ashes! He'd start up from a @stone coffin, to come in my way!' 'I @@@@' stammered Oliver, con@fused by the strange man's wild look. 'I hope I have not hurt you!'  the man, in a horrible passion@ between his clenched teeth 'if I had only had the courage to say the word, I might have been free of you in a night. Curses@@@@@@ @@on your head, and black death @@on your heart, you imp! What are you doing here?' The man shook his  as he uttered these words incoherently.  towards Oliver, as if with the intention of aiming a blow at him, but fell vio@lently on the ground@ writhing and foaming, in a fit. Oliver gazed, for a moment, at  struggles of the madman for such he supposed him to bebe and then darted into the house for help. Having seen him safely carried into the hotel, he turned his face homewards, running as fast as he could, to make up for lost time@ and recalling@ with a great deal of astonishment and some fear, the extraordinary behaviour of the person from whom he had just parted. The circumstance did not dwell in his recol@lection long, however for when he reached the cottage, there was enough to occupy his mind, and to drive all considerations of self completely from his memory. Rose Maylie had rapidly grown worse@@@@@ before mid-night she was delirious. A medical practitioner, who resided on the spot, was in constant attendance upon her@ and after first seeing the patient, he had taken Mrs. Maylie aside, and pronounced her disorder to be one of a most alarming nature. 'In fact,' he said, 'it would be little short of a miracle, if she recovered.' How often did Oliver start from his bed that night, and stealing out, with noiseless footstep, to the staircase, listen for the slightest sound from the sick chamber! How often did a trem@ble shake his frame, and cold drops of terror start upon his brow, when a sudden trampling of feet caused him to fear that something too dreadful to think of, had even then occurred! And what had been the fervency of all the prayers he had ever muttered, compared with those he poured forth, now, in the agony and passion of his supplication@ for the life and health of the gentle creature, who was tottering on the deep grave's verge! Oh! the suspense, the fearful, acute suspense, of standing idly by while the life of one we dearly love, is trembling in the balance! Oh! the racking thoughts that crowd upon the mind, and make the heart beat violently, and the breath co@me thick, by the force of the images they conjure up before it the desparate anxiety _to be doing something_ to relieve the pain, or lessen the dan@ger, which we have no power to alleviate @@@@the sinking of soul and spirit, which the sad remembrance of our helplessness produces@ what tortures can equal these@ @@@@what reflec@tions or endeavours can, in the full tide and fever of the time, allay them@! Morning came@ and the little cottage was lonely and still. People spoke in whispers anxious faces appeared at the gate, from time to time@@@@@ women and children went away in tears. All the livelong day, and for hours after it had grown dark, Oliver paced softly up and down the garden, raising his eyes every instant to the sick chamber, and shuddering to see the darkened window, looking as if death lay stretched inside. Late that night, Mr. Losberne arrived. 'It is hard,' said the good doctor, turning away as he spoke 'so young so much beloved but there is very little hope.' Another morning. The sun shone brightly@ as brightly as if it looked upon no misery or care and, with every leaf and flower in full bloom about her@ with life, and health, and sounds and sights of joy, surrounding her on every side@ the fair young creature lay, wasting fast. Oliver crept away to the old churchyard, and sitting down on one of the green mounds, wept for her, in silence. There was such peace and beauty in the scene@ so much of brightness and mirth in the sunny landscape@ such blithesome music in the songs of the summer birds@ such freedom in the rapid flight of the rook, careering overhead@ so much of life and joyousness in all@ that, when the boy raised his aching eyes, and looked about, the thought instinctively occurred to him, that this was not a time for death that Rose could surely never die when humbler things were all so glad and gay that graves were for cold and cheerless winter@ not for sunlight and fragrance. He almost thought that shrouds were for the old and shrunken@  wrapped the young and graceful form @i@@@n their ghastly folds. A knell from the church bell broke harshly on these youthful thoughts. Another! Again! It was tolling for the funeral service. A group of humble mourners entered the  favours@ for the corpse was young. They stood uncovered by a grave and there was a mother--a mother once--among the weeping train. But the sun shone brightly, and the birds sang on. Oliver turned homeward@, thinking on the many kindnesses he had received from the young lady, and wishing that the time could could come@ again, that he might never cease showing her how grateful and attached he was. He had no cause for self-reproach on the score of neglect, or want of thought, for he had been devoted to her service and yet a hundred little occasions rose up before him, on which he fancied he might have been more zealous, and more earnest, and wished he had been. We need be careful how we deal with those about us, when every death carries@@@@@@@@ to some small circle of survivors, thoughts of so much omitted, and so little done--of so many things forgotten, and so many more which might have been re@paired!  so deep as that which is unavailing if we would be spared its tortures, let us remember this, in time. When he reached home@ Mrs. Maylie was sit@ting in the little parlour. Oliver's heart sank at sight of her@ for she had never left the bedside of her niece@ and he trembled to think what change could have driven her away. He learnt that she had fallen into a deep sleep, from which she would waken, either to recovery and life, or to bid them farewell, and die. They sat, listening, and afraid to speak, for hours. The untasted meal was removed@@@, with looks which showed that their thoughts were elsewhere, they watched the sun as he sank lower and lower, and, at length, cast over sky and earth those brilliant hues which herald his departure. Their quick ears caught the sound of an approaching footstep@@@@. They both involuntarily darted to@@@@@ the door, as Mr. Losberne entered. 'What of Rose?' cried the old lady. 'Tell me at once! I can bear it anything but sus@pense! Oh, tell me! in the name of Heaven!' 'You must compose yourself,' said the doc@tor@ supporting her. 'Be calm, my dear ma'am, pray.' 'Let me go, in God's  dear child! She is dead! She is dying!' 'No!' cried the doctor, passionately. 'As He is good and merciful, she will live to bless us all, for years to come.' The lady fell upon her knees, and tried to fold her hands together but the energy which had supported her so long, fled up to Heaven with her first thanksgiving@ and she sank @@@@@into the friendly arms which were extended to receive her. Chapter  It was almost too much happiness to bear. Oliver felt stunned and stupefied by the unex@pected intelligence he could not weep, or speak, or rest. He had scarcely the power of understanding anything that had passed, until, after a long ramble in the quiet evening air, a burst of tears came to his relief, and he seemed to awaken, all at once, to a full sense of the joy@ful change that had occurred, and the almost insupportable load of anguish which had been taken from his breast. The night was fast closing in, when he re@turned homeward@@ laden with flowers which he had culled, with peculiar care, for the  of the sick chamber. As he walked briskly along the road, he heard behind him, the noise of some vehicle, approaching at a furious pace. Looking round, he saw that it was a post-chaise, driven at great speed and as the horses were galloping, and the road was nar@row, he stood leaning against a gate until it should have passed him@@@. As it dashed on, Oliver caught a glimpse of a man in a white nightcap, whose face seemed familiar to him, although his view was so brief that he could not identify the person. In another second or two, the nightcap was thrust out of the chaise-window, and a stentorian voice bellowed to the driver to stop@ which he did, as soon as he could pull up his horses. Then, the nightcap once again appeared@ and the same voice called Oliver by his name. 'Here!' cried the voice. @@@@@@'Oliver, what's the news? Miss Rose! Master O-li-ver!' 'Is is you, Giles?' cried Oliver, running up to the chaise-door. Giles popped out his nightcap again, prepa@ratory to making some reply, when he was sud@denly pulled back by a young gentleman who occupied the other corner of the chaise, and who eagerly demanded what was the news. 'In a word!' cried the gentleman, 'Better or worse?' 'Better--much better!' replied Oliver, hastily. 'Thank Heaven!' exclaimed the gentleman. 'You are sure?' 'Quite, sir,' replied Oliver. 'The change took place only a few hours ago@ and Mr. Los@berne says, that all danger is at an end.' The gentleman said not another word, but, opening the chaise-door, leaped out, and taking Oliver hurriedly by the arm, led him aside. 'You are quite certain@? There is no possi@bility of any mistake on your part, my boy, is there?' demanded the gentleman@ in a tremu@lous voice. @@@@'Do not deceive me, by awak@ening@@@@ hopes that are not to be fulfilled.' 'I would not for the world, sir,' replied Oliver. 'Indeed you may believe me. Mr. @@@@@Losberne's words were, that she would live to bless us all for many years to co@me. I heard him say so.' The tears stood in Oliver's eyes as he recalled the scene which was the beginning of so much happiness@ and the gentleman turned his face away, and remained silent, for some minutes. Oliver thought he heard him sob, more than once@ but he feared to interrupt him by any f@resh@@ remark--for he could well guess what his feelings were--and so stood apart, feigning to be occupied with his nosegay. All this time, Mr. Giles, with the white night@cap on, had been sitting @@on the steps of the chaise, supporting an elbow on each knee, and wiping his eyes with a blue cotton pocket-handkerchief dotted with white spots. That the honest fellow had not been feigning emotion, was abundantly demonstrated by the very red eyes with which @he regarded the young gentle@man, when he turned round and addressed him. 'I think you had better go on to my mother's in the chaise, Giles,' said he. 'I would rather walk slowly on, so as to gain a little time before I see her. You can say I am coming.' 'I beg your pardon, Mr. Harry,' said Giles@ giving a final polish to his ruffled countenance with the handkerchief 'but if you would leave the postboy to say that, I should be very much obliged to you. It wouldn't be proper for the maids to see me in this state, sir I should never have any more authority with them if they did.' 'Well,' rejoined Harry Maylie, smiling, 'you can do as you like. Let him go on with the  if you wish it, and do you follow with us. Only first exchange that night@cap for some more appropriate covering, or we shall be taken for madmen.' Mr. Giles, reminded of his unbecoming cos@tume, snatched off and pocketed his nightcap@ and substituted a hat, of grave and sober shape, which he took out of the chaise. This done, the postboy drove off@ @@@@Giles, Mr. Maylie, and Oliver, followed at their leisure. As they walked along, Oliver glanced from time to time with much interest and curiosity at the new comer. He seemed about five-and-twenty years of age, and was of the middle height his countenance was frank and hand@some@ and his  and prepossessing. Notwithstanding the difference@ between youth and age, he bore so strong a likeness to the old lady, that Oliver would have had no great difficulty in imagining their rela@tionship,@@@@@ if he had not already spoken of her as his mother. Mrs. Maylie was anxiously waiting to receive her son when he reached the cottage@@@@. The meeting did not take place without great emo@tion on both sides. @@@'Mother!' whispered the young man 'why did you not write before@?@ replied Mrs. Maylie 'but, on reflection, I determined to keep back the letter until I had heard Mr. Losberne's opi@nion.' 'But why,' said the young man, 'why run the chance of that occurring which so nearly happened? If Rose had--I cannot utter that word now--if this illness had terminated differ@ently, how could you ever have forgiven  again!' 'If that _had_ been the case, Harry,' said Mrs. Maylie, 'I fear your happiness would have been effectually blighted, and that your arrival here, a day sooner or a day later, would have been of very, very little import.' 'And who can wonder if it be so, mother?' rejoined the young man 'or why should I say, _if_?--It is--it is--you know it, mother--you must know it!' 'I know that sh@@@e@@ deserves the best and purest love th@@@@@e heart of man can offer,' said Mrs. Maylie 'I know that the devotion and affection of her nature require no ordinary return, but one that shall be deep and lasting. If I did not feel this, and know, besides, that a changed behaviour in one she loved would break her heart, I should not feel my task so difficult of performance, or have to encounter so many struggles in my own bosom, when I take what seems to me to be the strict line of duty.' 'This is unkind, mother,' said Harry. 'Do you still suppose that th my own mind, @@and mistaking the impulses of my own soul?' 'I think, my dear @@@son,' returned Mrs. Maylie, laying her hand upon his shoulder, 'that youth has many generous impulses which do not last and that among them are some, which, being gratified, become only the more fleeting. Above all, I think' said the lady, fixing her eyes on her son's face, 'that if an enthusiastic, ardent, and ambitious  a wife on whose name there is a stain, which, though it originate in no fault of hers, may be visited by cold and sordid people upon her, and upon his children also@ and, in exact proportion to his success in the world, be cast in his teeth, and made the subject of sneers against him@ he may, no matter how generous and good his nature, one day repent of the connection he formed in early life. And she may have the  knowing that he does so.' 'Mother,' said the young man, impatiently, 'he would be a@@@@@ selfish brute, unworthy alike of the name of man and of the woman you describe, who acted thus.' 'You think so now, Harry,' replied his mother. 'And ever will!' said the young man. 'The mental agony I have suffered, during the last two days, wrings from me  to you of a passion which, as you well know, is not one of yesterday, nor one I have lightly formed. On Rose, sweet, gentle girl! my heart is set, as firmly as ever heart of man was set on woman. I have no thought, no view, no hope@ in life, beyond her and if you oppose me in this great stake, you take my peace and happiness in your hands, and cast them to the wind. Mother, think better of this, and of me, and do not disregard the  of which you seem to think so little.' 'Harry,' said Mrs. Maylie, 'it is because I think so much of warm and sensitive hearts, that I would spare them from being wounded. But we have said enough, and more than enough, on this matter, just now.@' @'Let it rest with Rose, then,' interposed Harry. 'You will not press these overstrained opinions of yours, so far, as to throw any obstacle in my way?' 'I will not,' rejoined Mrs. Maylie 'but I would have you  considered!' was the impatient reply  have @, ever since I have been capable of serious re@flection. My feelings remain unchanged, as they ever will and why should I suffer the pain of a delay in giving them vent, which can be productive of no earthly good@? No! Before I leave this place, Rose shall hear me.' 'She shall,' said Mrs. Maylie. 'There is something in your manner, which would almost imply that she will hear me coldly, mother,' said the young  coldly,' rejoined the old lady 'far from it.' 'How then?' urged the young man. 'She has formed no other attachment?' 'No, indeed,' replied his mother 'you have, or I mistake, too strong a hold on her affections already. What I would say,' resumed the old lady, stopping her son as he was about to speak, 'is this. Before you stake your all on this chance@ @before you suffer yourself to be carried to the highest point of hope@ reflect for a few moments, my dear child, on Rose's history, and consider what effect the knowledge of her doubtful birth may have on her decision@ devoted as she is to us, with all the intensity of her noble mind, and with that perfect sacrifice of self which, in all matters, great or trifling, has always been her characteristic.' 'What do you mean?' 'That I leaveave you to discover,' replied Mrs. Maylie. 'I must go back to @her. God bless you!' 'I shall see you again to-night?' said the young man, eagerly. 'By and by,' replied the lady 'when I leave Rose.' 'You will tell her I am here?' said Harry. 'Of course,' replied Mrs. Maylie. 'And say how anxious I have been, and how much I have suffered, and how I long to see her. You will not refuse to do this, mother?' 'No,' said the old lady 'I will tell her all.' And pressing her son's hand, affection@ately, she hastened from the room. Mr. Losberne and Oliver had remained at another end of the apartment while this hur@ried conversation was proceeding. The former now held out his hand to Harry Maylie@ and hearty salutations were exchanged between them. The doctor then communicated, in reply to multifarious questions from his young friend, a precise account of his patient's situa@tion@ which was quite as consolatory and full of promise, as Oliver's statement had encouraged him to hope and to the whole of which, Mr. Giles, who affected to be busy about the lug@gage, listened with greedy ears. 'Have you shot anything particular, lately, Giles?' inquired the doctor, when he had con@cluded. 'Nothing particular, sir,' replied Mr. Giles, colouring up to the eyes. 'Nor catching any thieves, nor identifying any house-breakers?' said the  at all, sir,' replied Mr. Giles, with much gravity. 'Well,' said the doctor, 'I am sorry to hear it, because you do that sort of thing admirably. Pray, how is Brittles?' 'The boy is very well, sir,' said Mr. Giles, recovering his usual tone of patronage 'and sends his respectful duty, sir.' 'That's well,' said the doctor. 'Seeing you here, reminds me, Mr. Giles, that on the day before that on which I was called away so hurriedly, I executed, at the request of your good mistress, a small commission in your favour. Just step into this corner a moment, will you?' Mr. Giles walked into the corner with much importance, and some wonder, and was ho@noured with a short whispering conference with the doctor, on the termination of which, he made a great many bows, and retired with steps of unusual stateliness. The subject matter of this conference was not disclosed in the parlour, but the kitchen was speedily enlightened con@cerning it for Mr. Giles walked straight thi@ther, and having called for a mug of ale, an@nounced, with an air  which was highly effective, that it had pleased his mistress, in consideration of his gallant beha@viour on the occasion of that attempted robbery, to deposit, in the local savings-bank, the sum of  for his sole use and benefit. At this, the two women-servants lifted up their hands and eyes, and supposed that Mr. Giles,  pulling out his shirt-frill, replied, 'No, no' and that if they observed that he was at all haughty to his inferiors, he would thank them to tell him so. And then he made a great many other remarks, no less illustrative of his humility, which were received with equal favour and applause, and were, withal, as original@ and as much to the purpose, as the remarks of great men commonly are. Above stairs, the remainder of the evening passed cheerfully away@ for the doctor was in high spirits@ and however fatigued or thought@ful Harry Maylie might have been at first, he was not proof against the worthy gentleman's good humour, which displayed itself in a great variety of sallies and professional recollections, and an abundance of small jokes, which struck Oliver as being the drollest things he had ever heard, and caused him to laugh proportionately@ to the evident satisfaction of the doctor, who laughed immoderately at himself, and made Harry laugh almost as heartily, by the very force of sympathy. So, they were as pleasant a party as, under the circumstances, they could well have been@ and it was late before they retired, with light and thankful hearts, to take that rest of which, after the doubt and suspense they had recently undergone, they stood @@@much in need. Oliver rose next morning, in better heart, and went about his usu@@@@a@l@ occupations, with more hope and pleasure than he had known for many days. The birds were once more hung out, to sing, in their old places@ and the sweetest wild flowers that could be found, were once more gathered to gladden Rose with their  melancholy which had seemed to the sad eyes of the anxious boy to hang, for days past, over every object, beauti@ful as@@@@@ all were, was dispelled by magic. The dew seemed to sparkle more brightly on the green leaves@ the air to rustle among them with a sweeter music@ and the sky itself to look more blue and bright. Such is the influence which the condition of our own thoughts, exer@cise, even over the appearance of external ob@jects. Men who look on nature, and their fellow-men, and cry that all is dark and gloomy, are in the right but the sombre colours are reflections from their own jaundiced eyes and hearts. The real hues are delicate, and and need a clearer vision. It is worthy of remark, and Oliver did not fail to note it at the time, that his morning expedi@tions were no longer made alone. Harry May@lie, after the very first morning when he met Oliver coming laden home, was seized with such a passion for flowers, and displayed such a taste in their arrangement, as left his young companion far behind. If Oliver were behind@hand in these respects,respects, he knew where the best were to be found@ and morning after morning they scoured the country together, and brought home the fairest that blossomed. The window of the young lady's chamber was opened now@ for she loved to feel the rich sum@mer air stream@ in, and revive her with its fresh@ness but there always stood in water, just inside the lattice, one particular little bunch, which was made up with great care, every morning. Oliver could not help noticing that the withered flowers were never thrown away, although the little vase was regularly reple@nished nor, could he help observing, that when@ever the doctor came into the garden, he inva@riably cast his eyes up to that particular corner, and nodded his head most expressively, as he set forth on his morning's walk. Pending these observations, the days were flying by@ and Rose was  recovering. Nor did Oliver's time hang heavy @@on his hands, although the young lady had not yet left her chamber, and there were no evening walks, save now and then, for a short distance, with Mrs. Maylie. He applied himself, with redou@bled assiduity, to the instructions of the white-headed old gentleman, and laboured so hard that his quick progress surprised even himself. It was while he was engaged in this pursuit, that he was greatly startled and distressed by a most unexpected occurrence. The little room in which he was accustomed to sit, when busy at his books, was on the ground-floor, at the back of the house. It was quite a cottage-room, with a lattice-windo@w around which were clusters of jessamine and honeysuckle, that crept over the casement, and filled the place with their delicious perfume. It looked into a garden, whence a wicket-gate opened into a small paddock all beyond, was fine meadow-land and wood. There was no other dwelling near, in that direction@ and the prospect it commanded was very extensive. One beautiful evening, when the first shades of twilight were beginning to settle upon the earth, Oliver sat at this window, intent upon his books. @He had been poring over them for some time and, as the day had been uncom@monly sultry, and he had exerted himself a great deal, it is no disparagement to the authors, who@ever they may have been, to say, that gradually and by slow degrees, he fell asleep. There is a kind of sleep that steals upon us sometimes, which, while it holds the body pri@soner, does not free the mind from a sense of things about it, and enable it to ramble at its pleasure. So far as an overpowering heaviness, a prostration of strength, and an utter inability to control our thoughts or power of motion, can be called sleep, this is it and yet, we have a consciousness of all that is going on about us, and@@@@, if we  which are really spoken, or sounds which really exist at the mo@ment, accommodate themselves with surprising readiness to our visions, until reality and ima@gination become so strangely blended that it is afterwards almost@@ matter of impossibility to separate the two. Nor is this, the most striking phenomenon incidental to such a state. It i@s  fact, that although our senses of touch and sight be for the time dead, yet our sleeping thoughts, and the visionary scenes that pass before us, will be influence@d and materially influenced, by the _mere silent presence_ of some external object@ which may not have been near us when we closed our eyes@ and of whose vicinity we have had no waking conscious@ness. Oliver knew, perfectly well, that he was in his own little room@ that his books were lying on the table before him@@@@@ that the sweet air was stirring among the creeping plants outside. And yet he was asleep. Suddenly, the scene changed@ the air became close and confined@ and he thought, with a glow of terror, that he was in the Jew's house again. There sat the hideous old man, in his accustomed corner, pointing at him, and whispering to another man, with his face averted, who sat beside him. 'Hush, my dear!' he thought he heard the Jew say 'it is h@e, sure enough. Co@me away.' 'He!' the other man seemed to answer 'could I mistake him, think you@? If a crow@@d of ghosts were to put themselves into his exact shape, and he stood amongst them, there is something that would tell me how to point him out. If you buried him fifty feet deep, and took me across his  know, if there wasn't a mark above it, that he lay buried  man seemed to say this, with such dread@ful hatred, that Oliver awoke with the fear, and started up. Good Heaven! what was that, which sent the blood tingling to his heart, and deprived him of his  and of power to move! There--there--at the window--close before him--so close, that he could have almost touched him before he started back with his eyes peering into the room, and meeting his there stood the Jew! And beside him, white with rage@ or fear, or both, were the scowling features of th@@@e@@ man who had accosted him in the inn-yard. It was but an instant, a glance, a flash, before his eyes@ and they were gone. But they had recognised him, and he them and their look was as firmly impressed upon his memory, as if it had been deeply carved in stone, and set be@fore him from his birth. He stood transfixed for a moment@@@@@ then, leaping from the win@dow into the garden, called loudly for help. Chapter  the inmates of the house, attracted by Oliver's cries, hurried to the spot from which they proceeded, they found him, pale and agitated, pointing in the direction of the meadows behind the house, and scarcely able to articula@te the words, 'The Jew! the Jew!' Mr. Giles was at a loss to comprehend what this outcry meant but Harry Maylie, whose perceptions were something quicker, and who had heard Oliver's history from his mother, understood it at once. 'What direction did he take@?' he asked, catching up a heavy stick which was standing in a corner. 'That,' replied Oliver, pointing out the course the man had taken 'I missed them @@@@in an instant.' 'Then, they are in the ditch!' said Harry. 'Follow! And keep as near me, as you can.' So saying, he sprang over the hedge, and darted off with a speed which rendered it matter of ex@ceeding difficulty for the others to keep near him. Giles followed as well as he could@ and Oliver followed too and in the course of a minute or two, Mr. Losberne, who had been out walking, and just then returned, tumbled over the hedge after them, and picking himself up with more agility than he could have been supposed to possess, struck into the same course at no con@temptible speed, shouting all the while, most prodigiously, to know what was the matter. On they all went nor stopped they once to breathe, until the leader, striking off into an angle of the field indicated by Oliver, began to search, narrowly, the ditch and hedge adjoining which afforded time for the remainder of the party to come up@ and for Oliver to communi@cate to Mr. Losberne the circumstances that had led to so vigorous a pursuit. The search was all in vain. There were not even the traces of recent footsteps, to be seen. They stood now, on the summit of a little hill, commanding the open fields in every direction for three or four miles. There was the village in the hollow on the left but, in order to gain that, after pursuing the track Oliver had pointed out, the men must have made a circuit of open ground, which it was impossible they could have accomplished in so short a time. A thick wood skirted the meadow-land in another direction but they could not have gained that covert for the same reason. 'It must have been a dream, Oliver,' said Harry@ 'Oh no, indeed, sir,' replied Oliver, shud@dering at the very recollection of the old wretch's countenance 'I saw him too plainly for that. I saw them both, as plainly as I see you now.' 'Who was the other?' inquired Harry and Mr. Losberne, together. 'The very same man @@@@@I  who came so suddenly upon me at the inn,' said Oliver. 'We had our eyes fixed full upon each other@ and I could swear to him.' 'They took this way?' demanded Harry 'are you  I am that the men were at the window,' replied Oliver, pointing down, as he spoke, to the hedge which divided the cottage-garden from the meadow. 'The tall man leaped over, just there and the Jew, running a few paces to the right, crept through that gap.' The two gentlemen watched Oliver's earnest face, as he spoke, and looking from him to each other, seemed to feel satisfied of the accuracy of what he said. Still, in no direction were there any appearances of the trampling of men in hurried flight. The grass was long@ but it was trodden down nowhere, save where their own feet had crushed it. The sides and brinks of the ditches were of damp clay@ but in no one place could they discern the print of men's shoes, or the slightest mark which would indi@cate that any feet had pressed the ground for hours before. 'This is strange!' said Harry. 'Strange?' echoed the doctor. 'Blathers and Duff, themselves, could make nothing of it.' Notwithstanding the evidently  of their search, @search, they did not desist until the coming on of night rendered its further prosecution hopeles@s and even then, they gave it up with reluctance. Giles was dis@@patched to the different ale-houses in the vil@lage, furnished with the best description Oliver could give of the appearance and dress of the strangers. Of these, the Jew was, at all events, sufficiently remarkable to be remembered, sup@posing he had been seen drinking, or loitering about but Giles returned without any intelligence, calculated to dispel or lessen the mystery. On the next day, f@r@esh search was made, and the inquiries renewed@ but with no better success. On the day following, Oliver and Mr. Maylie repaired to the market-town, in the hope of seeing or hearing something of the men there but this effort was equally fruitless@@@. After a few days, the affair began to be forgotten,@@@@@ as most affairs are, when wonder, having no fresh food to support it, dies away of it@self. Meanwhile, Rose was rapidly recovering. She had left her room@ was able to go out@ and mix@ing once more with the family, carried joy into the hearts of all. But, although this happy change had a visible effect on the little circle@ and although cheerful voices and merry laughter were once more heard in the cottage@ there was@ at times, an un@wonted restraint upon some there even upon Rose herself which Oliver could not fail to re@mark. Mrs. Maylie and her son were often closeted together for a long time@ and more than once Rose appeared with traces of tears upon her face. After Mr. Losberne had fixed a day for his departure to Chertsey, these symptoms increase@d and it became evident that some@thing was in progress which affected the peace of the young lady, and of somebody else be@sides. At length, one morning, when Rose was alone in the breakfast-parlour, Harry Maylie entered@ and, with some hesitation, begged permission to speak with her for a few moments. 'A few--a very few--will suffice, Rose,' said the young man, drawing his chair towards her. 'What I shall have to say, has already presented itself to your mind the most che@rished hopes of my heart are not unknown to you, though from my lips you have no@@@@t heard them stated.' Rose had been very pale from the moment of his entrance@ @@@@bu@t that might have been the effect of her recent illness. She merely bowed@ and bending over some plants that stood near, waited in silence for him to pro@ceed. 'I--I--ought to have left here, before,' said Harry. 'You should, indeed,' replied Rose. 'For@give me for saying so, but I wish you had.' 'I was brought here, by the most dreadful and agonising of all apprehensions,' said the young man 'the fear of losing the one dear being on whom my every wish and hope are @@fixed. You had been dying trembling be@tween earth and heaven. We know that when the young, the beautiful, and good, are visited with sickness, their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting reste  that the best and fairest of our kind, too often fade in blooming.' There were tears in the eyes of the gentle girl, as these words were spoken@ and when one fell upon the flower over which she bent, and glis@tened brightly in its cup, making it more beau@tiful, it seemed as though the outpourin@g of her fresh young heart,  the loveliest things in nature.  continued the young man, pas@sionately, 'a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of God's own angels, fluttered be@tween life and death. Oh! who could hope, when the distant world to which she was akin, half opened to her view, that she would return to the sorrow and calamity of this! Rose, Rose, to know that you were passing away like some soft@ shadow, which a light from above, casts upon the earth to have no hope that you would be spared to those who linger here hardly to know @a reason why you should be to feel that you belonged to that bright sphere whither so many  have winged their early flight and yet to pray, amid all these consolations, that you might be restored to those who loved you--these were distractions almost too great to bear. They were mine, by day and night@ and with them, came such a rushing torrent of fears, and appre@hensions, and selfish regrets, lest you should die, and never know how devotedly I loved you, as almost bore down sense and reason in its course. You recovered. Day by day, and almost hour by hour, some drop of health came back, and mingling with the spent and feeble stream of life which circulated languidly within you, swelled it again to a high and rushing tide. I have watched you change almost from death, to life, with eyes  their@@@@ eagerness and deep affection. Do not tell me that you wish I had lost this for it has softened my heart to all mankind.' 'I did not mean that,' said Rose, weeping only wish you had left here, that you might have turned to high and noble pursuits again to pursuits well worthy of you.' 'There is no pursuit more worthy of me more worthy of the highest nature that exists than the struggle to win such a heart as yours,' said the young man, taking her hand. 'Rose, my own dear Rose! For years--for years--I have loved you@ hoping to win my way to fame, and then co@me proudly home and tell you it had been pursued only for you to share thinking, in my day@dreams, how I would remind you, in that happy moment, of the many silent tokens I had given of a boy's attachment, and  claim your hand, as@@@ in redemption of some old mute con@tract that had been sealed between us! That time has not arrived but here, with not fame won, and no young vision realised, I offe@@r you the heart so long your own, and stake my all upon the words with which you greet the offer.' 'Your behaviour has ever been kind and noble.' said Rose, mastering the emotions by which she was agitated. 'As you believe that I am not insensible or ungrateful, so hear my answer.' 'It is, that I may endeavour to deserve you @it is, dear Rose?' 'It is,' replied Rose, 'that you must en@deavour to forget me not as your old and dearly-attached companion, for that would wound me deeply@ but, as the object of your love. Look into the world@ think how many hearts you would b@@e@@@@@@ proud to gain, are there. Confide some other passion to me, if you will@@@@@ I will be the truest, warmest, and most faithful friend you have.' There was a pause, during which, Rose, who had covered her face with one hand, gave free vent to her tears. Harry still retained the other. 'And your reasons, Rose,' he said, at length, in a low voice 'your reasons for this  have a right to know them,' rejoined Rose. 'You can say nothing to alter my reso@lution. It is a duty that I must perform. I owe it, alike to others, and to myself.' 'To yourself?@@' @'Yes, Harry. I owe it to myself, that I, a friendless, portionless, girl, with a blight upon my name, should not give  reason to suspect that I had sordidly yielded to your first passion, and fastened myself, a clog, @@on all your hopes and projects. I owe it to you and yours, to prevent you from opposing, in the warmth of your generous nature, this great ob@stacle to your progress in the world.' 'If your inclinations chime with your sense of duty--' Harry began. 'They do not,' replied Rose, colouring deeply. 'Then you return my love?' said Harry. 'Say but that, dear Rose say but that@ and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment!' 'If I could have done so, without doing heavy wrong to him I loved,' rejoined Rose, 'I could have--' 'Have received this declaration very dif@ferently?' said  not conceal that from me, at least, Rose.' 'I could,' said Rose. 'Stay!' she added, disengaging her hand, 'why should we prolong this painful interview? Most painful to me, and yet productive of lasting happiness, notwith@standing for it _will_ be happiness to know that I once held the high place in your regard which I now occupy, and every triumph you achieve in life will animate me with new fortitude and firmness. Farewell, Harry! @@@@As we have met to-day, we meet no more but in other re@lations than those in which this conversation @@@@@@have placed us, we may be long and hap@pily entwined and may every blessing that the prayers of a true and earnest heart can call down from the  truth and sincerity, cheer and prosper you!' 'Another word, Rose,' said Harry. 'Your reason in your own words. From your own lips, let me hear it!' 'The prospect before you,' answered Rose, firmly, 'is a brilliant one. All the honours to which great talents and powerful connections can help men in public life, are in store for you. But those connections are proud@ and I will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the mother who gave me life@ nor bring disgrace or failure @@on the son of her who has so well supplied that mother's place. In a word,' said the young lady, turning away, as her tem@porary firmness forsook her, 'there is a stain upon my name, which the world visits on inno@cent heads. I will carry it into no blood but my own@ and the reproach shall rest alone on me.' 'One word more, Rose. Dearest Rose! one more!' cried Harry, throwing himself before her. 'If I had been less--less fortunate,@@@ the world would call it--if some obscure and peaceful life had been my destiny--if I had been poor, sick, helpless--would you have turned from me then? Or has my probable advancement to riches and honour, given this scruple birth?' 'Do not press me to reply,' answered Rose. 'The question does not arise, and never will. It is unfair, almost unkind, to urge it.' 'If your answer be what I almost dare to hope it is,' retorted Harry, 'it will shed a gleam of happiness upon my lonely way, and light th@@ before me. It is not an idle thing to do so much, by the utterance of a few brief words, for one who loves you beyond all else. Oh, Rose in the name of my ardent and enduring attachment@ in the name of all I have suffered for you, and all you doom me to undergo@ answer me this one question!' 'Then, if your lot had been differently cast,' rejoined Rose 'if you had been even a little, but not so far, above me if I could have been a help and comfort to you in @any humble scene of peace and retirement, and not a blot and drawback in ambitious and distinguished crowds@ I should have been spared this trial. I have every reason to be happy, very happy, now but then, Harry, I own I should have been happier.' Busy recollections of old hopes, cherished as a girl, long ago, crowded into the mind of Rose, while making this avowal but they brought tears with them, as old hopes will when they come back withered@ and they relieved her. 'I cannot help this weakness, and it makes my purpose stronger,' said Rose, extending her hand. 'I must leave you now, indeed.' 'I ask one promise,' said Harry. 'Once, and only once more,--say within a year, but it may be much sooner,-@-I may speak to you again on this subject, for the last time.' 'Not to press me to alter my right determi@nation,' replied Rose, with a melancholy smile 'it will be useless.' 'No,' said Harry 'to hear you repeat it, if you will--finally repeat it! I will lay at your feet, whatever of station of fortune I may pos@sess@ and if you still adhere to your present resolution, will not seek, by word or act, to change it.' 'Then let it be so,' rejoined Rose 'it is but one pang the more, and by that time I may be enabled to bear it better.' She extended her hand again. But the young man caught her to his bosom@ and imprinting one kiss @@on her beautiful forehead, hurried from the room. Chapter XXXV. Is A    you are resolved to be my travel@ling companion this morning eh?' said the doctor, as Harry Maylie joined him and Oliver at the breakfast-table. 'Why, you are not in the same mind or intention two half-hours together!' 'You will tell me a different tale one of these days,' said Harry, colouring without any perceptible reason. 'I hope I may have good cause to do so,' replied Mr. Losberne 'though I confess I don't think I shall. But yesterday morning you had made up your mind, in a great hurry, to stay here, and to accompany your mother, like a dutiful son, to the sea-side. Before noon, you announce that you are going to do me the honour of accompanying me as far as I go, on your road to London. And at night, you urge me, with great mystery, to start before the ladies are stirring the consequence of which is, that young Oliver here is pinned down to his break@fast when he ought to be ranging the meadows after botanical phenomena of all kinds. Too bad, isn't it, Oliver?' 'I should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and Mr. Maylie went away, sir,' rejoined Oliver. 'That's a fine fellow,' said the doctor 'you shall co@me and see me when you return. But, to speak seriously, Harry@ has any communica@tion from the great nobs produced this sudden anxiety on your part to be gone?' 'The great nobs,' replied Harry, 'under which designation, I presume, you include my most stately uncle, have not communicated with me at all, since I have been here@ nor, at this time of the year, is it likely that anything would occur to render necessary my immediate attendance among them.' 'Well,' said the doctor, 'you are a queer fellow. But of course they will get you into parliament at the election before Christmas, and these sudden shiftings and changes are no bad preparation for political life. There's something in that. Good training is always de@sirable, whether the race be for place, cup, or sweepstakes.' Harry Maylie looked as if he could have followed up this short dialogue by one or two remarks that would have staggered the doctor not a little@ but he contented himself with say@ing, 'We shall see,' and pursued the subject no farther. The post-chaise drove up to the door shortly afterwards@ and Giles coming in for the luggage, the good doctor bustled out, to see it packed@@@@@. 'Oliver,' said Harry Maylie, in a low voice, 'let me speak a word with you.' Oliver walked into the window-recess to which Mr. Maylie beckoned him much sur@prised at the mixture of sadness and bois@terous spirits, which his whole behaviour dis@played. 'You can write well now?' said Harry, lay@ing his hand upon his arm. 'I hope so, sir,' replied Oliver. 'I shall not be at home again, perhaps for some time I wish you would write to me--say once a fort-night@ every alternate Monday@ to the General Post Office in London. Will  certainly, sir I shall be proud to do it,' exclaimed Oliver, greatly delighted with the commission. 'I should like to know how--how my mo@ther and Miss Maylie are,' said the young man 'and you can fill up a sheet by telling me what walks you take, and what you talk about, and whether she--they, I mean--seem happy and quite well. You understand me?' 'Oh! quite, sir, quite,' replied Oliver. 'I would rather you did not mention it to them,' said Harry, hurrying over his words 'because it might make my mother anxious to write to me oftener, and it is a trouble and worry to her. Let it be a secret between you and me@ and mind you tell me every@thing! I depend upon you.' Oliver, quite elated and honoured by a sense of his importance, faithfully promised to be secret and explicit in his communica@tions@@@@. Mr. Maylie took leave of him, with many @a@@@@ssurances of his regard and pro@tection. The doctor was in the chaise Giles who, it had been arranged, should be left behind held the door open in his hand and the women-servants were in the garden, looking on. Harry cast one slight glance at the latticed window, and jumped into the carriage. 'Drive on!' he cried, 'hard, fast, full gallop! Nothing short of flying will keep pace with me, to-day.' 'Halloa!' cried the doctor, letting down the front glass in a great hurry, and shout@ing to the postillion 'something very short of flying will keep pace with _me_. Do you hear?' Jingling and clattering, till distance rendered its noise inaudible, and its rapid progress only perceptible to the eye, the vehicle wound its way along the road, almost hidden in a cloud of dust@ now wholly disappearing, and now becoming visible again, as intervening objects, or the intricacies of the way, per@mitted. It was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen, that the gazers dispersed. And there was one looker-on, who remained with eyes fixed upon the spot where the car@riage had disappeared, long after it was many miles away for, behind the white curtain which had shrouded her from view when Harry raised his eyes towards the window, sat Rose herself. 'He seems in high spirits and happy,' she said, at length. 'I feared for a time he might be otherwise. I was mistaken. I am very, very glad.' Tears are signs of gladness as well as grief but those which coursed down Rose's face, as she sat pensively at the window, still gazing in the same direction, seemed to tell more of sorrow than of joy. Chapter   sat in the workhouse parlour, with his eyes moodily fixed on the cheerless grate, whence, as it was summer time, no brighter gleam proceeded, than the reflection of certain sickly rays of the sun, which were sent back from its cold and shining surface. A paper fly-cage dangled from the ceiling, to which he occasionally raised his eyes in gloomy thought and, as the heedless insects hovered round the gaudy net-work, Mr. Bumble would heave a deep sigh, while a more gloomy shadow over@spread his countenance. Mr. Bumble was meditating@@@@@ it might be that the insects brought to mind, some painful passage in his own past life. Nor was Mr. Bumble's gloom the only thing calculated to awaken a pleasing melancholy in the bosom of a spectator. There were not wanting other appearances, and those closely connected with his own person, which an@nounced that a great change had taken place in the position of his affairs. The laced coat, and the cocked ha@t@ where were they? He still wore knee-breeches, and dark cotton stockings on his nether limbs@ but they were not _the_ breeches. The coat was wide-skirted@ and in that respect like _the_ coat, but, oh@ how different! The mighty cocked hat was replaced by a mo@dest round one. Mr. Bumble was no longer a beadle. There are some promotions in life, which, independent of the more substantial rewards they offer, require peculiar value and dignity from the coats and waistcoats connected with them. A field-marshal has his uniform@ a bishop his silk apron@ a counsellor his silk gown@ a beadle his cocked hat. Strip the bishop of his apron, or the beadle of his@@@@@d lace@ what are they@? Men. Mere men. Dignity, and even holiness too, some@times, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine. Mr. Bumble had married Mrs. Corney, and was master of the workhouse. Another beadle had co@me into power@@@@. On him the cocked hat, gold-laced coat, and staff, had all thre@e descended. 'And to-morrow two months it was done!' said Mr. Bumble, with a sigh. 'It seems a age.' Mr. Bumble might have meant that he had concentrated a whole existence of happiness into the short space of eight weeks but the sigh--there was a vast deal of meaning in the sigh. 'I sold myself,' said Mr. Bumble, pursuing the same train of re@lection, 'for six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot@ with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money. I went very reason@able. Cheap, dirt cheap!' 'Cheap!' cried a shrill voice in Mr. Bumble's ear 'you would have been dear at any price and dear enough I paid for you, Lord above knows that!' Mr. Bumble turned, and encountered the face of his interesting consort, who, imperfectly com@prehending the few words she had overheard of his complaint, had hazarded the foregoing remark at a venture. 'Mrs. Bumble, ma'am!' said Mr. Bumble, with a sentimental sternness. 'Well!' cried the lady. 'Have the goodness to look at me,' said Mr. Bumble, fixing his eyes upon her. If she stands such a eye as that,' said Mr. Bumble to himself, 'she can stand anything. It is a eye I never knew to fail with paupers@@@@. If it fails with her, my power is gone.' Whether an exceedingly small expansion of eye be sufficient to quell paupers, who, being lightly fed, are in no very high condition@ or whether the late Mrs. Corney was particularly proof against eagle glances@ are matters of opinion. The matter of fact, is, that the matron was in no way overpowered by Mr.  but, on the contrary, treated it with great disdain, and even raised a laugh thereat, which sounded as though it were genuine. On hearing this most unexpected sound, Mr. Bumble looked, first incredulous, and after@wards@ amazed. He then relapsed into his former state nor did he rouse himself until his attention was again awakened by the voice of his partner. 'Are you going to sit snoring there, all da@y?@' inquired Mrs. Bumble. 'I am going to sit here, as long as I think proper, ma'am,' rejoined Mr. Bumble 'and although I was _not_ snoring, I shall snore, gape, sneeze, laugh, or cry, as the humour strikes me@ such being my prerogative.' '_Your_ prerogative!' sneered Mrs. Bumble, with ineffable contempt. 'I said the word, ma'am,@' s@@aid Mr. Bumble. 'The prerogative of a man is to command.' 'And what's the prerogative of a woman, in the name of Goodness?' cried the relict of @Mr. Corney@ deceased. 'To obey, ma'am,' thundered Mr. Bumble. 'Your late unfortunate husband should have taught it you@ and then, perhaps, he might have been alive now. I wish he was, poor man!' Mrs. Bumble, seeing at a glance, that the deci@sive moment had now arrived, and that a blow struck for the mastership on one side or other, must necessarily be final and conclusive, no sooner heard this allusion to the dead and gone, than she dropped into a chair, and with a loud scream@ that Mr. Bumble was a hard-hearted brute, fell into a paroxysm of tears. But, tears were not the things to find their way to Mr. Bumble's soul his heart was water@proof. Like washable beaver hats@ that improve with rain, his nerves were rendered stouter and more vigorous, by showers of tears, which, being tokens of weakness, and so far tacit admissions of his own power, pleased and exalted him. He eyed his good lady with looks of great satis@faction, and begged, in an encouraging manner, that she should cry her hardest@ the exercise @@@being looked upon, by the faculty, as strongly conducive to health. 'It opens the lungs, washes the countenance, exercises the eyes, and softens down the tem@per,' said Mr. Bumble. 'So cry away.' As he discharged himself of this pleasantry, Mr. Bumble took his hat from a peg, and put@ting it on, rather rakishly, on one side, as a man might@@, who felt he had asserted his supe@riority in a becoming manner, thrust his hands into his pockets, and sauntered towards the door, with much ease and waggishness depicted in his whole appearance. Now, Mrs. Corney that was, had tried the tears, because they were less troublesome than a manual assault but, she was quite prepared to make trial of the latter mode of proceeding, as Mr. Bumble was not long in discovering. The first proof he experienced of the fact, was conveyed in a hollow sound, immediately suc@ceeded by the sudden flying off of his hat to the opposite end of the room. This preliminary proceeding laying bare his head, the expert lady, clasping him tightly round the throat with one hand, inflicted a shower of blows dealt with singular vigour and dexterity upon it with the other. This done, she created a little variety by scratching his face, and tearing his hair @@@@@and, having, by this time, inflicted as much punishment as she deemed necessary for the offence, she pushed him over a chair, which was luckily well situated for the purpose@ and defied him to talk about his prerogative again, if he dared. 'Get up!' said Mrs. Bumble, in a voice of command. 'And take yourself away from here, unless you want me to do something desperate.' Mr. Bumble rose with a very rueful counte@nance@ wondering much what something des@perate might be@@@@@. Picking up his hat, he looked towards the door. 'Are you going?' demanded Mrs. Bumble. 'Certainly, my dear, certainly,' rejoined Mr. Bumble, making a quicker motion towards the door. 'I didn't intend to--I'm going, my dear! You are so very violent, that really I--' At this instant, Mrs. Bumble stepped hastily forward to replace the carpet, which had been kicked up in the scuf@@fle. Mr. Bumble im@mediately darted out of the room, without be@stowing another thought on his unfinished sen@tenc@e leaving the late Mrs. Corney in full pos@session of the field. Mr. Bumble was fairly taken by surprise, and fairly beaten. He had a decided  no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty@ and, conse@quently, was it is needless to say a coward. This is by no means a disparagement to his character for many official personages, who are held in high respect and admiration, are the victims of similar infirmities. The remark is made, indeed, rather in his favour than other@wise, and with @@a view of impressing the reader with a just sense of his qualifications for office. But, the measure of his degradation was not yet full. After making a tour of the house, and thinking, for the first time, that the poor-laws really were too hard @@on people@ and that men who ran away from their wives, leaving them chargeable to the parish, ought, in justice@ to be visited with no punishment at all, but rather rewarded as meritorious individuals who had suffered much@ Mr. Bumble came to a room where some of the female paupers were usually employed in washing the parish linen@ @@@@when@@ the sound of voices in conversation, now proceeded. 'Hem!' said Mr. Bumble, summoning up all his native dignity. 'These women at least shall continue to respect the prerogative. Hallo! hallo there@! What do you mean by this noise, you hussies?' With these words, Mr. Bumble opened the door, and walked in with a very fierce and angry manner@ which was at once exchanged for a most humiliated and cowering air, as his eyes unex@pectedly rested on the form of his lady wife. 'My dear,' said Mr. Bumble, 'I didn't know you were here.' 'Didn't know I was here!' repeated Mrs. Bumble. 'What do _you_ do here?' 'I thought they were talking rather too much to be doing their work properly, my dear,' replied Mr. Bumble@ glancing distractedly at a couple of old women at the wash-tub, who were comparing notes of admiration at the work@house-master's humility. '_You_ thoug@ht they were talking too much?' said Mrs. Bumble. 'What business is it of yours?' 'Why, my dear--' urged Mr. Bumble@ sub@missively. 'What business is it of yours?' demanded Mrs. Bumble, again. 'It's very true, you're matron here, my dear,' submitted Mr. Bumble 'but I thought you mightn't be in the way just then.' 'I'll tell you what, Mr. Bumble,' returned his lady. 'We don't want any of your inter@ference@@@@. You're a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that don't concern you, making everybody in the house laugh, the moment your back is turned, and making your@self look like a fool every hour in the day. Be off co@me!' Mr. Bumble, seeing with excruciating feel@ings, the delight of the two old paupers, who were tittering together most rapturously, hesi@tated for an instant. Mrs. Bumble, whose patience brooked no delay, caught up a bowl of soap-suds, and motioning him towards the door, ordered him instantly to depart, on pain of receiving the contents upon his portly person. What could Mr. Bumble do? He looked dejectedly round, and slunk away and, as he reached the door, the titterings of the paupers broke into a shrill chuckle of irrepressible de@light. It wanted but this. He was degraded in their eyes he had lost caste and station be@fore the very paupers he had fallen from all the height and pomp of beadleship, to the lowest depth of the most snubbed hen-peckery. 'All in two months!' said Mr. Bumble, filled with dismal thoughts. 'Two months! No@ more than two months ago, I was not only my own master, but everybody else's, so far as the porochial workhouse was concerned, and now!--' It was too much. Mr. Bumble boxed the ears of the boy who opened the gate for@ him for he had reached the portal in his reveri@@e and walked, distractedly, into the street. @@@He walked up one street, and down another, until exercise had abated the first passion of his grief@ and then the revulsion of feeling made him thirsty. He passed a great many public-houses but, at length paused before one in a by-way, whose parlour, as he gathered from a hasty peep over the blinds, was deserted, save by one solitary customer. It began to rain, heavily, at the moment@@@@. This determined him. Mr. Bumble stepped in@ and ordering something to drink, as he passed the bar, entered the apartment into which he had looked from the street. The man who was seated there, was tall and dark, and wore a large cloak. He had the air of a stranger@ and seemed, by a certain haggard@ness in his look, as well as by the dusty soils on his dress, to have travelled some distance. He eyed Bumble askance, as he entered, but scarcely deigned to nod his head in acknow@ledgment of his salutation. Mr. Bumble had quite dignity enough for two@ supposing even that the stranger had been more familiar@ so he drank his gin-and-water in silence, and read the paper with great show of pomp and circumstance. It so happened, however as it will happen very often, when men fall into company under such circumstances that Mr. Bumble felt, every now and then, a powerful inducement, which he could not resist, to steal a look at the stranger and that whenever he did so, he withdrew his eyes, in some confusion, to find that the stranger was at that moment stealing a look at him. Mr. Bumble's awkwardness was enhanced by the very remarkable expression of the stranger's eye, which was keen and bright, but shadowed by a scowl of distrust and suspicion, unlike any@thing he had ever observed before, and@@@@@ repulsive to behold. When they had encountered each other's glance several times in this way, the stranger, in a harsh, deep voice, broke silence. 'Were you looking for me,' he said, 'when you peered in at the window?' 'Not that I am aware of, unless you're Mr. --' Here Mr. Bumble stopped short@ for he was curious to know the stranger's name, and thought@ in his impatience, he might supply the blank. 'I see you were not,' said the stranger@ an expression of quiet sarcasm playing about his mouth 'or you you@@ have known my name. You don't know it@@@@. I @would recommend you not to  meant no harm, young man,' observed Mr. Bumble, majestically. 'And have done none,' said the stranger. Another silence succeeded this short dialogue@ which was again broken by the stranger. 'I have seen you before, I think?' said he. 'You were differently dressed at that time, and I only passed you in the street, but I should know you again. You were beadle here, once@ were you not?' 'I was,' said Mr. Bumble, in some surprise 'porochial beadle.' 'Just so,' rejoined the other, nodding his head. 'It was in that character I saw you. What are you now?' 'Master of the workhouse,' rejoined Mr. Bumble, slowly and impressively, to check any undue familiarity the stranger might otherwise assume. 'Master of the workhouse, young man!' 'You have the same eye to your own interest, that you always@@@@@ had, I doubt not?' re@sumed the stranger, looking keenly into Mr. Bumble's eyes, as he raised them in astonish@ment at the question. 'Don't scruple to an@swer freely, man. I know you pretty well, you see.' 'I suppose, a married man,' replied Mr. Bumble, shading his eyes with his hand, and surveying the stranger, from head to foot, in evident perplexity, 'is not more averse to turn@ing an honest penny when he can, than a single one. Porochial officers are not so well paid that they can afford to refuse any little extra fee, when it co@mes to them in a civil and proper manner.' The stranger smiled, and nodded his head again as much @@@to   not mistaken his man then rang the bell. 'Fill this glass again,' he said, handing Mr. Bumble's empty tumbler to the landlord. 'Let it be strong and hot. You like it so, I suppose?' 'Not too strong,' replied Mr. Bumble, with a delicate cough. 'You understand what that means, land@lord!' said the stranger, drily. The host smiled, disappeared, and shortly afterwards returned with a steaming jorum@ of which, the first gulp brought the water into Mr. Bumble's eyes. 'Now listen to me,' said the stranger, after closing the door and window. 'I came down to this place, to-day, to find you out@ and, by one of those chances which the devil throws in the way of his friends sometimes, you walked into the very room I was sitting in, while you were uppermost in my mind. I want some in@formation from you. @@I don't ask you to give it for nothing, slight as it is. Put up that, to begin with.' As he spoke, he pushed a couple of sovereigns across the table to his companion, carefully, as though unwilling that the chinking of money should be heard without@@@. When Mr. Bum@ble had scrupulously examined the coins, to see that they were genuine, and put them up, with much satisfaction, in his waistcoat-pocket, he went on 'Carry your memory back--let me see--twelve years, last winter.' 'It's a long time,' said Mr. Bumble. 'Very good. I've done it.' 'The scene, the workhouse.' 'Good!' 'And the time, night.' 'Yes.' 'And the place, the crazy hole, wherever it was, in which miserable drabs brought forth the life and health so often denied to themselves--gave birth to puling children for the parish to rear@ and hid their shame, rot 'em@ in the grave!' 'The lying-in room, I  Mr. Bumble, not quite following the stran@ger's excited description. 'Yes,' said the stranger. 'A boy was born there.' 'A many boys,' observed Mr. Bumble, shaking his head, despondingly. 'A murrain on the young devils!' cried the  of one@ a meek-looking, pale-faced bo@@y, who was apprenticed down here, to a coffin-maker--I wish he had made his coffin, and screwed his body in it--and who afterwards ran away to London, as it was supposed. 'Why, you mean Oliver! Young Twist!' said Mr. Bumble 'I remember him, of course. There wasn't a obstinater young rascal--' 'It's not of him I want to hear I've heard enough of him,' said the stranger, stopping Mr. Bumble in the @@@@@outset of a tirade on the subject of poor Oliver's vices. 'It's of a woman@ the hag that nursed his mother. Where is she?' 'Where is she?' said Mr. Bumble, whom the gin-and-water had rendered facetious. 'It would be hard to tell. There's no midwifery there, whichever place she's gone to so I suppose she's out ofemployment, any@way.' 'What do you mean?' demanded the stran@ger, sternly. 'That she died last winter,' rejoined Mr. Bumble. The man looked fixedly at him when he had given this information, and although he did not withdraw his eyes for some time afterwards, his gaze gradually became vacant and abstracted, and he seemed lost in thought. For some time, he appeared doubtful whether he ought to be relieved or disappointed by the intelligence@ but at length he breathed more freely@ and withdrawing his eyes, observed that it was no great  as if to depart. But Mr. Bumble was cunning enough@ and he at once saw that an opportunity was opened, for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the pos@session of his better half. He well remem@bered the night of old Sally's death, which the occurrences of that day had given him good reason to recollect, as the occasion on which he had proposed to Mrs. Corney and although that lady had never confided to him the di@sclosure of which she had been the solitary witness, he had heard enough to know that it related to something that had occurred in the old woman's attendance, as workhouse nurse, upon the young mother of Oliver Twist. Hastily calling this circumstance to mind, he informed the stranger, with an air of mystery, that one woman had been closeted with the old harridan shortly before she died@ and that she could, as he had reason to believe, throw some light on the subject of his inquiry. 'How can I find her?' said the stranger, thrown off his guard@ and plainly showing that all his fears whatever they were were aroused afresh by the intelligence. 'Only through me,' rejoined Mr. Bumble. 'When?' cried the stranger, hastily. 'To-morrow,' rejoined Bumble. 'At nine in the evening,' said the stranger, producing a scrap of paper, and writing  obscure address by the water-side@@@@@@@@, in characters that betrayed his agitation 'at nine in the evening, bring her to me there. I needn't tell you to be secret@@@@. It's your in@terest.' With these words, he led the way to the door, after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk@@@. Shortly remarking that their roads were different, he departed, without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night. On glancing at the address, the parochial functionary observed that it contained no name. The stranger had not gone far, so he made after him to ask it.  cried the man, turning quickly round, as Bumble touched him on the arm. 'Following me?' 'Only to ask a question,' said the other, pointing to the scrap of paper. 'What name am I to ask for?'  and strode 
CHAPTER VIII. SABBATH ISLAND. Dominica.-Mount Diablotin.@-@The Lay of the Land.-@The Forests and Mountains. -Its unexplored Interior.-@Dr. Imray's Description of its Soil and Peculiari-ties. -@Its Crops and Commerce.@-@The Land of Caribs.-@Roseau. THE island of Dominica lies between the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean in 15° 39′ north latitude, 61° 30′ west longitude, mid-way between Guadeloupe on the north and Martinique on the south. It is twenty-nine miles long, extending from Cape Melville on the north to Cachacrou Head in the south at its greatest width, that is to say, from Pagouma Point to Crabière Point, it is sixteen miles in diameter. A line drawn between these two promontories across the island would pass nearly over the peak of Mount Diablotin, which is, as I have already said, the highest mountain, not only in this island but also in all the Caribbean Archipelago. Indeed, if we could see a plan of the elevation of the Caribbees as they lie from north to south, we would be struck by the fact that, beginning with Sombrero, at the extreme northerly end of the group, there is a noticeable and progressive increase in the height of the summits of the mountainous islands, until Mount Diablotin, the dominating height, is reached, thence the altitude of the hills diminishes, with marked regularity, to the south of this central mountain, gradually decreasing in height toward the low rolling hills in the south part of Trinidad. The last-named eminences are but moderate-sized braes, subsiding into broken plain and prairie country, only slightly raised above t
 presence, and there before your nobles, and nexte frendes to rebuke hym, and than commaund hym to leue hys cursed lyfe, and yf he wyll not, ye to do justice upon hym as on a straunge man hereto the duke consented, and thought the knyght gaue hym good counsell, and incontynent he sente out men to seke Robert, and in ony wyse they to brynge hym to hys presence this Robert, herynge of the complayntes made of all the people upon hym unto his fader, and that his fader had sent out men to take hym, wherefore all them that he coude gete, he put out theyr eyen, and so he toke the men that his fader sende for hym, and put out theyr eyen in despyte of his fader and whan he had thus blynded his fader's seruauntes, he sayd to them in mockynge, Syrs, nowe shall ye slepe the better go now home to my fader, and tell hym that I set lytel by hym, and bycause he sendeth you to brynge me to hym, therefore to hys dyspyte I have put out your eyen. These poore seruauntes whiche the duke had sent for Robert his sone, came home with grete payne and in grete heuynesse saynge thus O good lorde se howe youre sone Robert that ye dyde send us for hath arayed us, and blynded us. The good duke seynge his men in this case, he waxed very angry, and full of yre and began to compasse in his mynde how and by what meanes he myght come by to take Robert his son
 and withal condescending, and yet I hesitated to approach the royal barge to touch the tip of the waving sceptre my republican spirit recoiled from the thought that I might, perhaps, be expected to perform the further ceremony of kissing hands, as I had read Victoria's Ministers are expected to do when receiving their ministerial port-folios. I instantly made up my mind to accept no office, garter, or trumpery decoration whatsoever, no matter for what services or under what circumstances soever it might be offered. The purser, seeing my puzzled look, gave a knowing wink, and uttered the word swizzle-stick. Aunt Polly, singling me out as worthy of her attention, ad-dressed me in a plaintive, beseeching tone. Do buy ! Bes' swizzle-sticks, dear massa ! made 'em my own se'f, an' I know yo' won' 'fuse me. I'm a poo' woman, an' I on'y wan' jist a leetle money to keep me till I die. It won' be long, my love, my dove ! fo' I has to go to heaben very soon. It did seem more than likely that, in the event of her earthly ties being severed, she would rise, balloon-like, and flutter away in that direction. On'y one shillin' for a whole bunch. I'd give 'em to dear massa ef I could 'ford it. Here followed much more of the same sort of sugary persuasion that we, in less genial Northern climates, call taffy, and Aunt Polly, passing all belief for volubility, ran on, crying her wares, entreating, scolding at times, at times pathetically appealing to us in our charity to bestow upon her the wherewithal to eke out the few remaining days of her earthly pilgrimage. She was eloquent, earnest, tireless, hope-ful, despairing, by turns. She brandished the swizzle-sticks, now to attract our attention, anon to wave off such boatmen as approached too near her person, again to prod those that let their boats bump against her barge. At last, she realized her fondest hopes. A gal-lant Barracoutan, opening his heart and his pocket-book, descended to the foot of the ladder and, in consideration of a goodly lump sum then and there to Aunt Polly in hand paid, became the owner of swizzle-sticks in number sufficient to swizzle all the swizzles that were to 
THE JOYS OF AN Englishman's Life. MANY assert, but I ne'er heed 'em, That England is a land of freedom And it shall now be my employment To give an account of the poor man's enjoyment ! The rich may boast of this land of plenty, While they yearly get their thousands twenty But the poor man he may toil and scrub hard, And he still can't keep a loaf in the cupboard ! Sing hey, sing oh, what noise and strife, These are the joys of an Englishman's life @! On Sunday, lately 'twas expected, His freedom would have been restricted He would not have been suffered to smoke his To eat or walk, or drink his jackey @@backey, Closed all day the butchers and bakers, To put a stop to sabbath breakers. So the poor who get paid too late for Sunday, Must have gone with empty bellies till Monday. And then, whatever may be his station, His shoulders are loaded with taxation He pays for what nature gave to content him@-For the light and the land that providence sent He toils both every day and hour, him. To keep those public thieves in power, And as @s vain to strive to stop it, he Gives the Bishops a tenth of his property. And if he can't get food for carving, And his wife and children all are starving, How little compassion he gets to his grief, sirs, If he goes and ask for parish relief, sirs. The Overseer will not relieve him, But light genteel employment give, Such as picking of oakham, clearing muck, sirs, Breaking of stones, or dragging a truck, sirs. The rich, who roll about in fashion, May through the streets remorseless dash on, Run over poor old men and women, And ne'er from justice get a trimming ! By Martin's Act, a beast for beating@@@@@@@, A heavy fine you must be meeting, @@But a rich man for a poor one killing,@@@@@@@ Is honourably discharged by paying a shilling. The poor man meets no public feeling, He can't get work, and if begging or stealing, To prison he's very soon escorted, Sent to the mill, or mayhap transported ! Such is the rich man's great humanity, Benevolence, virtue, and urbanity, He'd see the poor people starve in a group, sirs, Ee he'd give them so much as a @'ticket for soup sirs. On Sunday, being a day of leasure, The mechanic goes out for a little pleasure He may quaff his ale, dull care to bury, And sometimes get a little merry. The constables then him abuse, sirs, And knock down arguments they use, sirs, Because of the law he should be in dread, sirs, For breaking the peace, they break his head, sirs. At last, when hunger's sting doth rack him, They kindly in the workhouse pack him They gripe him well, nor deem it cruel, On brown bread, cheese, and water gruel ! If sickness, too, should happen to drill him, The doctors, out of pity, kill him, And if he can't boast of a single relation, His body is book'd for anatomization ! Sing hey, sing ho, what noise and strife, Thus finish the joys of an Englishman's life. March to the battle field MARCH to the battle field, The foe is now before us, Each heart is freedom's shield, And heaven smiling o'er us The woes and pains, the galling chains, Which kept our spirits under, In proud disdain we've broke again, And tore each link asun@der. March, c. Who for his country brave, Would fly from the invader, Who his base life to save, Would traitor-like degrade her. Our hallow'd cause, our home and laws, 'Gainst tyrant power sustaining, He'll gain a crown of bright renown, Or die our rights defending. March, c. Ordoyno, Printer, Nottingha
 stronge this Robert dyde so moche myschefe that all the people were in a rore, and assembled all with one assent in a grete angre and ranne to the duke complaynynge, saynge thus Lorde, ye be gretely to blame that ye suffre your sone to do as he dothe we beseche yow for goddes sake to fynde some remedye for hym, to cause hym to sease or leue his mysrule. How Robert the Deuyll rode about the countree of Normandy, robbynge, stelynge, morderynge, and brennynge chyrches, abbayes and other holy places of relygyon, and forsynge of women, and rauyshynge of maydens. THAN whan Robert se there was no man more lefte in the felde, and that he coude do no more myschef there, than he toke his horse with the spores to seke his aventures, and began to do every day more harm than other one, for he forsed and rauysshed maydens and wyues without nombre, he kylled murdred so moche people, that it was pyte, also he robbed chyrches abbayes, hermytages, and fermes, there was not an abbaye in all the countrey but he robbed and pylled them, these wycked dedes of Robert came to the eres of the good duke, and al they that were thus robbed and rebuked came to complayne of the grete outrage and suppressyon done by Robert, and sty@ll was doynge thorowe out all the countree. One sayd, My lorde youre sone hathe forsed my wyfe, another sayd, he hath rauyshed my doughter, the other sayd, he hath stol
 London maids attend to me, While I relate my misery Thro' London streets I ofttimes strayed, But now I am a convict maid. In innocence I once did live, In all the joys that peace can give, But sin my youthful heart betrayed, And now I am a convict maid. To wed my lover I did try To take my master's property So all my guilt was soon displayed, @And I became a convict maid. Then I was soon to prison sent, To wait in fear my punishment@@@@@ When at the bar I stood dismayed, Since doomed to be a convict maid. At length the judge did me address, Which filled with pain my aching breast To Botany Bay you'll be conveyed, For seven years a convict maid. For seven years, oh ! how I sighed, While my poor mother loudly cried My lover wept, and thus he said, May God protect my convict maid. To you that hear my mournful tale, I cannot half my grief reveal No sorrow yet has been portrayed, Like that of the poor convict maid. Far from my friends and home so dear, My punishment is most severe My woe is great, and I'm afraid That I shall die a convict maid. I toil each day in grief and pain, In sleepless thought the night remain My constant toils are unrepaid, And wretched is the convict maid. Oh could I but once more be free, I'd ne'er again a captive be, But I would seek some honest trade, And never become a convict maid. THE  APPLY The answer to- No Irish Need Apply. L ISTEN now you Irishmen to what I shall rehearse, And remember being Irish to you is no disgrace If you look at the advertisements which way you cast your eye, You'll find at every ' genteel ' place-@The Irish must apply. For it is our country they like, and a very good reason@@ why They insert in their advertisements-@The Irish must apply. No doubt they have been to Erin's merry land, Where every luxury was bestowed all with a bounteous hand, When a hearty welcome they had found, 'tis sufficient to imply, That they have been prompted for to say -@The Irish must apply. And I think it a sufficient fact to convince both you and I, That the people are in the right who say -@The Irish must apply. Then just a moment, if you please, the soldiers we will scan, And ask apart from prejudice, who are the bravest men ? In the Crimea, in China, and in India I cry, England saw and echoed -@The Irish must apply. Al@tho' the brave great Wellington for ever has gone by, In order for such men again -@The Irish must apply. Their statesmen too, England's premier, Lord Pal-merston I mean, Is one of England's proudest sons, of him we gladly sing, The Irish poets we admire, their beauty and their style, And for such excellence and wit-@The Irish must apply. England boasts about her wealth, her greatness is her@@@@ And for its being still maintained@-@The Irish must apply. Remember when the Queen to Ireland paid a visit, None but devoted Irish could display such loyal spirit With true-hearted joyous shouts that echoed to the sky, Showed that her Majesty in emergency,-@For the Irish must apply. So now I will conclude, and bid you all good-bye, And say in every loyal, real good cause -@The Irish must appl
 to record the same my mind abhors, And plaint eschews, yet thus will I begin. The Greeks' chieftains all irked with the war Wherein they wasted had so many years, And oft repulsed by fatal destiny, A huge horse made, high raised like a hill, By the divine science of Minerva Of cloven fir compacted were his ribs For their return a feignèd sacrifice The fame whereof so wandered it at point. In the dark bulk they closed bodies of men Chosen by lot, and did enstuff by stealth The hollow womb with armèd soldiers. There stands in sight an isle, hight Tenedon, Rich, and of fame, while Priam's kingdom stood, Now but a bay, and road, unsure for ships. Hither them secretly the Greeks withdrew, Shrouding themselves under the desert shore. And, weening we they had been fled and gone, And with that wind had fet the land of Greece, Troy discharged her long continued dole. The gates cast up, we issued out to play, The Greekish camp desirous to behold, The places void, and the forsaken coasts. Here Pyrrhus' band their fierce Achilles pight Here rode their ships there did their battles join. Astonied some the scatheful gift beheld, Behight by vow unto the chaste Minerva All wondering at the hugeness of the horse. The first of all Timoetes gan advise Within the walls to lead and draw the same And place it eke amid the palace court Whether of guile, or Troyè's fate it would. Capys@ with some of judgment more discree
 HAMLET'S SOLILOQUY. TO be, or not to be that is the question -Whether 'tis nobler in the mind, to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles, And, by opposing, end them. To die, to sleep, No more and, by a sleep, to say we end The heart-ache, and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to 'tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. To die to sleep To sleep ! perchance to dream aye, there's the rub For, in that sleep of death what dreams may come, When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, Must give us pause there's the respect, That makes calamity of so long life For, who would bear the whips and scorns of time, The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The pangs of despised love, the law's delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes, When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin ? Who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life But that the dread of something after death, The undiscovered country, from whose bourn No traveller returns, puzzles the will, And makes us rather bear those ills we have, Than fly to others that we know not of ? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all, And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of though
 they founde in the stretes, and the burgeyses of the cyte laye in theyr wyndowes and laughed and mocketh with Robert. Than whan Robert had thus played the fole in Rome a certayne season, he came on a tyme to themperour's courte and se the gate dyde stande open and came streyght into the hall, and there jetted up and downe from the one syde to the other, somtyme he went faste andsomtymesoftely and than he hopped and ran and other whyle stode styll, but he stode not longe in one place. The emperour seynge Robert thus playenge the fole, he sayd to one of his seruantes, se yonder is a fayre fauoured yonge man, me thynke he is out of his mynde, the whiche is grete domage, for he is fayre and a well made man, go and gyue hym mete. This empe-rour's seruaunte dyde as he was commaunded, and called Robert to hym and wolde have gyuen hym some mete, but Robert nolde ete nor drynke, and whyle Robert sate thus at the table, the emperour sawe one of his houndes whiche was bytten with an other dogge, wherefore, themperour cast hym a bone, and the dogge caught the bone and began to gnawe there on, and Robert seynge that lept from the table and toke it from hym, but the dogge fought with Roberte for the bone, and helde faste the one ende, and Robert the other ende, but Robert se it wolde be no better, but set him downe on the grounde, and gnewe on the one ende of the bone and the dogge on the other them-perour and they that loked there on laughed at Robert and the dogge, but Robert dyde so moche that
 Grays wife of Glocester, with one or two more of her neighbours went to the Faire, where seruants came to be hired, and how she tooke the Earle of Shrewesburies Daughter into her seruice, Chap. 3. IT was wont to be an old custome in Glocestershire, that at a certaine time in the yeere, all such young men and Maidens as were out of seruice, resorted to a faire that was kept neere Glocester, there to be ready for any that would come to hire them, the young men stood all on a row on the one side, and the maidens on the other. It came to pass, that the Earle of Shrewsburies daughter, whose father was lately banished, being driven into great distresse, and weary with trauell, as one whose delicate life was neuer vsed to such toyle, sate her downe vpon the high-way side, making this lamentation O false and deceitfull world, quoth she ! who is in thee that wishes not to be rid of thee, for thy extremities are great ? Thou art deceitfull to all, and trusty to none. Fortuner is thy treasurer, who is like thy selfe, wauering and vnconstant, she setteth vp tyrants, beateth downe Kings giueth shame to some, and renowne to others Fortune giueth these euils, and we see it not with her hands she toucheth vs, and we feele it not she treades vs vnder foot, and we know it not she speakes in our eares, and we heare her not she cries aloud, and we vnderstand her not And why ? because we know her not, vntil misery doth make her manifest. Ah my deare father, well maist thou doe. Of 
 if thou erect, Or go on such a score, I'll smiling mock at thy neglect, And never love thee more. But if no faithless action stain Thy love and constant word, I'll make thee famous by my pen, And glorious by my sword. I'll serve thee in such noble ways As ne'er was known before I'll deck and crown thy head with bays, And love thee more and more. -@Marquis of Montrose. CXLVII. TO THE LADY MARGARET LEY. DAUGHTER to that good Earl, once President Of England's Council and her Treasury, Who lived in both unstained with gold or fee, And left them both, more in himself content. Till the sad breaking of that Parliament Broke him, as that dishonest victory At Chaeronea, fatal to liberty, Killed with report that old man eloquent.† Though later born than to have known the days Wherein your father flourished, yet by you, Madam, methinks, I see him living yet So well your words his noble virtues praise, That all both judge you to relate them true And to possess them, honoured Margaret. -@Milton, Sonnet 10. Sir James Ley, Chief Justice, was created Earl of Marlborough and President of the Council he died in 1629. † Isocrate
 -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer Publisher, 177, Union-street, Borough,  all you brave fellows wherever you be, I pray give attention and listen to me And all you young lasses so buxom and gay, Mind what you're doing on our Club Feast day. CHORUS. The bells they are ringing, hark ! I hear the band play, And some sweetly singing on our Club Feast day. Now John leaves the farm yard, the team, and the plough, And Polly the milk-pails, the dairy, and cow Then off through the green fields they hasten away, Cheerful and light-hearted ou our Club Feast day. The lads from the villages dress'd gay and neat, Are tripping so nimble their sweethearts to meet, And cottagers' daughters, I think so at least,@@@@@@@@ Will soon meet their lovers at our Club  pleasant to see all our meadows so green, @@@@And trees in full blossom are plain to be seen The young lambs are skipping and sporting at play Come let us be jovial on our Club Feast day. When dinner time comes round the table we sit, With roast beef and plum pudding enough we all get, To settle expences we all freely pay, Then share what is left on our Club Feast day. And when it is over we think it no sin, If we all partake of a wee drop of gin I think we've had plenty of beer, some will say, But let us be friendly on our Club Feast day. When stuffing is over, come friends now advance, Come tune up the fiddle and all have a dance, But mind how you step it, and go the right way, Or else you might tumble on our Club Feast day. The cuckoo and small birds they sweetly do sing, While young folks so cheerful play kiss in the ring, But mind going homeward don't fall on the hay, Or perhaps you'll remember our Club Feast day. CHO@RUS. It's time to be parting, so off and away, And I hope we shall all meet on next Club Feast day. THE @WRECK OF THE BRAZEN SLOOP OF WAR. Y OU seamen all I pray give attention, To these few lines I'm going to tell, A shocking story I'm going to tell you, Which the Brazen sloop befell. It was early on the Sunday morning, On January the twenty-sixth, On the high rocks near to Newhaven, The Brazen sloop so fast did stick. 'Twas when she struck it was at low water, Just at the turning of the tide, To tell the power of wind and water, No man was able to describe. How shocking for to hear the screaming, The crew for help so loud did call, Her masts and rigging was broke asunder, Like chaff before the wind did fall. How shocking for to hear the screaming, The crew for mercy they loud did call, There was many on the shore stood gazing, But they could give no help at all. Captain Ancil and the lieutenant, They stript and tried to swim on shore, But sad to say they were soon exhausted, Drowned they were and could swim no more. Now the captain he has left a widow, And four poor children for to weep, And four more on board with him, And they were drowned in the deep. This woman being heavy with child, Which made the matter still the worse The worthy man had left a widow And four poor children fatherless. Some of the boats were broke to pieces, Their lives to save was all in vain, That shocking sight was quite heart-rending, To see them sink in the troubled main. How shocking for to hear the screaming, The crew for health so loud did roar, Pieces of timber@-@likewise dead bodies, From the Brazen sloop the water bore. Some with money, and some with watches, Gold rings around their fingers too, Some with wives and some with sweethearts, In sorrow did lament it's true. How shocking 'twas for to behold them, Struggling with the troubled wave, Out of one hundred and fifteen seamen, But one poor seaman from the wreck was saved. Now to conclude and finish my ditty, A mournful tale throughout my song, May God protect all British seamen, That on the raging seas belong May bright angels guard the ocean, And safely seamen for to guide,@@@@@@@ Not like the Brazen that was condemn'd, @@@@@All on Newhaven's rocks to ride. 700
 to rowe in them, as great ships to brooke the sea, only with one man to steere them, and they shall sayle far more swiftly than if they were full of men also chariots that shall move with an unspeakable force, without any living creature to stirre them. Likewise, an instrument may be made to fly withall, if one sit in the midst of the instrument, and doe turne an engine, by which the wings being artificially composed, may beat ayre after the manner of a flying bird. By an instrument of three fingers high, and three fingers broad, a man may rid himself and others from all imprisonment yea, such an instrument may easily be made, whereby a man may violently draw unto him a thousand men, will they, nill they, or any other thing. By art also an instrument may bee made, where with men may walke in the bot-tome of the sea or rivers without bodily danger this Alexander the Great used as the ethnick philosopher reporteth to the end he might behold the secrets of the seas. But physicall figurations are farre more strange for by that may be framed perspects and looking-glasses, that one thing shall appeare to be many, as one man shall appeare to be a whole army, and one sunne or moone shall seem divers. Also perspects may be so framed, that things farre off shall seem most nigh unto us with one of these did Iulius Caesar from the sea coasts in France marke and observe the situa-tion of the castles in England. Bodies may also be so framed that the greatest things shall appeare to be the least, the highest lowest, the most secret to bee the most manifest, and in such like sort the contrary. Th
 ON THE RECEIPT OF MY MOTHER'S PICTURE OUT OF NORFOLK. O THAT those lips had language ! Life has passed With me but roughly since I heard thee last. Those lips are thine@-@thy own sweet smile I see, The same that oft in childhood solaced me Voice only fails, else how distinct they say, ' Grieve not, my child, chase all thy fears away ! ' The meek intelligence of those dear eyes Blest be the art that can immortalize, The art that baffles Time's tyrannic claim To quench it ! here shines on me still the same Faithful remembrancer of one so dear, O, welcome guest, though unexpected here ! Who bidd'st me honour with an artless song, Affectionate, a mother lost so long, I will obey, not willingly alone, But gladly, as the precept were her own And, while that face renews my filial grief, Fancy shall weave a charm for my relief, Shall steep me in Elysian reverie,@-A momentary dream that thou art she. My mother ! when I learnt that thou wast dead, Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed ? Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, Wretch even then, life's journey just begun ? Perhaps thou gavest me, though unfelt, a kiss Perhaps a tear, if souls can weep in bliss@-Ah, that maternal smile ! It answers@-@Yes. I heard the bell tolled on thy burial day, I saw the hearse that bore thee slow away, And, turning from my nursery window, dr
 all to holde their pease, that he myght the better here and understande Robert. Then sayd Robert to the pope in this manner O ! holy fader, I am the moost and the greteste syner of all the worlde ! The pope toke Robert up by the hande, and sayde to hym Good frende, what is your desyre, and what eleth you to make all this noyse ? Than sayd Robert O ! holy fader, I beseche you to here my confessyon, for I be not by you assoyled, I am dampned worlde withouten ende, for it is meruayle that the deuyll bere me not awaye body and soule, seynge the foule innumerable synne that I am laden and bounden witball more than ony man lyuynge and in soo moche that ye are he that gyueth helpe and comforte to them that haue nede, therefore I humbly beseche you for the passyon of our Lorde Jhesu Cryst to here and purge me of my abho-mynable synnes, wherby I am deceued and departed from al the joyes of heuen, and I am wors than a Jewe. The pope herynge this, demed and thought in hymselfe whether this were Robert the Deuyll, and axed hym, Sone, be ye Robert the whiche I haue herde so moche spekynge of, the whiche is worst of all men. Than Robert answered and sayd, Ye. Than the pope sayd I wyll assoyle you, but I conjure you in the name of God that ye do no man harme. The pope and all that were aboute hym were aferde to loke upon Robert. Robert fell on his knees with great deuocyon and repentaunce of hys synnes, saynge, Holy fader, nay as longe as I lyue I promyse God and his bless
 against Russia, if war over the Afghan boundary question should finally be declared for at the time of which I am writing April, 1885 it seemed as if the British Lion and the Russian Bear were no longer to be kept from rending one another in pieces, if ever they met near the gates of Herat. The plucky Bims lost no time in assuring Great Britain of their loyalty, and determination to see her through her difficulties. As in the time of Charles II. their roy-alist ancestors sent a humble address to that monarch, bidding him be of good cheer and stout of heart, reminding him, in his exile, that all was not lost, for, although all the world might be against him, Barbados was ever at his back, so on that very same day, when the Russian and English fleets arrived at Norfolk in Virginia, and were supposed to be watching one another with hostile purpose, in-tending to settle the Afghan question out of hand, within sight of American shores, a cablegram was sent from Bridgetown, as I know from trustworthy hearsay, to Victoria's Government, containing brave words of encouragement and hope. We had scarcel@y cast anchor in Carlisle Bay before the bumboat people had surrounded the ship with so great an assemblage of small craft that it were useless fo try to tell their number as it would be to count the flies in a sugar-house. But among the many surrounding little vessels, one demands, and shall receive, particular mention and detailed description. Reader, let me interest you for a few moments in the rehearsal of a truly polychromatic incident of my visit to the waters that wash the leeward coast of this mighty colony. In the stern-sheets of a barge painted blue without and yellow within, on cushions covered with red and orange fabrics, of more or less costly material and cunning workmanship, there sat in state a buxom dame@-a washerlady of color, we at first imagined her to be. So portly and so plump was she, that it required the counterbalance of a huge chunk of coraline in the bow of her boat to keep it steady on even keel. She was so black, so shiny, her oily cheeks glistened in the sunlight, imaging dim outlines of her surroundings, like pictures seen in po
 thence to Nubia near Borno-lake, And so along the AEthiopian sea, Cutting the tropic line of Capricorn. I conquered all as far as Zanzibar. Then, by the northern part of Africa, I came at last to Graecia, and from thence To Asia, where I stay against my will Which is from Scythia, where I first began, Backward and forwards near five thousand leagues. Look here, my boys see, what a world of ground Lies westward from the midst of Cancer's line Unto the rising of this earthly globe, Whereas the sun, declining from our sight, Begins the day with our Antipodes ! And shall I die, and this unconquered ? Lo, here, my sons, are all the golden mines, Inestimable drugs and precious stones, More worth than Asia and the world beside And from th' Antarctic Pole eastward behold As much more land, which never was descried, Wherein are rocks of pearl that shine as bright As all the lamps that beautify the sky ! And shall I die, and this unconquered ? -@Marlowe's Tamburlaine. XXI. A ROYAL WISH. GIVE me a look, that, when I bend the brows, Pale death may walk in furrows of my face A hand, that with a grasp may gripe the world An ear to hear what my detractors say A royal seat, a sceptre, and a crown That those that do behold them may become As men that stand and gaze against the sun. -@Ib., The Massacre at Par
 in his hand, even dead we honour should. Ah, dearest God, me graunt, I dead be not defould. The seventh, now after death and burial done, Had charge the tender orphans of the dead And wydowes ayd, least they should be undone. In face of judgement he their right would plead, Ne ought the power of mighty men did dread In their defence nor would for gold or fee Be won their rightfull causes downe to tread, And, when they stood in most necessitee, He did supply their want, and gave them ever free. There when the Elfin knight arrived was, The first and chiefest of the seven, whose care Was guests to welcome, towardes him did pass Where seeing Mercie, that his steps upbare And alwaies led, to her with reverence rare He humbly louted in meeke lowlinesse, And seemely welcome for her did prepare For of their order she was Patronesse, Albe Charissa were their chiefest founderesse. There she awhile him stayes, himselfe to rest, That to the rest more hable he might bee During which time, in every good behest, And godly worke of Almes and charitee, She him instructed with great industree. Shortly therein so perfect he became, That, from the first, unto the last degree, His mortal life he learned had to frame In holy righteousnesse, without rebuke or blame. Thence forward by that painfull way they pas Forth to an hill that was both steepe and h
 change and were a constant source of amusement to us, entertain-ing us by their quaint remarks and grotesque behavior. At every port of call there were neat, clean-looking washerwomen ready to take our linen in charge, many of them by no means inexperienced blanchisseuses, for they did their work neatly, thoroughly, and promptly received payment therefor graciously, earnestly soliciting our further favors, Nex' time yo' come back, dear massa. It was astonishing with what quantities of fruit we passengers on the Barracouta were tempted and the cheapness of it, as well as the inexhaustible supply of all kinds, was still more to be marvelled at by those of us who could not rid our minds of the idea that tropical fruits were of necessity luxuries, in the nature of things costly, and therefore to be indulged in sparingly except by those whose purses were com-mensurate with their appetite for expensive delicacies of the kind. Oranges, limes, bananas, mangoes, pines, soursops, avocado-pears, and other juicy@, tempting comestibles before untasted by us who were mak-ing our first discoveries of the delights of a West Indian voyage, were constantly in active demand in fact, any appetizing morsel that ap-peared to be good for food or was pleasant to the eye commanded a ready sale, regardless of quality or degree of ripeness. We held as naught the old Spanish proverb which sets forth the varying metal-lurgical properties of fruit according to the time of day it happens to be eaten by human beings. The arrival of a fruit-seller's boat along-side the vessel was watched with eager interest the discovery of any hitherto untried specimen was promptly advertised by cries of, Hi ! you there ! how much are those ? What'll you take for the lot, basket and all ? The inquiries frequently made by us of the hucksters we patronized, Is it good to eat ? Do you eat it raw ? invariably excited the unrestrained mirth of the colored by-standers. The fruit-sellers took a childish delight in showing us how strange varieties were to be made ready for the experimental bite, which was generally taken in the presence of a silent, expectant group of the purchaser's fellow-passenger
 by uncontaminated descent but there are those who assert, on the other hand, that at present there are no people of unmixed Indian blood on the island. In the foregoing extracts from Dr. Imray's description of the island the rainfall is said to be less than eighty inches in each year this does not accord with what I have elsewhere stated, that as much as two hundred and eight inches of rain was estimated to have fallen in certain years. I made the extract in testimony of the larger quantity of annual rainfall from Antigua and the Antiguans, a history to which I am inclined to accord a cer-tain degree of reliability. It is more than likely, however, that Dr. Imray states the fact with greater exactness this would seem to be probable, when it is remembered that he made his residence in the island of Dominica, and was therefore presumably fitted to speak with definite understanding of all such matters. Should the rain-fall of Dominica be less than eighty@ inches, it is still double, or nearly double, that of the neighboring drought@y land of Antigua, and it was the contrast between the climates of the two Caribbees that I was seeking to illustrate when I quoted from the book in question. About twenty thousand acres of land only may be said to be under active cultivation in the body of the island, that is to say, successively tilled from year to year, although a much greater quantity is occasion-ally, and at irregular intervals, brought under crops. Be this as it may, by far the greater part of Dominica is unbroken wilderness. The four centuries that have passed since the great Admiral christened it Sabbath Island have changed its aspect, we may well be sure, but little. Its impenetrable forests and steep hill-sides have resisted the axe and ploughshare, setting at naught the toil of settlers, save where here and there infrequent clearings, by almost infinite labor, have been made to yield rich crops of sugar-cane, and, in former days, abundant supplies of coffee, indigo, and, it is said, some cotton. Sugar, of course, is the principal product@-@of which six thousand hogs-heads was the largest annual yield at any time, that is to say, 
 A@@NCHORSMITH @L @IKE AEtna's dread volcano see the ample forge Large heaps upon large heaps of jetty fuel gorge, While salamander like the ponderous anchor lies, Glutted with vivid fire thro' all its pores that flies. The dingy anchorsmiths, to renovate their strength, Stretch'd out in death-like sleep lie snoring at their length, Waiting the master's signal, when the tackle's force Shall like split rocks the anchor from the fire divorce.  P. SUCH, Machine Printer Publisher, 177, Union-street, Borough,ES@T. T O the West ! to the West ! to the land of the free, Where mighty Missouri rolls down to the sea, Where a man is a man if he's willing to toil And the humblest may gather the fruits of the soil Where children are blessings, and he who hath most, His aid for his fortune and riches to boast Where the young may exult, and the aged may rest, Away, far away, to the land of the West ! To the West ! to the West ! c. To the West ! to the West ! where rivers that flow, Run thousands of miles, spreading out as they go, Where the green waving forests shall echo our call, As wide as old England and free to us all Where the praries like seas, where the billows have rolled, Are broad as the kingdoms and empires of old, And the lakes are like oceans in storm or in rest, Away, far away, to the land of the West ! To the West ! to the West ! c. To the West, to the West ! there is wealth to be won, The forest to clear is the work to be done We'll try it, we'll do it, and never despair, While there's light in the sunshine, and breath in the air The bold independence that labour shall buy, Shall strengthen our hands and forbid us to sigh Away, far away, let us hope for the best, And build up a home in the land of the West ! To the West ! to the West !  as old Vulcan's cyclops did the anvil bang, In deaf'ning concert shall their pond'rous hammers clang, And into symmetry the mass incongruous beat, To save from adverse winds and waves the gallant British fleet. Now as more vivid and intense each splinter flies, The temper of the fire the skilful master tries, And as the dingy hue assumes a brilliant red, The heated anchor feeds the fire on which it fed. The huge sledge hammers round in order they arrange, And waking anchorsmiths await the looked for change, Longing with all their force the ardent mass to smite, Then issuing from the fire array'd in dazzling white. And as old Vulcan's cyclops did the anvil bang, To make in concert rude their pond'rous hammers clang, The rude misshapen lump to symmetry they beat, To save from adverse winds and waves the gallant British fleet. The preparation thickens, with forks the @@fire they goad, @A@@nd now twelve anchorsmiths the heaving bellows load While armed from every danger, and in grim array, Anxious as howling demons waiting for their prey. The forge the anchor yields from out its fiery maw, Which on the anvil prone, the cavern shouts, hurrah ! And now the scorch'd beholders want the power to gaze, Faint with its heat, and dazzled with its powerful rays. While as old Vulcan's cyclops did the anvil bang, To forge Jove's thunderbolts their pond'rous ham-mers clang, And till its fire's extinct the monstrous mass they beat, To save from adverse winds and waves the gallant British flee
 of the Country, but of two most especially, Duke Robert, and Sir William Ferris. It chanced on a time, that faire Margaret with many others of her Masters folkes, went a hay-making, attired in a red stammell peticoate, and a broad strawne hat vpon her head, she had also a hay-forke, and in her lappe shee did carry her breake-fast. As she went along, Duke Robert, with one or two of his keepers, met with her, whose amiable sight did now anew re-inkindle the secret lire of loue, which long lay smothering in his heart. Wherefore meeting her so happily, he saluted her thus friendly. Faire maid, good morow, are you walking so dili-gently to your labour ? Needes must the weather be faire, when the Sun shines so cleare, and the hay whole-some that is dryedwith such splendent rayes. Renowned and most notable Duke qd. she poore haruest folkes pray for faire weather, and it is the laborers comfort to see his worke prosper, and the more happy may we count the day, that is blessed with your princely presence but more happy, said the Duke, are they which are con-uersant in thy company. But let me intreat thee to turne backe to thy Masters with me, and commit thy forke to some that are fitter for such toyle trust me, me thinkes thy dame is too much ill aduised, in setting thee to such homely busines. I muse thou canst indure this vile beseeming seruitude, whose delicate lims were neuer framed to proue such painefull experiments. Albeit, quoth she, it becommeth not me to controule your iudiciall thoughts, yet were you not the Duke,
 ofte of his degre. In Gernade attë siegë hadde he be Of Algesir, and riden in Belmarie. At Lieys was he, and at Satalie, Whan they were wonne and in the Greetë see At many a noble arive hadde he be. At mortal batailles hadde he ben fiftene, And foughten for our feith at Tramassene In lystës thriës, and ay slayn his foo. This ilkë worthy knight hadde ben also Somtymë with the lord of Palatye, Ageyn another hethen in Turkye And evermore he hadde a sovereyn prys. And though that he was worthy, he was wys, And of his port as meke as is a mayde. He nevere yit no vileinye ne sayde In al his lyf, unto no maner wight. He was a verray perfight gentil knight. But for to tellen you of his array, His hors was good, but he ne was nought gay. Of fustyan he werede a gepoun Al bysmotered with his habergeoun. For he was late ycome from his viage, And wentë for to doon his pilgrimage. With him ther was his sone, a young SQUYER, A lovyere, and a lusty bacheler, With lokkës crulle as they were leyd in presse. Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse. Of his stature he was of even lengthe, And wonderly delyver, and gret of strengthe. And he hadde ben sometyme in chivachye, In Flaundres, in Artoys, and Picardye, And born him wel, as of so litel space, In hope to stonden in his lady grac
 though he knew not what he was, yet being abasht, he answered thus Why sir, if you be angry, no body can hinder you for possible sir, you haue anger at commandement. The king seeing him in vttering of his words to quiuer and quake, laughed heartily at him, as well in respect of his simple answere, as at his feare and so soone after the last Wain went by, which gaue present passage vnto him and his Nobles and thereupon entring into communication of the com-moditie of cloathing, the king gaue order at his home returne, to have Old Cole brought before his Maiestie, to the intent he might haue conference with him, noting him to be a subiect of great abilitie but by that time he came within a mile of Staines, he met another company of waines, in like sort laden with cloth, where-by the king was driven into a further admiration and demanding whose they were, answere was made in this sort They be good-man Suttons of Salisbury, good sir and by that time a score of them were past, he asked againe, saying whose are these Suttons of Salisbury, qd. they, and so still, as often as the king asked that question, they answered, Suttons of Salis-burie. God send me many such Suttons, said the king. And thus the farther he trauelled Westward, more Waines and more he met continually vpon which occa-sion he said to his Nobles, That it would neuer grieue a king to die for the defence of a fertile Countrie and faith-ful subiects. I alwayes thought quoth he that Englands valor was more than her wealth, yet now I see her weal
 his lynage but nother with prayer nor with almesse dedes this good duke and duchesse could gete no chyldren. How upon a tyme this duke and duchesse walked alone, sore complanynge the one to the other that they coude have no chylde togyder. UPON a tyme this duke and duchesse walked, and the duke began to shewe his mynde to his ladye, saynge, Madame, we be not fortunate in so much that we can gete noo chyldren and they that made the maryage betwene us bothe they dyde grete synne, for I beleue and ye had been geuen to an other man, ye sholde haue had chyldren, and I also yf I had an other ladye. This lady understood his say@enge she answered softly, saynge thus Good lorde, we must thanke God of that whiche he sendeth us, and take it pacyently of what so euer it be. How Robert the Deuyll was conceyued, and how his moder gaue hym to the deuyll in his concepcyon. THIS duke upon a tyme rode oute an hountyng in a grete angre and pensyfness, for thought that he coulde haue no chylde, sore complanynge, saynge to hymselfe, I see many women haue many fayre chyldren in whiche they enjoy gretely, by which I se wel that I am hated of God, and meruayle it is that I fall not in dyspare, for it greueth me so sore at my herte that I can gete no chyl-dren. The deuyll, which is alwaye redy to deceyue ma
 woman, rise To thy peculiar and best altitudes Of doing good and of enduring ill,@-Of comforting for ill, and teaching good, And reconciling all that ill and good, Unto the patience of a constant hope,@-Rise with thy daughters ! If sin came by thee, And by sin, death,@-@the ransom-righteousness, The heavenly life and compensative rest, Shall come by means of thee. If woe by thee Had issue to the world, thou shalt go forth An angel of the woe thou didst achieve, Found acceptable to the world instead Of others of that name, of whose bright steps Thy deed stripped bare the hills. Be satisfied Something thou hast to bear through womanhood, Peculiar suffering answering to the sin,@-Some pang paid down for each new human life, Some weariness in guarding such a life, Some coldness from the guarded some mistrust From those thou hast too well served from those beloved Too loyally some treason feebleness Within thy heart, and cruelty without, And pressures of an alien tyranny With its dynastic reasons of larger bones And stronger sinews. But, go to ! Thy love Shall chant itself its own beatitudes, After its own life-working. A child's kiss Set on thy sighing lips shall make thee glad A poor man served by thee shall make thee rich A sick man helped by thee shall make thee strong Thou shalt be served thyself by every sense Of service which thou renderest. -@Mrs. Browning, The Drama of Exil
 seems indeed indignant, and to feel The impression of the blast with proud disdain, Frowning, as if in his unconscious arm He held the thunder but the monarch owes His firm stability to what he scorns, More fixed below, the more disturbed above. The law, by which all creatures else are bound, Binds man, the lord of all. 1785. -@Cowper's Task, bk. i. CCLXV. THE POSTMAN. THE FIRESIDE IN WINTER. HARK ! 'tis the twanging horn o'er yonder bridge, That with its wearisome but needful length Bestrides the wintry flood, in which the moon Sees her unwrinkled face reflected bright -He comes, the herald of a noisy world, With spattered boots, strapped waist, and frozen locks, News from all nations lumbering at his back. True to his charge, the close-packed load behind, Yet careless what he brings, his one concern Is to conduct it to the destined inn, And, having dropped the expected bag, pass on. He whistles as he goes, light-hearted wretch, Cold and yet cheerful messenger of grief Perhaps to thousands, and of joy to some, To him indifferent whether grief or joy. Houses in ashes, and the fall of stocks, Births, deaths, and marriages, epistles wet With tears that trickled down the writer's cheek Fast as the periods from his fluent quill, Or charged with amorous sighs of absent swains Or nymphs responsive, equally affect His horse and him, unconscious of them all. But oh the important budget ! ushered 
 earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew, Though justice be thy plea, consider this@-That in the course of justice, none of us Should see salvation we do pray for mercy And that same prayer doth teach us all to render The deeds of mercy. 1596. -@Merchant of Venice, iv. 1. LVII. THE POWER OF MUSIC. HOW sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank ! Here will we sit, and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears soft stillness and the night Become the touches of sweet harmony. Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st, But in his motion like an angel sings, Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins Such harmony is in immortal souls But whilst this muddy vesture of decay Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it. Enter Musicians. Come, ho ! and wake Diana with a hymn With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear. And draw her home with music. Yes. I'm never merry when I hear sweet music. Lor. The reason is, your spirits are attentive And, do but note a wild and wanton herd Or race of youthful and unhandled colts, Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud, Which is the hot condition of their bloo
 our Sauyour Jhesu hauynge compassyon on the crysten blode, sent Robert by an aungell a whyte horse and harneys, commaundynge hym to go rescue and helpe the Romayns ayenst the Ethen dogges the Sarasyns. THE emperour and the Romayns went to the batayle as sayd is ayenst the Sarasyns, and Robert was at home, where he was accostomed to walke in the gardyne to a fountayne or well to drynke, and this was on the same daye that themperour with his hoste sholde gyue batayle ayenst the Sarasyns than came there, a uoyce oute of Heuen sente from our Lorde, saynge in this maner. Robert, God commaundeth you, by me, that ye incontynent arme you with this harneys, and lyght upon this horse that God hath sente you, and ryde in all the hast possyble and rescue the emperour and his people. Robert herynge the commaundement of God was abasshed in his mynde, and durst not do ayenst goddes commaundement, but in contynent he armed hym and lepte on the hors without tarynge and rode his waye. The emperour's doughter whiche I tolde you of before, stode at a wyndowe and sawe Robert thus armed on horsbacke, than if she coude haue spoken she wolde haue tolde it, but she coude not speke for she was dombe, but she remembred and bare it surely in her mynde. Robert thus horst and harnayst, rode into themperours hoost whiche he sawe sore ouer pressed with theyr enmyes the Turkes, in so moche, that h
 must not be imagined, however, from my spinning such yarns concerning vultures and other frightful creatures, that while at Port of Spain I supped full of horrors nor do I intend to convey the idea that Trinidad alone, of all the places I visited in the West Indies, is in particular infested by monstrosities that prey on mankind. At Mar-tinique I could have scared up a fer-de-lance, as the vile serpent is called, whose bite is as deadly as that of the cobra. At any of the islands I could, no doubt, have unearthed grewsome and venom-ous things, tarantulas, scorpions, centipedes, and chigoes. All these dreadful things, and many more, are to be seen in the Caribbees, no doubt, but I had as soon thought of going in quest of them as of go-ing a-slumming in the lowest, filthiest dives of a great city. I had, moreover, no craving to disgust my sight, nor morbid desire to insult my sensibilities, by visiting the lepers in their lazar-houses, or the wretched coolies smitten with elephantiasis, nor to gratify my curiosity by invading the awful seclusion of the Yaws Hospitals, where living souls are held in torment by festering bodies that might better in mercy be laid quick in the earth. I saw none of all these awful sights, for I took heed where I set my feet, going gingerly in the long grass or among the weeds, and in this way, avoiding the scorpions and other reptiles, I went my way in peace and quietness. As for the suffering souls, I could pity them without staring at them in their torments. There was an infinity of beautiful things to satisfy the mind, and fill the heart with gladness and content. Life was delicious and sensuous. The world seemed as fair and restful as if the Old Serpent, the father of fer-de-lance and patron of all hideous things, and not my ances-tors, had been evicted from Eden. But to return to my walk through Port of Spain, Puerto de los Hispañoles, as the followers of Columbus called it@-@Conquerabia being the name given it by its early inhabitants, as we learn from Sir Walter Raleigh. It is the capital of the colony, and contains nearly thirty-two thousand inhabitants. Owing to the daily arrival and departure of vessels coming from and departing to all parts 
 excellent Princes, qd. they and therewithall told them the whole matter. When they heard the storie, downe to Bosomes Inne they goe, where looking vp into the roofe, spied poore Cutbert pinned vp in a basket, and almost smoaked to death, who although hee were greatly ashamed, yet most pitifully desired that they would get him release. What is his trespasse, said the Prince ? Nothing if it shall like your Grace, qd. he, but for looking for a cheese But hee could not find it without my wife, said the good-man the villaine had lately dined with mutton, and could not digest his meate without cheese, for which cause I haue made him to fast these twenty houres, to the end he may haue a better stomacke to eate his dinner, then to vse dalliance. Let me intreate you, quoth the Prince, to release him and if euer hereafter you catch him in the corne, clappe him in the pownd@@. Your Grace shall request or command any thing at my hand, said the old man and so Cutbert was let downe vnbound, but when he was loose, he vowed neuer to come within that house more. And it is said, the old man Bosome ordained, that in remembrance of this deed, euery yeere once all such as came thither to aske for cheeses, should be so serued which thing is to this day kep
 is in longitude 61° 45′ W., latitude 17° 6′ N. In shape it is an irregular oval, thirteen and one-half miles from east to west, a little over nine miles from north to south, and has an area of about sixty-nine thousand acres. As compared with the mountainous islands lying to the south and west of it, the surface of this Caribbee is of moderate elevation. Boggy Peak, the highest of the Sheckerly Moun-tains, rising in the southwest, is only thirteen hundred and forty feet in height. From the southwest the face of the country ascends grad-ually to the summit of this prominent landmark, thence it falls sea-ward in some places very abruptly, dips beneath tide-water lifts again, forming dangerous reefs and shoal places far beyond th@e shore. In the mountainous part of Antigua the soil is poor and starved, and but little tilled in all other regions the land is very productive, and, notwithstanding it suffers at times severely from drought, yields ex-ceedingly large crops to reward a very industrious and energetic race of planters. The inhabitants of Antigua number not far from thirty-five thousand souls, of whom about two thousand three hundred are whites. Passing Sandy@ Island light-house, at the entrance to the harbor of St. John's, the Barracouta came to anchor in a roadstead where she made one of a fleet of many vessels, flying flags of all nations, all save the Stars and Stripes, which in these later years has all but disap-peared from the harbors of the world. From our anchorage, half a mile or so from the land, we had an extended view of the western slope of the island, from the crest of its water-shed down to the ocean on its leeward side. In general appearance Antigua reminded me of the shores of Martha's Vineyard in summer-time the harbor of St. John's, in particular, suggesting Vineyard Haven in many ways, so that the scenery had a familiar look, at least so long as we remained at such a distance as prevented our distinguishing between the foliage of tropical trees, forever green, and those that shed their leaves in chill October. Antigua was long ago entirely denuded of primeval forests indeed, there are but few trees growing upon the hill-side or in the bo
 Louisiana. And just here let me mention that the name creole is applied to everything born in the West Indies, and, as the London Spectator of recent date points out There are not only creole men and women of pure British, as well as of French, Dutch, and Spanish stock, but creole bulls and cow@s, creole horses, and creole cocks and hens and as the Louisianians are especially fond of the appellation, so also do the creoles of the West Indies consider the name honorable and worthy to be borne by all people of native birth. One hears the phrase, one of the oldest creole families, just as in New York one hears the term, old Knickerbocker families, or as in Nevada I have heard the enterprising, public-spirited citizens who opened the first faro-banks or gin-mills deferentially referred to by the upper middle classes of a brand-new mining-camp as solid old-timers. Continuing my stroll about the streets, looking into the shop-windows, watching the people passing and repassing, nodding in return to their nods, bowing like a tea-shop mandarin, I came at length to the boutique of a dealer in fruits@-@fruits of all kinds, mangoes, sappo-dillas, sour-@and sweet-sops, avocado pears, and others too numerous to mention. I at once proceeded to take samples of the stock-in-trade of this merchant, telling him to keep my score and I would settle with him when I could eat no more. At a fruit-stand in New York I should speedily have bankrupted myself, and yet when I ceased eating, for very shamefacedness, the fruiterer was perfectly content to receive the sum of one franc, then and there to him in hand paid. Telling him I would return later in the evening to clear out his remaining stock, I joined the stragglers of our party at the landing-place, and went with them on board the Barracouta to a late but satisfying dinner, and at an early hour turned in on dec
PREFACE. IN the years 1846, 1849, and 1852, I published illustrated journals of tours in Central and Southern Italy, and in Albania, three books which met with a successful reception from the Public, and were very kindly noticed by the Press. The present volume consists of journals written with the same intent and plan as those which preceded them. They describe, nearly word for word as they were written, my impressions of the nature of the landscape in those portions of Corsica through which I travelled. It is possible that the literary part of this book may not prove of equal interest with that of the publica@tions above named not, indeed, from any want of merit in the subject, but because I have now no longer the help of friends who then kindly assisted me by their criticisms, especially the late Robert A. Hornby, Esq., and Richard Ford, Esq. But the aim of all these journals should be looked on as the same, simply to be aids to the knowledge of scenery which I have visited and delineated. I passed last winter at Cannes, intending to return early in the spring to Palestine, for the purpose of completing drawings and journals for a work already partly advanced but circumstances having prevented me from carry@ing out this plan, I decided on going to Corsica, rather perhaps on account of its being a place near at hand and easily reached, than from any distinct impression as to the nature of the country, or from any particular interest in its history, inhabitants, or scenery.@ It is true that the Corsican mountains are sometimes visible from Cannes at sunrise, and latterly I had read M. Prosper Merimée's beautiful little tale of Colomba, the scene of which lies in Cor@sica but I confess to having been chiefly led to think of going there by that necessity which the wandering painter-whose life's occupation is  pictorial or topographic purposes-is sure to find continually arising, that of seeing some new place, and of adding fresh ideas of landscape to both mind and portfolio-For all experience is an arch, wherethrough Gleams the untravell'd world, whose margin fades, For ever and for ever when I move. It was growing late in the spring when I had decided on going to Corsica, and time did not allow of my procuring books though plenty have been written on the subject or maps. Valery's Voyages en Corse, published so long back as 1837, was the only guide I could obtain nor did I happen to fall in with any one who knew the Corsica of 1868. M. Prosper Merimée's visit to the island had occurred many years back though he most kindly procured me letters of introduction which proved of great value . One friend wrote that though there were roads, there were no carriages another that a yacht was the only means of seeing a place, the interior of which was intolerable for want of accommodation. My ignorance was @not bliss, and I would have got knowledge if I could but as there was no remedy, and as I intended to pass some eight or ten weeks there, I prepared to go to Corsica as I should have done to any other land of unknown attributes, where I might find the necessity of roughing it daily or nightly, or the contrary it cannot, I thought, be worse than travelling in Albania or Crete, long journeys through both of which countries I have survived. A few words on the arrangements preliminary to such travelling may be allowed. Some there are who declaim against carrying much luggage, and who reduce their share of it to a minimum. From these I differ, having far more often suffered from having too little roba than too much. Clothing for travelling comfortably in hot or cold climates, such as must be experienced in the plains and mountains of an island so varied in formation as Corsica, and for different phases of social life during an extended tour great amount of drawing material, folios, paper, c. an indian-rubber bath above all, a small folding camp or tent bed, of good use in many a long journey in Albania, Syria, c., and in which I am sure of sleep anywhere these, mostly contained in a brace of strong saddle-bags, form a goodly assortment of luggage, and eventually I found it to be not one iota too much. Then, as to travelling alone, the prospect of which is dreadful to some,  always do so by preference, because I cannot otherwise devote every moment to my work, or so arrange plans as to insure their success. Some@times, indeed, I have made exceptions to this rule, yet only in cases where my fellow-travellers were not only as eager draftsmen as myself, and where I, being their senior, as well as instructor in sketching, could define and follow all my own plans exactly and without hindrance. Strictly speaking, how@ever, it is long since I made any tours really alone, as various sharp illnesses have taught me the great inconvenience of doing so and I have frequently been thankful for the care of a good servant who has travelled with me for many years. George Kokali, a Suliot, speaking several languages, sober, honest, and active, saves me all trouble and gives none now carrying a weight of cloaks and folios and daily bread for a twenty-mile walk or more, anon keeping off dogs and bystanders when I am drawing, or cooking and acting as house-servant when stationary a man of few words and constant work. Those who go to Corsica hoping to study antiquities will be disappointed for the manifold charms of classical countries are wanting there the long lines of Grecian plains, so crowded with spots full of historic and poetic memories, vast and beautiful remains such as those of Sicily, Syria, or Egypt, do not exist in it neither will he find the more modern beauties of architecture, the varied forms of tower or castle, mosque, cathedral, or monastery, with which Albania or Italy abound. On the other hand, the ever varying beauties of light and shade in mountain and valley, the contrast of snowy heights and dark forests, the thick covering of herb and flower, shrub and tree, from the cyclamen and cystus to the ilex, oak, beech, and pine, these are always around him, and he will find that every part of Corsica is full of scenes stamped with original beauty and uncommon interest. Equally will the tourist through the Corsica of our days fail in finding any@thing of romance there, except in the traditions of the past. If it were, in travelling through Calabria twenty years since, a disappointment to find no pointed hats, and no brigand costume, how much more so is it to find that Corsica, once the very fountain-head of romance, no longer possesses any, that you may walk from Capo Corso to the Straits of Bonifacio in the undis@turbed monotony of security, and that all gloomy atmosphere of risk  has for years past been dispersed by the broad daylight of French administration and civilisation ? With old customs and costumes, mystery and murder have alike disappeared from the Corsica of 1868. A slight sketch of Corsican history, together with some information concerning its geography, its inhabitants, c., matters which to many readers will prove of interest, but which it was not easy to incorporate with the Journal, will be found separately annexed and copious details are added in the shape of notes extracted from books I have read since my return from the island see list, page 269 , from which may be gathered impressions of the improved state of Corsica now, contrasted with that it was in at the time of the visits of earlier authors. A certain monotony of narrative must needs be the result of monotony of travel and the recital of a tour made in a carriage, cannot, I imagine, be made very attractive, if the writer simply records his own impressions. Many of the illustrations, however, were made in short pedestrian excursions, particularly in the forests, at some distance from the high road. One drawback to my visit, but one I could not avoid, was its shortness far too little time was devoted to delineating so large a space of country. To these remarks I will add, that in spite of the want of classical interest throughout Corsica, the memory of my visit to it becomes fresher and more interesting as time goes on nor do I despair of returning to it, to see some portions of the island I much regret not having visited-Niolo, the Casinca, the Coscione, Rostino, and the coast from Calvi to Porto. Of the Corsicans, too, I would gladly add a word as to their general courtesy and good breeding, and their hospitable welcome in places where no inns exist and, among other pleasant recollections, this should not pass unnoticed, namely, that there are no beggars in Corsica, a fact contrasting agreeably with the persecutions met with in some other countries. NOTE.-With the exception of six of the large plates, and ten of the vignettes, the whole of the eighty illustrations have been drawn on wood by myself, from my original sketches. And I@gladly take this opportunity of thanking @MM. Pibaraud, Pégard, Pannemakèr, Badoureau, and @Mr. J. D. Cooper, for the care and accuracy with which they have engraved the drawings submitted to their  FOREST OF BAVELLA. PLATE XI@V. FOREST OF BAVELLA@ I.@@@@@ Passage from Nice to Corsica-Les lies Sanguinaires, and Entrance to the Gulf of Ajaccio-Cemetery-First Impressions on Landing at Ajaccio-Helix Tristis-Hotels-Hôtel de Londres-Dress of Corsicans@-@The Cours Grandval@-@Beautiful Scenery near the City-Napoleon's Grotto-Picturesque Vegetation-Walk along the Shore to the Campo Santo@-Loneliness of the Neighbourhood of Ajaccio-Italian Dialect in use by the People-Infor@mation about Carghésé, the Greek Colony @in Corsica-Unfavourable Weather-The Eastern Harbour of Ajaccio-Tomb of Pozzo di Borgo-Scattered Tombs or Monuments-The Place Letitia-M. Galloni d'Istria, his Assistance and Information-Speculations as to the Best Mode of Seeing all Corsica-Decide on Hiring a Carriage -The Three Students, and their Purchases-Arrangements as to Route, Baggage, c.-Celebration of Easter in Ajaccio@-Views from the Walks near Napoleon's Grotto, their great Beauty-Plague of Little Boys@-Miss C. and her Interest in Corsica-Morning Studies above the Cours Grandval-Broccio, or Cream-cheese-Gourds-The House where Napoleon I. was Born-Letters of Introduction@ Antonio, its Grand Scenery and Granite Boulders-Visits with Miss C.-The Préfecture-Moufflons-Leave Ajaccio for the South of the Island-Peter the Coachman-Miss C.'s Predictions-Campo dell' Oro-Valley of the Prunelli, and Beautiful Scenes-Cauro- Hotels in Corsican Villages-Mrs. Paoloni and her Inn its Accommodation, c.-The Col di San Giorgio- Maquis and Wild Flowers-Valley of the Taravo-Descent to Grosseto-The Hotel des Amis Civil People and Good Fare-Ilex Trees-Quiet Civility of Corsicans-Beautiful Drive by the River, and Ascent to Bicchisano-Winding Mountain Road to Casalabriva, and Descent to Olmeto@-@The @Hotel -Picturesqueness of the Town and its Situation-Tombs-Olive Slopes and Woody Scenery-Rain-Visit to a Sick Englishman-Leave Olmeto-Charming Scenery-Gulf of Valinco-Propriano and its Port-Valley of the Tavaria-Extremely fine Landscape-Long Ascent to Sarténé-Description of the Town- Hotel d'Italie -Fatima of Sarténé-Views of Sarténé and the Valley-M. Vico, and his advice about farther Travel@ling Bavella, c.-Constant Work for the Painter-A Day by the Rocks of the Tavaria Exquisite Subjects for Pictures-Granite Rocks and Foliage by the River-Mourning in Corsica-Fatima's Opinions about Household  Early Morning-Valley of the Ortola-Verdure of Corsica-Wild Flowers -Lion Rock at Roccaspina-Coast Road-Lonely Village of Monaccia-Uncultivated and Wild Country-Low and Unhealthy Tract-Creeks of Figari and Ventilegne-First Views of Bonifacio -Descent to its Picturesque Harbour-Appearance of the Fortress and Town-Good Carriage Road-Fortifications-Narrow Streets-Widow Carreghi's Hotel-Walk through Bonifacio-Its most singular Position and extreme Picturesqueness-Obliging People of the Hotel-Dr. Montepagano, the Maire-View of Bonifacio from the Cliffs opposite, and great Beauty of its Aspect-The Conscripts' Farewell Fête-Staircases at Bonifacio-Walk with Dr. Montepagano, and Visit to the Convent of La Santa Trinità-Leave Bonifacio@-Road@-Groves of Olives- Maquis -@Wild Flowers@-@Reach Porto Vecchio-Its Decayed Appearance-Madame Gianelli's Hotel-M. Quenza, the  and Beautiful Views of Porto Vecchio, its Gulf and Hills-Excellent Roads in Corsica Security Good Breeding of People-Climate of Porto Vecchio-Visit to the Forest of Spedale-Cork Woods-M. Quenza a good Companion-Blackbirds-Scenery of the Moun@tains of Spedale-Its Pine Forests, and extensive Views-Return to Porto Vecchio-Ent@emology in its Neighbourhood-Its Reputed Unhealthi@ness in Summer-Leave Porto Vecchio@-The Bastia Diligence-Plains of Fiumorbo, their broad and beautiful Character-The River Vabolesco, and the Mountains beyond-Migliacciara, its Hotel and Surrounding Scenery-Road through Cork Woods and Thick Vegetation Tracks of Maquis -Gulfs of Pinarello and Tower of Fautea-Road Along the Shore@-Flowers-Birds-Porto Favone,. its quiet Beauty-Peter the Coachman becomes Disagreeable-Solenzaro-Hotel of the Widow Orsola-Information about the Forest of Bavella and the Road to Aleria-M. Mathieu-Beautiful River Scene and  of Wide Plains at early Morning-Hamlet of Ghisonaccio-Cultivation of the Plain round the Site of Aleria-The Penitencier of Casa@bianda-M. Benielli-Position of ancient Aleria its magnificent Prospect-The Tavignano and distant Mountain Range-Hospitable Reception at Casabianda-@Walk towards the Baths of Pietrapola, and Return to Migliacciara-The Bastia Diligence and Supper-Leave Miglia@cciara@-The River Travo-Beautiful Effects of Light and Shade on the Plains of Fiumorbo@-Return to Solenzaro-Widow Orsola's Hotel-Leave Solenzaro for the Mountains-Grand Scenery of the Pass to the Forests of Bavella-Steep Ascent-Immense Hewn Pine Trunks@-Rocca Pinsuta-Peter the Coachman-Reach the Bocca di Larone-Magnificent Amphi@theatre of Crags and Forest-Descent to the Forest of Bavella-Thunderstorm and Rain-Difficulty of Ascent to the Maison dell' Alza-@Peter the Passionate-Pleasant Reception by M. Mathieu-A Day in Bavella-Glories of the Forest-Leave the Maison dell' Alza-Splendour of the Great Pine Woods and Crags-Descent from Bavella to the Village of Zonza@-Pass through San Gavino and Levie-Arrive at Santa Lucia di Tallano-Hotel, and Visit from Don G. Giacomone-Dr. Bennet, of Mentône-Churches and Convents of Santa Lucia di Tallano-Hospitable Breakfast at Don G. Giacomone's-His Family and House-Wines of Tallano-Leave Santa Lucia, and descend to the Valley of the Tavaria-Return to Sarténé-Peter's Homily upon Patience-Fatima's Polished Floors-Her Confidences and Misfortunes-View of Sarténé from above the Town-Return by Propriano to Olmeto-Visit to Mr. B.-Walk to Casalabriva@-Meet Miss C.-Scenery of the Taravo-Cippo the Goat@-Return to Grosseto.  to Cauro-Md@me. Paoloni's Good Cheer-Set out for Bastelica-Peter the Coachman's ill treatment of his Horses-Ministers of Finance-Woody Valley@-Charcoal Burners-Extent of Maquis -Forest House and Mill-Peter, being left to his own devices, cruelly beats his Horses-They back to the edge of the Precipice, into which they and the Carriage fall-Fulfilment of Miss C.'s Predictions-Assistance procured from the Forest House-The Painter walks on to Bastelica, and returns with a Car and Mules-Situation of Bastelica-Well-bred Children-Night passed in the Forest House-Return by a Mule Car to Cauro and Ajaccio-Stay at the Hotel de Londres-M. Lambert-Plans to visit the great Forests of A@itone, and Valdoniello, and the Greek Colony-M. Gery, the Préfet of Corsica-Search for a second Carriage, and hire one from Jean Carburo the Vaudois@-Dinner at the Préfecture-Leave Ajaccio for the Forests and North-West Coasts-Flora the Dog, and Domenico the new Driver-Ascent to, and View from San Sebastiano-Calcatoggio Descent to Sea Shore@-@Mid-day Halt-Valley and Plain of the Liamone-Sagona@-@Promontory of Carghésé-The Village Hotel-The Greek Priest and the Colony-Cultivation of the neighbouring Lands-Greek seldom spoken now at Carghésé-Growth of Cactus-Papa Michele's Information@-@Gardens and Nightingales@-@Cheerful Aspect of Carghésé-The Greek Church-The Gendarmerie, and Introductions to Persons at the Forests -Leave Carghésé-Mountain Scenery, and Green Maquis -Magnificent Views about La Piana-The Village, and its clean and good little  Scenery-Leave La Piana-Extraordinary Pass among Rocks-Descent to Gulf of Porto -Finest Portion of Corsican Coast Landscape-Tower of Porto-Great Timber Works of M. Chauton-M. and Madame Ceccaldi-Superb Scenery of the Valley of Otta-Grass@hopper-Pigs-The Gorge or Pass below Evisa exceeding Grandeur of Views-Evisa-Unsatisfactory Hotel -Beautiful Scenery beyond Evisa-Great Forest of A@ïtone-Bombyx Processionaria-Vast and magnificent Forest Scenery-Variety of Trees-Reach the Forest of Valdoniello-Valley of Niolo-Enormous Pines-Descent to M. Chauton's Establishment-Pine Forest Scenery in perfection-Hospitable reception by M. and Madame Ruelle-Pleasant Evening and agreeable Company-A Day in Valdoniello-Effects of Sunrise in the Forest-Gigantic Trees-Cloud and Rain-Leave Valdoniello and return by Aïtone to Evisa@-Madame Carrara's excellent little Hotel and good Breakfast@-@Drive from Evisa to Cristinaccie-Great Ilex and Chesnut Woods-Domenico the Coachman's Music-Beautiful Drive ever delightful greenness of Corsican Landscape-Walks in the Valley of Vico-Great Extent of Chesnut Woods-Vico-Picturesqueness cum Dirt-Leave Vico and descend to Sagona-Mid-day Halt by the Seaside@-@Flora's exemplary Conduct-Jelly-Fish and Amaryllises-Return to Ajaccio@@@ Tour in the Island-A Visit to Mellili, the Country House of the Buonaparte Family-The Great Ilex Tree-The Deserted Gardens-Thoughts at Mellili-Revisit the Rocks of St. Antoine-Set Off on a Third Tuur-Good Road along the Valley of the Gravone-Laden Timber Carts-Gardens and Cultivation-Burned Forest of Vero-Cloud and Rain-Reach Bocoguano-The Café des Amis -M. Berlandi-His Account of People Lost in the Forests-Weather Clear, and shows Monte d'Oro magnificently-Imposing and Grand Scenery@-@Great Chesnut Woods-Visit to the House whence Napoleon Escaped@-Tranquil and Sombre Character of the Landscape and Villages-Leave Bocognano-Pass between Monte d'Oro and Monte Renoso-Beautiful View from the Top of the Bocca or Pass-Burned Forest of Vizzavona-Descent to the Village of Vivario-Domenico and Flora are found there-No Room in the Hotel-Decide on going on to Ponte del Vecchio-Reach Serraggio-Very Beautiful Scenery-Pass Lugo and Sta. Maria di Venaco-Chesnut Woods-Descent to the Valley of the Tavignano-Approach to Corte-Its Appearance-Citadel Bridge-Interior of the Town-Fête and Confusion-No Room in the Hotel-Diffi@culty in obtaining Lodgings-M. Corteggiani-A Small Locanda found-Porters of Corte@-A Sleepless Night@ Difficulty experienced in Drawing Landscape@-@Call on M. Corteggiani@-Visit to the House of Gaffori, Citadel, c.-Views of Corte-Dinner at M. Corteggiani's -Corte from above the River Tavignano-Statue of Paoli-Red Deer-View of Corte from the Bastia Road-Leave Corte-White Umbrellas-Road along the Valley of the Tavignano-Distant view of the Fiumorbo Plains and Casabianda-Halt to Draw Aleria@-Arrive at Casabianda -Kind Reception by M. and Mdme. Beurville-M. de la Hitolle-Pleasant Dinner and Evening-French Riddles-Early Rising and Drawing-Noble View of the Plains and Mountains-Leave Casabianda-Memories of the Roman Campagna-Undu@lating Plain-Deserted Tracts of Country -Bee Eaters-Approach to Cervione-Cultivation-Pleasant Lanes and Green Foliage-Reach Cervione-Its Position-The Inn-Return to the Bastia Road-Turn off towards Vescovato-Walk up to the Town-Beautiful Approach@@-Numerous Peasants returning Home-Picturesque Appearance of Vescovato-M. Gravie's Lodging-His Conversation@ to the Bastia Road -Valley and Bridge of the Golo-Étang de Biguglia-City of Mariana-Great Cultivation, and Increase of Population@-Diligences-Cemetery-Arrive at Bastia-Lively Appearance of Bastia-Hôtel de France-Description of the Town and Port-Gourds and Chains-Plans for the rest of Corsican  Day in the Vicinity of Bastia-Difficulty of Drawing in a High Road@-Leave Bastia for Cap Corse-Sea-shore Road -Distant View of Elba-Capo Sagro@-@Sisco-Valley of Luri@-Village of Piazza di Luri-Madame Cervoni's tidy and pleasant House@-Luri is to be the farthest point I visit in the North of Corsica -White Wine of Luri-Silkworms-Industry of Cap Corse-Visit to Seneca's Tower-Ascent-Great Beauty of the Valley-Road to Pino-@Tablet in the Rock-Capuchin Convent-View from it-M. Tomei-Leave Piazza di Luri and return to  CHAPTER X. Leave Bastia-Ascent-Gardens-View over the Plain of Biguglia-Range of the Nebbio Hills-Gulf of St. Florent-Pass between Rocks-Town of St. Florent-Hôtel des Passageurs-Arrival of Ironclads-Solitude around St. Florent-Picturesque Houses-Excellent Cheer at M. Donzella's Inn-New Beds-Leave St. Florent-Scenery on the North of Corsica-Approach to Île Rousse its Picturesque Bay and Rocks-Interior of the Town@-@Hôtel De Giovanni-The demure Waitress -Leave Île Rousse-Algayola, its deserted appearance-Beautiful Scenery of the Balagna-Village of Lumio-Bay of Calvi, and approach to the Town@-Legend of the imprudent Bishop-Forsaken condition of Calvi its Fortifications@-Civility of Corsican innkeepers-Calvi the Faithful-Neighbourhood of Calenzana@. Ma Mournful Decay-Sadness of Corsican Singing-The Road along the Upper Balagna-Extreme Richness and Beauty of Scenery-Claude-like Landscapes@-Cheerfulness of the Valleys, and profuse Vegetation-Lavatoggio and other Villages-Views of Cap Corso from Muro of Balagna-Pretty Churches and Architecture-Numerous Hamlets@-Approach to Belgodere, and difficulty of finding a Hotel there-Position of the Village-Friendliness of M. Malaspina, Maire of Belgodére-His Hospitable House and pleasant Family@-Leave the Maire's House-Change of Scenery-Descent to the Valley of the Asco-The Broken Bridges-Village of Ponte della Leccia its very indifferent Accommodation and unlively Appearance-Regret at not being able to visit Morosaglia, the Birthplace of General Paoli-Return to Corte-Difference between the Inns of the Country and of the Towns of Corsica.  to Venaco, and Walk to Lugo and Serraggio-Visit to the Moufflon-Mid-day Halt in a Chesnut Wood-Blackbirds and Nightingales-Thunderstorm-Return to Vivario@@-The Hotel there-The Handsome Daughters of the Landlady-Praises of Miss C.-Fine Weather and Return late to Ponte del Vecchio-Grand Scenery near it-Leave Vivario-Ascent to the Forest of Sorba-Another Beautiful Forest-Distant View of the Plains of Fiumorbo-Arrival at Ghisoni-Smartness of its Hotel-Rain and Storm-Gloomy Position of Ghisoni-The Road to the Forest of Marmáno-Great Rocks of Kyrie Eleison-The Convict Settlement or Penitencier in the Pine Forest-Doctor Casanova-Early Morning in the Forest of Marmano-The. Col de Verde and Long Descent to Cozzano-Loss of a Horse-shoe, and Delay-Unruly Charcoal Burners -Great Valley of Guitera-Hotel of the Baths-Hot Springs of Guitera-The Pleasant Waitress -Ascent to Zicavo Description of the Villages@-Return to Guitera-Beautiful Valleys between Guitera and the Sea-Santa Maria Zicché-Return to Grosseto, Cauro, and Ajaccio-Leave Ajaccio for Nice@ CHAPTER I. Passage from Nice to Corsica-Les lies Sanguinaires, and Entrance to the Gulf of Ajaccio-Cemetery-First Impressions on Landing at Ajaccio-Helix Tristis-Hotels-Hôtel de Londres-Dress of Corsicans-The Cours Grandval-Beautiful Scenery near the City-Napoleon's Grotto-Picturesque Vegetation-Walk along the Shore to the Campo Santo-Loneliness of the Neighbourhood of Ajaccio-Italian Dialect in use by the People@-@Information about Carghésé, the Greek Colony in Corsica-Unfavourable Weather-The Eastern Harbour of Ajaccio-Tomb of Pozzo di Borgo-Scattered Tombs or Monuments-The Place Letitia-M. Galloni d'Istria, his Assistance and Information-Speculations as to the Best Mode of Seeing all Corsica-Decide on Hiring a Carriage -The Three Students, and their Purchases-Arrangements as to Route, Baggage, c.-Celebra@tion of Easter in Ajaccio@-Views from the Walks near Napoleon's Grotto, their great Beauty-Plague of Little Boys-Miss C. and her Interest in Corsica-Morning Studies above the Cours Grandval-Broccio, or Cream-cheese-Gourds-The House where Napoleon I. was Born-Letters of Introduction. April 8, 1868.-@It seems a pity to leave Cannes just as the most pleasant and beautiful season is beginning but if a sketching tour is to be made in Corsica, this is the right and perhaps the only time to choose, at least if all parts of the island are to be visited earlier, the snow would have made the higher districts unavailable to the landscape painter later, the heat would prevent work being easy or possible. So I close my rooms in M. Guichârd's house, and say good-bye for the present to the cheerful town and its quiet bay, with the beautiful Esterelles on the horizon. Off by rail to Nice, whence every week a steamer starts for Corsica, going alternately to Ajaccio on the west coast, and to Bastia on the east. This week Ajaccio is the point, and the Insulaire is to leave the port at eight P.M., a roomy and well appointed steamboat, fares thirty-one and twenty-one francs for first and second class places. I go from the pier at seven, and on reaching the boat meet with a pleasant surprise in finding my friend J. A. S., with Mrs. J. S. and the little Janet already on board. Meanwhile clouds cover the sky-so bright and clear all day-the wind rises before we are fairly of@f at 8.30, and instead of the smooth sea, full moon@light, and other delicacies of a night voyage fondly hoped for, the most ugly forebodings are heard concerning a rough passage, whereby the  always a miserable sailor, begins to repent of his decision to draw all Corsica, and, were it possible, would fain return to land. But it is too late and the only alternative is to cultivate sulkiness and retreat instantly to bed the cabin will be at least a tolerably quiet one, for of passengers there are but few. Neither on deck is any living being left but two fat and perpetually backwards-and-forward trotting poodles. April 9.-The night voyage, though far from pleasant, has not been as bad as might have been anticipated. He is fortunate, who, after ten hours of sea passage can reckon up no worse memories than those of a passive condition of suffering-of that dislocation of mind and body, or inability to think straight@forward, so to speak, when the outer man is twisted, and rolled, and jerked, and the movements of thought seem more or less to correspond with those of the body. Wearily go by The slow sad hours that bring us all things ill, and vain is the effort to enliven them as every fresh lurch of the vessel tangles practical or pictorial suggestions with untimely scraps of poetry, indistinct regrets and predictions, couplets for a new Book of Nonsense, and all kinds of inconsequent imbecilities-after this sort-Would it not have been better to have remained at Cannes, where I had not yet visited Theoule, the Saut de Loup, and other places ? Had I not said, scores of times, such and such a voyage was the last I would make ? To-morrow, when morn broadens on the borders of the dark, shall I see Corsica's snowy mountain tops fringing the Eastern sky ? Did the sentinels of lordly Volaterra see, as Lord Macaulay says they did, Sardinia's snowy mountain-tops, and not rather these same Corsican tops, fringing the southern sky ? Did they see any tops at all, or if any, which tops ? Will the daybreak ever happen ? Will two o'clock ever arrive ? Will the two poodles above stairs ever cease to run about the deck ? Is it not disagreeable to look forward to two or three months of travelling quite alone ? Would it not be delightful to travel, as J. A. S. is about to do, in company with a wife and child ? Does it not, as years advance, become clearer that it is very odious to be alone ? Have not many very distinguished persons, OEnone among others, arrived at this conclusion ? Did she not say, with evident displeasure-And from that time to this I am alone, And I shall be alone until I die@ those poodles ever cease from trotting up and down the deck ? Is it not unpleasant, at fifty-six years of age, to feel that it is increasingly probable that a man can never hope to be otherwise than alone, never, no, never more ? Did not Edgar Poe's raven distinctly say, Nevermore ? Will those poodles be quiet ? Quoth the raven, nevermore. Will there be anything worth seeing in Corsica ? Is there any romance left in that island ? is there any sublimity or beauty in its scenery ? Have I taken too much baggage ? Have I not rather taken too little ? Am I not an idiot for coming at all ?--Thus, and in such a groove, did the machinery of thought go on, gradually refusing to move otherwise than by jerky spasms, after the fashion of mechanical Ollendorff exercises, or verb-catechisms of familiar phrases--Are there not Banditti ? Had there not been Vendetta ? Were there not Corsican brothers ? Should I not carry clothes for all sorts of weather ? Must THOU not have taken a dress coat ? Had HE not many letters of introduction ? Might WE not have taken extra pairs of spectacles ? Could YOU not have provided numerous walking boots ? Should THEY not have forgotten boxes of quinine pills ? Shall WE possess flea-powder ? Could YOU not procure copper money ? May THEY not find cream cheeses ? Should there not be innumerable moufflons ? Ought not the cabin lamps and glasses to cease jingling ? Might not those poodles stop worrying ?@thus and thus, till by reason of long hours of monotonous rolling and shaking, a sort of comatose insensibility, miscalled sleep, takes the place of all thought, and so the night passes. At sunrise there are fine effects of light and cloud but, alas for my first impression of that grand chain of Corsican Alps about which I have heard so much, and which were to have been seen so long before reaching the island ! Nothing is visible at present beyond the leaden, unlovely waves, except a low line of dark gray-green coast, and above this there are glimpses from time to time between thick folds of cloud, disclosing for a moment mysterious phantom heights of far snow and rock, or here and there some vast crag dimly seen and less remote, imparting a sensation of being near a land of lofty mountains, but none of any distinctness or continuity of outline.  As the steamer approaches the island, cape after cape is passed, and on one a village is seen, which the pilot tells me is Carghésé, the Greek settle@ment, of which I had heard from M. Prosper Merimée. The coast is deeply indented in bays and gulfs, and so far as cloud allows of seeing inland, seems remarkable for its greenness. About ten we arrive at the pointed rocky islets called Les Îles San@guinaires, and passing between them and the Punto della Parata, enter the Gulf of Ajaccio. 1 The islands, on one of which there is a lighthouse, are picturesque but the weather has now become cold and windy, and the gulf, presumed by the enthusiastic to be ever lake-like and placid, is anything but calm or beautiful on the contrary, its aspect is gloomy, and its  Thick clouds hide all the hills, and this beginning of Corsican travel is certainly far from  proceed along the north side of the gulf, and pretty near the shore. Cl by nature@... Its sheltered and excellent port might become one of the first arsenals of Europe. The capital city of Corsica is, however, but an embryo, placed in a desert, with numerous new promenades, detached rows of Government buildings, and hardly any streets, a garrison, employes, and very few inhabitants. In spite of a certain pompous exterior, Ajaccio, which should contain a population of 40,000, does not succeed, c.-@Valery, i., p. 152. Ajaccio lies at the northern end of a gulf reckoned among the finest in the world. Its two coast lines are of unequal length the northern one is shorter, and runs on in a westerly direction as far as the Punto della Parata, a point of land opposite which are the Isole Sanguinarie the southern side of the gulf trends from N. to S. with many curves, as far as Cape Muro, sailing round which you come into the bay of Valinco.@.@... The new town, with the citadel, was founded by the Bank of St. George of Genoa, in the year 1492.-Gregorovius, p. 346. The Port of Ajaccio, situated at the head of the gulf of the same name, is incontestably the greatest  at the water's edge is a line of buildings, some so small as to be not unlike bathing machines others re@sembling tiny dwellings, or rather those little places of worship, Ebene@zers or Houses of Sion, observable in many English villages but these are neither. They are tombs, small chapels, or sepulchral monuments, forming the Campo Santo, or ceme@tery of Ajaccio, 2 but the pilot tells me that it is a more general usage in Corsica for the inhabitants to bury their relatives either on their own family property or in some conspicuous spot near their dwellings, thus never removing far from the living the memories of those who were with them in life. Presently we near the head of the gulf, where Ajaccio stands out gloomy and gray on a point of land that forms an inner and an outer harbour. The city does not appear promising in a picturesque point of view, though on this boisterously windy  bottom is excellent throughout. It includes three anchorages one at the side of the citadel of Ajaccio, the second opposite the city, the third at the head of the gulf, 1,500 metres from Ajaccio. -Grandchamps, p. 90. The Gulf of Ajaccio, like many others, has been compared to the Bay of Naples but, I think, without much reason, except for the colouring lent by a brilliant and transparent atmosphere to both sea and land.-Forester, p. 217. I agree with Mr. Forester.-E. L. 2 The neighbouring heights of Ajaccio are covered with detached little white cupolas, standing picturesquely above vineyards and other verdure. These cupolas, which have something of an oriental look, and recall Mussulman cemeteries, serve as tombs for different families-such is the custom of the country-on their own land. The brightness of these little buildings contrasts sadly with the gloom of the houses of the living.@-@Valery, i., p. 181.  and sunless, and when the surrounding scenery is blotted and half hidden by clouds, it is premature to judge finer weather may change my  eleven we are anchored not far from the city boats come off to take the passengers, and I fancy that every one of these leave the Insulaire with pleasant recollections of its clean and good arrangements, and its careful and attentive captain and pilot, possibly, too, of the pair of funny little poodles continually trotting about its deck. On a nearer approach Ajaccio3 does not seem to me to present any special beauty or interest no charm either of colour or architecture in public or other buildings salutes the eye of the painter. There are lines of  many very handsome streets and beautiful walks, a citadel, and a palace for the Genoese governor. The inhabitants of this town are the genteelest people in the island, having had a good deal of intercourse with the French. In Ajaccio are the remains of a colony of Greeks settled in Corsica, c.-Boswell, p. 25. The general plan of the town is very simple. One broad street leads from the sea to the barracks another nearly as wide, but much shorter, cuts the former at right angles besides these there are many subordinate streets extremely narrow and dirty.-Benson, p. 3. Ajaccio is situated on a tongue of land, the point of which is occupied by the castle. Next to this follows the town, extending also in both directions along the gulf.@.@. The houses are high, but without any fine architecture the gray Venetian blinds, which are preferred in Corsica instead of the bright green ones of Italy, are characteristic features they give a dull and monotonous expression to the houses. All the more considerable houses of the Corso stand on the right hand side entering from the Bastia road , the little theatre, the prefecture, and the barracks. I was surprised by the rural stillness in all these streets of Ajaccio their names only appeal to the traveller, and tell the story of Napoleon-Cours and Rue Napoleon, Rue Fesch, Rue Cardinal, Place Letitia, Rue Roi de Rome.@.@. Parallel with the Cours Napoleon runs the Rue Fesch the former leads on to the broad Place du Diamant, which commands a fine view of the gulf and its southern shore the latter ends in the market-place and leads to the harbour. These, and one which runs at right angles to the other two, are the chief streets of Ajaccio small by-lanes unite them, and traverse the tongue of land.@.@. Ajaccio is a land and sea town at the same time-you live in the midst of nature.-Gregorovius, p. 347. Ajaccio is the oldest town in Corsica. In 1420 Alphonso of Arragon was welcomed there. At that time it stood further towards the end of the gulf, but for reasons of health it was rebuilt in its present situation about 1490. In 1506 it was ineffectually besieged by pirates, and taken by the French in 1553. In 1794 Ajaccio was taken by Paoli, and evacuated by the English in 1796. Napoleon I. has endowed his native town with benefits he created its fountains, constructed its quays, and finished the road from Ajaccio to Bastia.@.@.@. The softness of the climate, the beauty of the gulf, the purity of the sky, and the majestic aspect of the mountains which surround and shelter it from the north, all indicate it as a haunt of those-idle or invalid-who love to frequent the cities of the south. In summer the gulf and land breezes temper the heat, and sea-bathing would be at Ajaccio as salubrious as at Cette or Marseilles. During the night the atmosphere is of an incomparable clearness, and the air from the mountains brings with it the perfumes of the maquis. In one word, Ajaccio unites all that can attract and retain strangers all that is required is to embellish it, c.@.@. Fashion, good hotels, and doctors in repute, would do the rest.@.@.@. It is difficult to meet elsewhere with more picturesque and varied scenery the highest mountains of Corsica stand like an amphitheatre around the Gulf of Ajaccio, the loftiest and farthest peaks cutting the sky in sharp and defined lines the landscape, severe and grand, is enlivened by the boats of the gulf and the smoke of the brushwood or maquis from fires lighted by shepherds on the hills. Sepulchral chapels relieve the dark verdure of the myrtle and olive, and the snowy summits of the d'Oro and Rotondo rising afar off complete this magnificent picture.-Grandchamps, p. 25. The commercial future of Ajaccio depends on the utilisation of the valleys of the Gravona and the Prunelli but, separated as this city is by the highest mountains from the eastern side of the island, its influence on Corsica will always be limited. The great size of the gulf makes it difficult to defend,  lofty, and bulky houses-they may be likened to great ware@houses, or even to highly magnified dominoes-with regular rows of windows singularly wanting in embellishment and variety but there is no wealth of tall campanile or graceful spire, no endless arches or perforations or inde@scribable unevennesses, no balconies, no galleries, as in most parts of Italy, in the dull lines of buildings here no fragmentary hangings, no stripes, no prismatic gatherings of inconceivable objects, far less any gorgeous hues, as in eastern worlds. Perhaps the place I thought of at first as being likest to Ajaccio was Rapallo, on the Riviera di Levante, a town, if I remember rightly, one of the least gay or ornamented on that beautiful coast. Still more striking is the absence of colour, and of any peculiarity of costume in the dress of both sexes.4 Almost all are in black, or very dark brown, and, to a new comer who has travelled in the East and South, everything has a dull and commonplace, not to say a mournful, air. The boatmen who convey me, my man, and luggage, to the shore, are quiet and solemn and, on reaching the landing-place-ah, viva ! once more the solid ground !-the sober propriety of demeanour in the groups standing round is remarkable the clamour and liveliness of an Italian port, the wildness and splendour of an Eastern quay are alike wanting the coun@tenances of both men and women are grave, and the former have an inactive and lazy manner so that, whether or not I am prejudiced by the damp and overcast gloom of the day, my first impressions of the Gulf of Ajaccio and of the capital of Corsica are not of a lively character. Among the notes I have had forwarded to me by the last post from friends in England who knew of my coming to this island, are some written by a naturalist, who mentions, among other creatures peculiar to Corsica, the Helix tristis and, in my present mood, I feel that the melancholy snail was right when he chose a sympathetic dwelling. No trouble whatever is given at the Custom House the officials are civil and obliging. I walk on up a broad street, leading to an open place or square-where, or near which, I am told, the best hotels are to be found -in search of a lodging to the right a street stretches along the quay, to the left appears to stand the more populous part of the city. On the way  Ajaccio depend on the drainage and cultivation of the plains of Campo dell'Oro, and on the impetus given to the neighbourhood by the presence of rich or invalid visitors.-@Grandchamps, p. 27. The cathedral, finished about 1585, in the form of a Greek cross, with a majestic cupola, recalls the good Italian architecture of that period. They show in it the font of white Luni marble where Napoleon was baptised the 21st of July, 1771, nearly two years after his birth, a custom not uncommon in Corsica. @@Valery, i., p. 156. 4 In the dress of the men of Corsica, the pointed velvet bonnet has almost entirely disappeared, and has given place to the woollen cap, to which the round cap of cloth is fast succeeding. The dress of the women is no longer what it was, the Corsican cloth, velvet, c., have given way to woollens of finer texture or muslins, and it is rarely only that in the present day women are met with dressed in their original and picturesque costume.@-@Galletti, p.  pass a large fountain, with lions how gloomily dressed are the women filling their water-jars ! but they carry them gracefully, and are well made-their features regular, and rather of a Greek type, except that the nose is longer.5 At the top of the street the Rue Napoleon is the Place du Diamant the large open space above alluded to , three-sided the fourth, open to the sea, containing the equestrian statue of Napoleon and those of his four brothers. And now, for the weather shows signs of clearing, the opposite or southern side of the gulf is for the first time visible. Out of this Grande Place du Diamant the Cours Napoleon opens. In it are barracks, the Prefecture, the theatre, the post, c., and the Hotel de l'Europe and at one of its corners stands the Hotel de France, to which I go, but only to find that it contains no vacant rooms. My next trial was at the Hotel de Londres, which stands in a small street at the north-west corner of the Place du Diamant, and is by no means so well situated as the last I had entered. Each of these inns occupies a single flat in a large square building. Here, although the entrance and staircase are very objectionable, being extremely dirty, and encumbered by small children who cling parasitically to the steps and balustrades, and though it is at once evident that the arrangements of the floor used as the hotel leave much to be desired, I find one very clean room looking to the front for myself, and one on the other side of the establishment for my servant. These are the only two unlet my own is far too near the kitchen to be agreeable-abundant noises, odours, and flies may be expected-yet, for one may go farther and fare worse, I order my luggage to be brought up-stairs, and settle myself for a sojourn of some days, the more readily that my first impressions of the owners of the inn are prepossessing. Valery's volume is the only book I have with me as a guide to Corsica, and from that I gather that Ajaccio will be my best point as head-quarters while I remain in the island. 1 P.M.-My host, M. Ottavi, has produced an excellent breakfast-fresh whitings, omelette, the famous broccio or cream cheese of Corsica, c. and it must be allowed that the assiduity of the landlord and his wife go far to atone for the shortcomings of their salles a manger -as various many-tabled roomlets or boxes are with dignity named. Other apartments there are, and of a larger size, but these are used by officers of the garrison, and other regular pensioners of the restaurant. @@6 Since breakfast, I have  they cannot generally be called so. They have, however, eyes of singular brightness, and long glossy hair.-Benson, p. 36. 6 It may be stated here that I had no reason to repent my decision, and that I cannot speak in too high terms of the Hotel de Londres, or of its proprietors, M. and Mdme. Ottavi. @Their constant atten@tion to the wants of their inmates as far as the limited nature of their hotel allowed, the extreme cleanli@ness of their rooms, the good qualities of their cookery, their reasonable charges, and their untiring civility and cheeriness, it is a pleasure to remember. Nor should the first-rate coffee of Madame be for@gotten the Ottavi had long kept an hotel at Algiers , nor the industry and good humour of Boniface, the waiter. 7  the Prefecture but M. Géry, the Préfet, to whom M. Merimée has kindly procured me two introductory letters, is in France so I leave these at the office of the Secretary-general, M. Galloni. The Prefecture, which stands back from the Cours Napoleon, in a garden, is the handsomest public building I have seen in Ajaccio. The backs of the houses here have many picturesque accompaniments denied to their bald staring fronts from my window in the hotel, as I look at the back or north side of the houses fronting the sea on the Place du Diamant, there are clusters of wooden balconies, little flights of glittering pigeons, and pigeon -@houses to suit, mysterious zig-zag lines of jars up and down the walls, unaccountably linked together like the joints of some mighty serpent, and various other small incidents of interest. On the whole, however, I feel happy that there is little or nothing for me to do in the way of street-scenery drawing at Ajaccio. HEAD-DRESS OF AJACCIO WOMEN. The day becomes finer crossing the spacious place by the equestrian statue of the first Emperor Napoleon, I go down to the sea by a broad car@riage road, which, at its outset, is sheltered by a pleasant avenue of plane trees, and afterwards leads on to the Capella de' Greci, and to the public cemetery which I had remarked in steaming up the gulf. I wander on-as is my way in coming to new places-in order that by seeing a little on all sides, the best sites for making characteristic drawings may be ascertained along this shore there are many beautiful bits, but chiefly about the small mortuary chapels, where cypress-trees and various shrubs flourish, and in the frequent combination of granite rocks with the sea and opposite gulf shore. Very few people seem about, though the city is so close by the cut of the peasant-women's dress is much like that of the Ionians, the skirt full, with many small plaits or folds, the boddice and short jacket close-fitting-a graceful costume, but in nearly all cases of a dark hue, brown or purple, more usually black. The elder women-@many of whose faces recall the portraits of Madame Mère-mostly wear a black handkerchief tied closely over the head but the younger,  so frequently pretty as they are particularly graceful, wear two handkerchiefs, the one tied round the forehead and fastened behind the head and of this kerchief only a portion of the front is seen , the other over the top of the head, fastened below the chin and falling on the back of the neck in a point like the head-dress represented in old Italian pictures. As for the men, they have a look as of porters or tradesmen out of work, carrying their hands in their pockets with what seems an idle and disconsolate air, and are in no wise picturesque or remarkable. Leaving the shore drive-for there is a broad and good road all along the sea-side for some miles-I ascend by a short cut to the Cours Grandval, a noble promenade leading from the Place du Diamant, opposite to the Rue Napoleon, of which in fact it may be called a continuation, since from its termination you may see the harbour and the quay at the other extremity, to the hills which shelter Ajaccio on its west side. This Cours Grandval is really fine a wide carriage road with a footpath on each side, and in its position, high above the sea, most beautiful and now that the clouds are lifting, disclosing a vast semicircle of lofty mountains at the head of the gulf, besides a pro@longed line of lower heights on its southern side, I begin to foresee that my opinions concerning Corsican scenery have yet to be formed-all the more that as I walk on I find a magnificent luxuriance of vegetation filling up, not only every portion of the gardens and of parts of the uncultivated space on each side of the Cours Grandval, but of the hills beyond, where a profusion of olive growth waves low down, and a rich carpeting of underwood or shrubbery clothes their sides higher up. Close to this beautiful, but appa@rently little-frequented promenade, stand the four houses lately built, known as Les Cottages and calling at one of these, Dr. Ribton's, I learn that my friends the J. S.'s are at the Hotel de l'Europe . Nearly opposite these four dwellings stands the fine house of M. Conti, Receveur-général and beyond them a large convent school seems at present nearly the only other building on the Cours Grandval, except a solitary house at its termination, where, so to speak, the city ends and the country begins. Going down again to the shore, I wander on to the Capella de' Greci.7 Now that the features of this gulf scenery are beginning to be discernible, though even yet the summits of all the higher mountains are cloud-covered, a grand and lofty serenity seems its character. Somehow, a kind of lonely 7 From the pretty church Del Carmine, called the Greek church, there is a superb view of the Gulf, the Îles Sanguinaires, and the mountains, which stretch as far as Cape Muro. The church has its name because in its neighbourhood were buried many Greeks who fought in a Genoese army defeated by the Corsicans. It was built at the commencement of the last century by Paul Emile Pozzo di Borgo. -@Valery, i., p. 168. Charming is the walk on the northern side of the gulf, along the strand..... There are many small chapels scattered about, of manifold shapes, round, quadrangular, domed, in the form of a sarcophagus, in that of a temple, surrounded by white walls, and among cypresses and weeping willows. There the dead have their country seats they are family vaults, their position on the coast in full view  forms part of the landscape, and it is difficult to realise the fact that one is in the near neighbourhood of a city. The vegetation is surprisingly beautiful and vigorous, especially that of the cactus, broom, cistus, myrtle, asphodel, and lentisk the almond-tree in full flower, and the fig-tree in leaf, showing how much warmer is the climate here than at Cannes or Nice, where as yet not a leaf of these trees is out. But-I speculate professionally-what can I make of Ajaccio itself as a drawing ? What though some of the very best views of the city are to be found along this walk by the shore and towards the end of the Cours Grandval, how are its blocks of houses seven stories high, square as ware@houses, white evenly spotted with black, to be wrought into material for the picturesque ? Possibly, at sunrise, when the light will be behind the buildings and all their poverty of good detail hidden, its general form may then be utilised as a single dark mass. Returning to the town and through the Place du Diamant, I walk along the Cours Napoleon, which runs eastward and at right angles to the Cours Grandval and the Rue Napoleon from it, numerous narrow lanes descend to the inner or east harbour, and to the Rue Fesch. But although perhaps there is more appearance of life in this broad street than in any other part of the city, I find little to admire in its uniform lines of tall houses, and am not sorry to come to the end of it, opposite what needs must be, when the mountains are unveiled-for all are now once more invisible-very grand views of the Gulf-head and the surrounding shores. But how rural-now that I have explored most parts of Ajaccio-does this city seem ! How little activity and movement in its streets ! How abounding with children, and how destitute of men ! How scantily furnished is the sea with craft ! How lazy seem a great portion of its inhabitants ! The brisk little French soldiers alone redeem the dulness of the town scenes, their bright red trousers almost the only gleam of colour in a world of black and brown their lively walk and discourse nearly the only signs of gaiety. City, quotha ! might it not, O sympathetic Helix tristis, rather be called a village ? Although my friends were out when I called at the Hotel de l'Europe, the landlady begged me to see all the rooms in her inn, consisting, like the other hotels here, of one large flat containing various apartments. The situation of the Hotel de l'Europe certainly has advantages which the de Londres cannot boast of but for all that, I do not regret having selected to live in the latter. At 6.30, having prowled and wandered till too tired to search any longer for  and their elegant form, produce a very cheerful and foreign picture. The Corsican is not fond of being buried in the public churchyard agreeably to the ways of the ancient patriarchs, he desires to be interred in his own land, among his own dear ones. From this cause the whole island is dotted over with little mausoleums, which often enjoy the most charming situations@ and enhance the picturesqueness of the landscape.-Gregorovius, p.  the picturesque, I return to Ottavi's, to rest, write, and think what can be extracted from Ajaccio as food for pencil and paint. The Gulf mountain lines seem unmanageable from their great length, and difficult to represent except by portions but perhaps a clear sky may show things differently to-morrow Bakalum we shall see , as the Turk says and being here for a purpose, all that is possible in topographic illustration must be tried. By the crowding of officers and others here, and by the narrowness of the allotted space, I am reminded of the inn at Cattaro in Dalmatia, and of@ frequenters and noises. The cook here, however, is a loftier artist than he at the foot of the Montenegrin mountain so the discomfort has its compensations. After the dry air of Cannes and Nice, how warm and damp does this  10, 5 A.M.-It is blowing a hurricane, and pouring with rain. A pleasant beginning for study in Corsica, O painter ! But at seven the rain ceases, and gleams of sunshine gladden the gulf@ I walk out, up to the end of the Boulevard or Cours Grandval, to make if possible a commencement of work, but find the wind far too high for any drawing. The solitary house, the last on the left hand on the road, now uninhabited, belonged, they tell me, to Cardinal Fesch, and here at one  Buonaparte family resided during summer, the great detached group of granite rocks a little farther on, known now by the name of Napoleon's Grotto, being, I suppose, at that time within the bounds of the garden.8 At present these form, one may say, the terminus of the Cours Grandval, and are very picturesque, their gray sides shaded by light olive trees, and surrounded by a wild growth of cactus and all sorts of verdure. At this hour the grotto, and all the neighbourhood of the old Buonaparte house, are gay with French soldiery, and resounding with bugles and drums, this being the practising ground for those art-students. From all about this spot are seen some of the best views of Ajaccio, and of the central chain of mountains, for the ground rises from the city to the end of the Cours Grandval, and commands most extensive prospects eastward the city, wholly in shadow, looks its best in early morning, as I guessed it would. Beyond the grotto, winding gravel paths lead downward to a most charming little dell you descend through a wilderness of heath, cistus, broom, and asphodel, till you come to gardens of fig and olive, when, passing one or two tiny cottages, you find yourself on the farther side of the little valley, whence other pleasant paths cross and border the hill sides down to the Campo Santo on the sea-shore carriage-road. Everywhere throughout these rambles there is a sensation of freedom-rarely do you see a creature-nothing interrupts the quiet. A flock of sheep and a shepherd are the only living things I have seen since I left the Cours Grandval the sheep are the first I have met with in Corsica, diminutive little beasts, all jetty black black, too, is the dress of their guardian. On by the sea to the Campo Santo the tombs which had appeared like dwellings from the steamer are very numerous and of every kind, from the large plain or ornamented chapel to the simple headstone or cross. Generally they exhibit good taste, often standing in a small detached garden, walled or railed round, and planted with shrubs and flowers. Many of these plots of ground are evidently kept with care. Beyond them a large space is marked. 8 At about a mile from Ajaccio one meets with two stone pillars, the remains of a doorway lead@ing up to a dilapidated country-house, formerly the property of Cardinal Fesch.@.@. This house was generally the summer residence of Madame Buonaparte and her family. Surrounded almost by the wild olive, the cactus, the clematis, and almond, is a very singular and isolated granite rock, called Napoleon's Grotto.@.@. The remains of a summer-house beneath the rock are still visible the entrance to it is nearly closed by a very luxuriant fig-tree. It was once Napoleon's favourite retreat, in which he fol@lowed his studies during the vacation allowed by the college of Brienne.-Benson, p. 9. I went to see the Casone, a large garden covered with olive trees and Indian figs, and in it is a grotto which enjoys some celebrity. Formed by great rocks, opposite the sea, and not unpicturesque, it has been held as the spot Where Napoleon used to meditate as an infant, and some enthusiastic travellers have visited it as such. I am sorry to destroy their illusions, but the Casone, an old villa of the Jesuits, which after their suppression passed to the State, was never possessed by the Buonaparte family except as national property.@-@Valery, i., p. 168. Near Ajaccio, in the old Jardin Casone, belonging to the Buonaparte family, is the grotto formed of great blocks of granite stone, where Napoleon I., when a child, often passed whole days studying his lessons.-Galletti, p.  out for a public cemetery, the practice of separate sepulchres in the vicinity of cities being, I am told, now prohibited, or about to be so in a short time. Passing these homes of the dead, the road runs on towards the lies San@guinaires, here in full view, but wind and cloud forbid all drawing to-day, so, giving up further exploring, I return only two or three peasants in rude carts, and some half a score on foot, all dressed in triste black, passing me on my way back to the city, so quiet and little frequented are these environs of Ajaccio. At the Hôtel de l'Europe I find my friends the J. S.'s preparing to migrate to-day to Dr. Ribton's. The longer I stay in Ajaccio the more I am surprised at the crowds of children, not so much in its streets as in the passages and doorways and on the stairs of the houses. These they lay claim to as their own particular property, and seem to think it odd if you ask them to allow you to pass nevertheless, it should be added that these little urchins are invariably civil and good-humoured. Another surprise to me is that everybody talks an Italian which is quite easy to understand, especially by one used to the dialects of Southern Italy-a facility of com@munication I was not prepared for, as I had heard the Corsican dialect described as a mere jargon, whereas it is not at all so. 11 A.M.-@To breakfast in one of the small salle a manger boxes. M. Ottavi is Corse, but has passed most of his life in Algiers Madame is of Strasbourg, but a Pole in origin both spare no pains to please, and are profuse of good food and wine-the latter a strong red sort, and not unlike a Burgundy in flavour. An elderly Corsican breakfasts in the same salle, who asks what part of the island I intend to see having, as yet, no fixed plan, I mention the Greek colony of Carghésé as one of the places I had some idea of visiting first. But, says my acquaintance, you would find that place triste ! To myself I added, Helix tristis ! If the capital is triste, why not the remote villages ? One of the Carghésé Greeks, it seems, has married this gentleman's daughter, and he obligingly offers me an introduction to him. You will, however, he adds, find no costumes in the present day at Carghésé the people there, who originally came from Maina, in the Morea, have for a long time past intermarried with Corsicans, and, although among themselves they keep up their own language, they can hardly, except in that one particular, be any longer called Greek. This is disappointing intelligence for I have been looking forward to brilliant Greek costumes as a set-off to the paucity of colour here. I decline the friendly offer of this gentleman-a M. Martinenghi-to inscribe my name in the cercle, or club for, should the weather become clear, there will be little enough time for drawing before June, none at all extra for dawdling or society -terms at certain times nearly  that my short stay there did not admit of seeing more of Corsican society what little I had the advantage of knowing was pleasant, hearty, and full of  air is as damp and chill as it used to be at Mountain Civitella di Subiaco after a two days' rain but I would it were as certain as it was wont to be there, that weeks of clear sunshine would follow this soft weather -there, where rain was so regularly succeeded by a bursting forth of light over that wild space of landscape from Olevano to Segni, one of the most beautiful scenes I have ever known. How would it be to pass whole months here, as of old one did in those Italian hills ? Would isolation and undisturbed study atone now, as then, for the want of society and much else ? Meanwhile, I write out all M. Prosper Merimée's and Mr. Hawker's notes for use, till, the rain holding up, I try to see the Secretary-general, but he is indisposto, and in bed. So I come back and give myself up to the fixed conviction that this is truly the land of the Helix tristis, the melancholy snail. Later, a most violent wind blows yet who can stay for ever indoors ? So I set out eastward, to explore some new ground, with G., cloaks, and a folio, in case there should be an opportunity of pencilling anything beyond the blackness of attire of men, women, and children, and the multitudinous congregating of the latter at doors and on stairs. All about the eastern or inner harbour many interesting drawings might be made, weather per@mitting but the boats partake of the unpicturesqueness of all things artificial in Corsica. Oh, for a few of the beautiful rainbow-tinted boats of Malta or Gozo ! But here, like the goats and the sheep, and the dress of the human beings, the boats, too, are all black ! Mems., zoological and others -Observe 1st. Goat tied to tail of a horse goat greatly disquieted by being obliged to gallop. 2ndly. Swallows in small parties, flitting about, battling with the fierce wind, or sitting puffily-ruffled upon the telegraph wires, saying, We have come to Corsica too soon. 3rdly. Many of the peasant women hereabouts wear low-crowned straw hats, like those in use at Antibes, but not so flat. High up, on one of the many hills-for the Gulf of Ajaccio is entirely backed by heights-is a lofty monument, and a wayside man informs one that it is the tomb of Count Andrea Pozzo di Borgo,10 who was a native  warm welcome I received at the only two gentlemen's houses where I stayed, I am convinced that the old hospitable virtues of the island are unaltered.@-E. L. @10 The house of the ancient family of M. Pozzo di Borgo is solid and well situated they show the one-windowed room where he was born.@-@Valery, i., p. 177. Pozzo di Borgo died in Paris, February 15, 1842.@-@Gregorovius. Two grenadiers deserted from a French regiment, auxiliaries of the Genoese, and fled to Alata, living in the Macchie, but secretly sustained by a goatherd. M. de Mozières, colonel of the regiment, having obtained a clue to their hiding-place, went to the shepherd's house, and interrogated his son Giuseppe on the subject, the young man finally accepting four louis d'ors as a bribe to betray the retreat of the deserters, which he did by pointing with his finger to certain rocks behind which they lay. The father of the young man, returning to his cabin, learned the treason, and having prepared his son for death shot him with his own hand.-Gregorovius, p. 397. One of M. Prosper Merimee's beautiful tales is founded on this incident.-E. L.  Alata, a village adjoining. Turning off from the main or Bastia road, one less wide leads to the left, and I follow it, as somewhat more sheltered it goes, they tell me, to two large convict establishments or penitenciers, called Castelluccio, and beyond that to Milelli, another old Buonaparte country house also to the chapel and rocks of St. Antoine, and to one or two more distant villages. And if there is no possibility of work, owing to the wind, at least this walk is interesting, as showing much beautiful land@scape all around-in depths of olive-grown valleys, in cultivation near at hand, and in glimpses of the eastern mountains, where, amid gloomy cloud, many grand and transient effects gleam out. The peasants, or, possibly gentry for all who pass me are dressed alike , are mostly riding the wiry little ponies for which the island is noted. Some of these persons wear hood-cloaks, like those used in Crete but generally they wear black cloth caps, black beards, and black velveteen dresses. Far down in the leafy valleys, and high up on the hill-sides, everywhere peer forth from the olive or ilex groves solitary tombs, many of them domed, and very much like Mahometan welys others are quaint little temple-like structures, or plain chapels. See notes pp. 5 and 10. But it becomes too tiresome to fight on against this furious wind, so by 5 P.M. I am again back at the city, and sit awhile with the S's-all three of us indulging in disrespectful remarks on the climate of Ajaccio in April, 1868, and half wishing we had never visited the native land of Helix tristis. Last of all I went to the Piazza Létitia, one side of which is formed by what was the family dwelling of the Buonapartes when Napoleon I. was born, in 1769. But this, the very greatest lion of Ajaccio, it is too late to see this evening yet one cannot contemplate even the outside of the house without feelings of singular interest. Nor, till now, did I know that the family occupied a palazzo of such size and of so much appearance of well-to-do condition. April 11, 5 A.M.-All is cloud and mist, and small seems the chance as yet of settled fine weather, though rain has fallen all night. But it clears later, as it did yesterday, and allows me a couple of hours for drawing at the end of the Cours Grandval, and at the Grotto of Napoleon, where the lichen-grown granite boulders are a picture, and the growth of vegetation on all sides charming. My work, however, is cut short by a sharp storm of hail, and for nearly ten minutes a fall of sleety snow makes the grotto a welcome refuge. As usual, they tell me such weather in April was never before known in Ajaccio ! but was not the same said to me, April 12, 1864, concerning the weather in Crete ? At 9, to the Prefecture, where I find M. Galloni d'Istria, the Secretary-general. This gentleman, whose time during the absence of M. le Préfet  fully occupied that I hardly expected him to be able to devote much atten@tion to the casual bearer of introductory letters, receives me with the greatest friendliness and the interest he takes in my desire to see Corsica thoroughly, and to portray its scenery, is very encouraging for the advice of one so inti@mately acquainted with every part of the island is invaluable. He suggests I should go to Sarténé, Bonifacio, and Porto Vecchio whence I may visit the forests of Spedale named to me by M. Merimée , then cross the mountains from Solenzaro, and return again to Sarténé by the pass and forest of Bavella. By this route, he tells me, I shall traverse some of the finest inland Corsican scenery, as well as visit the most interesting towns in the southern part of the island, and that the whole of the tour can be made in a carriage, provided it be a light one for the broad Route Impériale, or diligence road, does not cross the mountains at Bavella the last part of the journey, moreover, is not so certain to be effected if any heavy fall of snow should occur in the high forest passes. Nor did the active help of M. Galloni d'Istria cease here. He gave me a first-rate map of the island, and promises letters of introduction to persons residing in the places through which I must go while making the first tour he has thus indicated, and on my return to Ajaccio, he will provide letters to all other parts of the island I may wish to visit. It does not always happen that an artist's topographical tour should be so completely entered into and so warmly assisted by an official personage and I leave M. Galloni d'Istria, feeling not only much obliged to himself, but also to M Prosper Merimée for having so kindly procured letters for me to M. le Préfet. Returning to the hotel, after a visit to the J. S.'s, the next step is to decide finally in what mode of travelling I can best manage to make characteristic drawings of so large an island as Corsica during the short time at my disposal. Four plans present themselves, and it becomes urgent that I should fix on one of these, and carry it into execution. First-To go to the principal towns by Diligence-certainly a cheaper plan than any other. But as these public vehicles go by night as well as by day, the object of my visit-to study scenery-would be but half gained, nor, indeed, so much as half, for a diligence could not be stopped for the sake of drawing a landscape, though never so beautiful and many disadvantages, to wit, jolting, crowding, and dirt, would assuredly more or less interfere with work after some twenty-four hours' journey. Moreover, from Porto Vecchio or Solenzaro no Diligence roads cross the island, and once arrived at the first-named of those places, further progress would be stopped, as there are no vehicles for hire at all on the east side of the island, excepting at Bastia. Plan No. I is therefore abandoned. Secondly-To hire horses and ride doubtless, great freedom of action is ensured by such an arrangement. Yet against it there are numerous personal objections not to be overruled. So exit plan No. 2.  2. Thirdly-Luggage might be sent on by Diligence, and I might walk, my servant carrying folios and food for the day, a plan I have constantly worked out in Greece, Italy, Crete, c. But in Corsica this system could hardly be effected, for, from what I can learn, the towns are sometimes farther apart than even the longest day's walk could manage, and with no halting place between them very often too much time would thus be wasted in such a plan, because great portions of the island would probably not present any interest for the pencil. To go on foot through some of the forest scenery may be necessary but a quicker process for seeing and drawing the greater part of Corsica in ten weeks must be adopted. Fourthly-There remains this plan, on which, after looking at the matter in all its bearings, I finally decide-namely, to hire a two-horse carriage for the whole time of my stay, paying for it so much daily, and using it for long or for short journeys, either as there may be much or little to draw, or according to the distance of halting places. In this way I should be free to make drawings in the neighbourhood of the principal towns, or to make excursions from them to various points and if any scene on the high road could not easily be returned to, owing to too great distance, I might halt my vehicle while I worked, or perhaps oftener send it on and walk on the other hand, I could drive as quickly as possible through districts in which there is little of the picturesque. This plan of travelling, though apparently the most expensive, will economise time, and in the end, I believe, will prove the cheapest for my object in coming to Corsica being that of carrying away the greatest possible number of records of its scenery, the saving some outlay will not compensate for a meagre portfolio, and I might ultimately discover the least costly process to be also the least satisfactory. In support of which hypothesis a fable taught me long years ago by one dead and gone recurs to my memory. Once upon a time three poor students, all very near-sighted, and each possessing a single pair of horn-rimmed spectacles, set out to walk to a remote university, for the purpose of competing for a professorship. On the way, while sleeping by the road-side, a thief stole their three pairs of horn-rimmed spectacles. Waking, their distress was great they stumbled, they fell, they lost their way and night was at hand, when they met a pedlar. Have you any spectacles ? said the three miserable students. Yes, said the pedlar, exactly three pairs but they are set in gold, and with magnificent workmanship in fact, they were made for the king, and they cost so much-- Such a sum, said the students, is absurd it is nearly as much as we possess. I cannot, the pedlar replied, take less but here is an  which I can let you have for a trifling sum, and I strongly recommend you to buy it because it is such an astonishing bargain, and you may never again chance to meet with a similarly joyful opportunity. Said the eldest of the three students, I will grope my way on as I can. It is ridiculous to buy a pair of this man's spectacles at such a price. And I, said the second, am determined to purchase the ivory-handled frying-pan it costs little, and will be very useful, and I may never again have such an extraordinary bargain. But the youngest of the three, undisturbed by the laughter of the two others, bought the gold-rimmed sumptuous spectacles, and was soon out of sight. Thereon, No. I set off slowly, but, falling into a ditch by reason of his blindness, broke his leg, and was carried back, by a charitable passer-by in a cart, to his native town. No. 2 wandered on, but lost his way inextricably, and, after much suffering, was obliged to sell his ivory-handled frying-pan at a great loss, to enable him to return home. No. 3 reached the University, gained the prize, and was made Professor of Grumphiology, with a house and fixed salary, and lived happily ever after. Moral.-To pay much for what is most useful, is wiser than to pay little for what is not so. Two other matters have to be settled before starting to see all Corsica. First, the direction in which to travel, and the time at which to undertake certain tours and, secondly, the division of baggage, with regard to daily and nightly comfort. The first question has been already partly settled by M. Galloni d'Istria's advice, for it is doubtless best to commence with the southern coasts of the island, as in all probability the heat will be soonest felt there and thence, if possible, to see all that is necessary of the eastern plains, as, at the end of May, they begin to be malarious and unwholesome, that is, for a working painter since it is one thing to travel rapidly through feverish air, and quite another to sit drawing in it for several hours, or to halt in it when heated, c. Tours to the higher forests, and the centre of the island, may be postponed till all risk of snow and rain are passed. Next as to baggage. Not knowing in the least what sort of accommo@dation is to be met with, I shall carry a good supply. Dividing my roba, and leaving part of it with my host, M. Ottavi, I shall take lots of drawing material, and clothing for hot and cold weather, besides my small folding bed so that, with my servant's help, I may at least be as comfortable as in Albanian khans, Cretan cottages, or Syrian sheds. For it is certain that at fifty-six roughing it is not so easy as at thirty or forty, and if good rest at night is not to be procured, the journey may as well be given up, for  there would be an end of work. Last of all, a fitting carriage and driver are to be found, and price, c., agreed on. Here is a visit from M. Martinenghi he kindly offers to show me some pictures in his possession, some by Salvator Rosa, c., and appears con@founded at the little enthusiasm I express on the subject, and at my declining the proposal. In this hotel there resides an English lady-a Miss C.-who has not only been here for some months, but has visited many parts of the island and before I set off I shall venture on a visit to her, to get some hints about my journey. Noon.-What is going to happen ?-a remarkable clattering noise fills the air. I look out of window, and behold a torrent of children-a hundred, at least-all carrying bits of wood, which they knock, and bump, and rattle against all the railings, doorsteps, and walls, as their procession passes on. Now, in most southern places where Christians are desirous of celebrating Easter by triumphant noises, pistols and crackers are fired off at the proper time every one who has been in Rome at that season is aware of the uproar made on the Saturday preceding Easter Day and in the Maltese villages, at Alexandria, and other eastern cities, the hullabaloo is fearful. But here, in Corsica, no firearms of any sort are at present allowed to be in the hands of the people, and so the popular piety finds vent in this singular outburst of rattling pieces of wood, which, I am told, has a dim reference to Judas Iscariot, the thumps on the rails and stones being typical of what the faithful consider that person's bones, were he living, should receive.11 At I P.M. I go out to the broad Cours Grandval, and pass most of the afternoon in making drawings near the Grotto of Napoleon. For the day is now finer, the clouds higher, and the mountains at intervals nearly clear. The view over Ajaccio from this point is indeed fine the noble range of snowy heights beyond the head of the gulf rise magnificently above the city, and the ugliness of its detail is lost in the midst of so large and glorious a picture, of which it forms so small a part. The colour of this landscape, too, is very beautiful the deep-green clustering foliage in the middle distance, and the gray olives, the purple nearer the hills, and the dazzling white snow-line more remote, the calm blue of the sea to-day really lake-like , and the exquisite variety of vegetation in the foreground, combine to make one of the most delightful of scenes-one, however, by no means easy to convey a just idea of on paper. See Plate I. I feel that I am beginning to be fascinated by Corsica, and to discover that it is far fuller of landscape beauty than I had thought those long vistas  Good Friday, all the town resounded at noon with the discharge of guns and pistols from every window and every shop, in order to celebrate the glory of the Resurrection with greater distinction. One would have thought the town besieged and being taken by assault@-@Valery, i., p. 156.  valley and mountain must needs contain stores of interest and novelty, and far away the high silver Alp-like points speak of grand and majestic scenery, well worth an effort to visit, all of which has been hidden until now by the thick cloud-covering of the distant hills. At 5.30, after a peep at the J. S.'s in their new dwelling at Dr. Ribton's, in one of the four cottage villas, I went up the hill on the north side of the town, immediately above the Hotel de Londres there are very charming walks among olive trees here, as well as on an open kind of common, where cactus growth and granite boulders form a thousand ready-made foregrounds. This is one of the most striking views I have yet seen in the neighbourhood of Ajaccio far below lies spread out the whole city and the broad gulf, across which you look to the high range of hills stretching out to Capo Moro, while to the east the gorge of Bocognano and the lofty snow-topped walls which shut in the valley of Bastelica rise in great splendour and beauty. The line of the hill cape opposite is, however, one only to be managed in a picture with delicacy, by breaking it with cloud shadows, for its uniform length is wanting in variety of outline. Pitifully barren of interest is the city as to architecture. In what place along the two Riviere, or the Gulf of Spezzia-or, indeed, in what part of Italian coast scenery in general-should one not feel a desire to sketch some arch, some campanile, or even the whole town or village ? Here, on the contrary, you seek to avoid drawing a space literally filled by great warehouse-like buildings, unrelieved in the slightest way except by parallel lines of windows. This, and the gloomy darkness of the dress of both sexes, are certainly drawbacks to Ajaccio in a picturesque sense. At dinner, M. Ottavi tells me that from fifteen to twenty-five francs daily may be asked for a two-horse carriage. But he is to enquire further. April 12, 6 A.M.-At the end of the Cours Grandval. The morning is lovely, and there is a delicious fresh and light mountain-air sort of feeling in the atmosphere. The distant heights are absolutely clear, a wall of opal, and to-day, for the first time, I see this remarkable view in perfection. No amount of building, even should this part of Corsica become eventually as villa-covered as Mentone or Cannes, Torquay or Norwood, can ever affect the character of this exquisite prospect, which depends on elements far above all risk of change on the wide extent of its horizon and on the great majesty of the two dark ranges of hills opposite, connected by a line of heights still loftier, conveying a forcible impression of the solemn inner mountain life of the island on the broad and generally placid gulf on the long and marked form of the hills to the south side of it and on the wide expanse of water towards the western sea. All these cannot alter. The olive-grown slopes, the almond groves, the gardens, and the breadth of shrubby wilderness and high cactus may disappear, but the general aspect of the distance  Why, I ask myself, do people compare this Gulf to the Bay of Naples ? To me it seems that no two places more dissimilar can exist. Scarcely any one comes to this part of the neighbourhood of Ajaccio a few boys and girls are seen searching for wild asparagus, and one or two individuals with surprising chimney-pot hats taking a morning walk. So till nine I draw quietly, and, after a talk with the J. S.'s, return to the town and get letters from the post. If I wanted any confirmation of my resolve not to go about the island in diligences, I could have none better than an examination of the vehicles which start at II A.M. for Sarténé and Bonifacio, for Vico, and for Bastia via Corte. To be shut up in one of these might be endured if duty or necessity so ordered but on no other consideration whatever. On coming back to the hotel the plague of little boys bursts forth again in a new phase. It pleases some twenty to have instituted a blockade inside the street-door of the house, and the fun is to hold it closed against the battering and hammering of some twenty outside, wholly irrespective of the interests of the frequenters of the establishment and this lasts till the outer party conquer and the door is beaten in, when the calamity ceases, and a passage up-stairs becomes possible. At no time does the impression of multitudinous little-boyhood leave me in Ajaccio no sooner am I up-stairs than I happen to look beyond the houses of the Place du Diamant towards two high and slanting walls following the direction of the steep hill-side hard by. Now, in any other place where I ever was, such walls would be infested by cats, or pigeons, or swallows but here I count twenty-eight little boys, all crawling up the wall-tops after the fashion of lizards, and sliding down again-which pastime goes on all day long. M. Galloni d'Istria pays me a visit, and obligingly goes over the ground I am about to visit on the Government map with me. He quite concurs with me as to the advantage of a carriage tour, and recommends me to stay first at Sarténé, one of the four Sous-préfectures of the island, and where, by means of letters he will supply me with, I can learn more definitely from M. le Sous-Inspecteur of Forests, what may be the condition of the high passes as to snow in the neighbourhood of the Forest of Bavella, through which I am to return to Ajaccio. He recommends me to visit the plains on the east side as early as I can, on account of their great unhealthiness late in the season, and to leave the high forests on the west and in the centre of the island till the snow is melted and the chesnut woods out in leaf. I decide, therefore, to start on the 14th or 15th, if, meantime, I can find a carriage to suit me. 2 P.M.-To the Necropolis on the sea-shore road. Many of these tomb-temples are very pleasing in form, and the view from the last of them looking back to the gulf head and mountains is striking. They stand all along the shore, at the foot of the hills which form the northern side of the gulf,  Punto Parata, separated by the carriage-road from the granite rocks that stretch out into the sea, a sad but picturesque landscape, and one somewhat recalling the Via Appia or other sepulchre-bordered roads. See Vignette, p. 5. Beyond the Campo Santo all along the road-side the growth of myrtle, lentisk, cactus, and asphodel, is luxuriant beyond description and the lies Sanguinaires form numberless combinations with such foregrounds. Masses of pale granite, covered in part with cystus, are at the outer edge of the road, and run out into the gulf in spurs, white foam breaking over them and catching the sunlight, while the pointed islets on the horizon gleam darkly purple against the deepening sky tints. See Vignette, p. 4. Returning, there are more persons walking, as it is a fête day, than I have yet seen in the neighbourhood of Ajaccio. The head-dress of the women, so graceful and becoming, is generally, among those not in mourning, of buff or purple, with a broad white border. The short Greek spencer and fluted dress is most frequently worn, though there are a few of more modern or fashion@able cut. I observe hardly any girls whom one might call beautiful, but nearly all have a very pleasing expression and a look of intelligence. Among the gloomily dressed men, a group of French soldiers here and there in red and blue form a pictorial relief. In the town the small-boy plague has gone into another form to-day, besides the passage-swarming and door-blocking. Crowds of urchins have taken to rushing to and fro with small barrows with shrilly shrieking wheels each barrow contains three small Corsicans, and is pushed and pulled by twice as many more. After dinner I visit Miss C., whose acquaintance indeed is well worth culti@vating. Her interest in Corsica and all it contains is extreme. The collection of plants and natural history she has made in the island, and her drawings of the numerous fish found here, must have fully occupied her leisure through the winter she has already accomplished some long mountain excursions, and really knows the island well. A person uniting great activity of mind, physical energy, good judgment and taste, as this lady appears to do, and bent on introducing Corsica to the English South-seeking public, may really become instrumental in bringing about great changes in Ajaccio. April 13, 5 A.M.-Off once more to the cactus and asphodel lands beyond the Cours Grandval, to finish or proceed with drawings mountains perfectly clear-gorgeous purple, silver, and blue. I doubt if any double range can be finer, what though the refinement of Greek outline and the contrast of plains be wanting. If the city were tolerably supplied with picturesque architecture, few finer subjects for a painting could be found, so good is the middle distance of trees, so rich and varied the foreground vegetation. I work, too, this morning at another drawing nearer the city, and quite on the shore  this view is very imposing, the vulgar detail of the houses being hidden in shade, and the high snow mountains appearing to rise directly above them. M. Galloni has not yet sent the promised budget of letters neither have I found a carriage so it seems clear that a start to-morrow cannot be accom@plished. The landlord here asks me if he shall give me a letter of intro@duction to some banditti, a few of whom are still known to live in the Macchie, or woods of the interior. They are rich, says M. Ottavi, ils ne manquent rien-they have plenty of sheep and do nobody any harm. But Madame O., on the contrary, says, Ah, je vous prie donc, ne vous en allez pas, ils vous abimeront !-do not go, I implore you, they will destroy you ! At breakfast time my host and hostess generally supplies one of the broches, or broccie@12, a sort of cheese or preparation of milk, for which Corsica is famous it is made of sheep's milk, and is precisely the same as the Ricotta of Italy. Generally it is eaten with sugar. With fresh fish, broccie, and the good ordinary red wine for daily fare, might not a painter do well to come here-air and landscape being such as they are ? Already I begin to feel infected by Corsica-mania, the more that the quiet of the country adjoining this city reminds me of Olevano and Civitella and other mountain places where I studied painting in early days. Assuredly Ajaccio is a place where activity and bustle are little known very seldom you see a carriage in its streets, barring those of the postal service and even carts are rare objects. By-and-by comes the man who is to let me the carriage and two horses. We agree on the price, fifteen francs a day-this is to include all expenses of driver and horses, and I am to pay neither more nor less, whether I remain stationary or use the trap daily. To-morrow I am to make a trial excursion. It is discovered that my man Giorgio of whom, in some twelve or thirteen years' service, there exists no tradition of his having been known to forget anything , has left my flask on board the steamer, so we must take to gourds, which, indeed, are the popular and appropriate media for carrying fluid in Corsica. Almost every peasant carries one, slung to his shoulder by a string those in common use are generally of large size, but there are others smaller, very pretty and delicate, and these, when polished and finished with silver stoppers and chains, are really elegant. 2 P.M.-What is there to do ? There is Napoleon's house to be seen or rather that in which he was born. So, not being in an industrious  following way. The milk which drains from the cheese is heated in a copper with a certain quantity of pure milk, and is stirred with a large spoon. The pure milk becomes condensed by slow degrees, care being taken to skim off the scum produced by the boiling, and then the condensed part is taken up in the large spoon and placed in moulds, which are made of fine rushes woven together, and is left for some time to drain and to cool. @The price of the fresh cheese varies from twenty to forty centimes the pound. The broccio, which is more highly appre@ciated, is sold at from forty to sixty centimes the pound.@-@Galletti, p. 49.@ I had intended , I go to the Place Létitia, a small square, of which, as I before mentioned, the Casa Buonaparte forms almost the whole of one side. Although I confess to having gone to this sight with a kind of routine or duty feeling, the visit gave me very great pleasure. The house-there is now an inscription above the door recording that Napoleon I. was born there, with the date of his birth-is much more roomy and pleasantly habitable than its exterior would lead one to expect, and it is easy to see that it was one of a superior class in Ajaccio a century back.13 Nearly all the furniture passed into the possession of the Ramolini  born is among the best in the town it forms one side of a miserable little court leading out of the Rue Charles. It is very accurately given in the recent work of Las Cases. At present it is inhabited by M. Ramolino, one of the deputies for the department of Corsica. Among other curiosities which this residence contains is a little cannon that was the favourite plaything of Buonaparte's childhood. It weighs thirty French pounds.-Benson, p. 4. The house where Napoleon was born is to the imagination the first monument in Ajaccio. Before it, a little square, planted at the four corners with acacias, has received the name of Place Létizia the house, in height only a single storey above the ground floor, is little changed, and indicates the dwelling of a well-to-do family. It was pillaged in 1793 by peasants opposed to the Republic, after the flight of Madame Létizia and her children to her country-house of Melilli, while Napoleon was at Bastia. A fine portrait of Napoleon in imperial costume, by Gerard, is in the salon next to the bed-room, and it was in this salon that Napoleon was born. The little bronze cannon, a plaything of his infancy, disap@peared some years ago they tell me it was stolen, and that no trace has been found of it. The European house of Napoleon has passed into the hands of strangers to his race no furniture of the time exists there, no inscription is read above the door and by-and-by this house will not be distinguishable from any others in the city.@-@Valery, i, p. 160. From the street of St. Charles you emerge on a small rectangular place. An elm tree stands before an old-fashioned, yellowish gray, stuccoed, three-storeyed house, with a flat roof, and a gallery on it, with six windows to the front, and worn-out looking doors on the corner of this house you read the inscrip@tion, Place Letitia. No marble tablet tells the stranger who comes from Italy-where the houses of great men announce themselves by inscriptions-that he stands before the house of Buonaparte.@.@. The house, but little altered since his time, is, if not a palace, yet, at any rate, the dwelling of a family of rank and consequence. This is declared by its exterior and it may be called really a palace, in com@parison with the village-cabin in which Paoli was born. It is roomy, comfortable, cleanly. But all furniture has disappeared from the rooms, c. In this house, the cradle of a race of princes, the excited fancy seeks them in all the rooms, and sees them assembled round their mother ordinary children, like other men's schoolboys toiling at their Plutarch or Caesar, tutored by their grave father and their great-uncle Lucien and the three young sisters growing up careless and rather wild.@.@. There are Joseph, the eldest son Napoleon, the second born Lucien, Louis, Jerome there are Caroline, Elise, and Pauline all the children of a notary of moderate income, who is incessantly and vainly carrying on lawsuits with the Jesuits of Ajaccio to gain a contested estate which is necessary to his numerous family, for the future of his children fills him with anxiety. What will they be in the world ? and how shall they secure a comfortable subsistence ? And, behold ! these same children, one after the other, take to themselves the mightiest crowns of the earth@-tear them from the heads of the most unapproachable kings of Europe, wear them in the sight of all the world, and cause themselves to be embraced as brothers and brothers-in-law by emperors and kings and great nations fall at their feet, and deliver their land and people, blood and possessions, to the sons of the notary of Ajaccio ! Napoleon is European Emperor Joseph, King of Spain Louis, King of Holland Jerome, King of Westphalia Pauline and Elise, Princesses of Italy Caroline, Queen of Naples. So many crowned potentates were born and educated in this little house by a lady unknown to fame, the daughter of a citizen of a small and seldom mentioned country town, Letitia Ramolino, who, at the age of fourteen, married a man equally unknown. There is not a tale in the Thousand and One Nights would sound more fabulous than the history of the Buonaparte family !-1852, Gregorovius, pp. 351, 352. Uninhabited, and without a vestige of furniture, except some faded tapestry on the walls, the desolate  family , who inherited the property but there are still in the apartments mirrors, old framework of chairs like the walls, they appear to have been formerly covered with red or gilt tapestry , marble chimney-pieces, and large fireplaces, one or two highly ornamented chests, an ancient spinet-piano, the sedan-chair of Madame, her bedstead, and a few portraits all beside, as far as I saw, is bare unfurnished wall, and much of what I have named has been collected by the present emperor of the French from various places. The long gallery, the terrace and courtyard at the back of the house, the dining-room, every part of the building has its interest of association, and by walking through the apartments one is carried back to the days when the most wonderful man of modern times lived in it as a boy. To me, who years ago was in the habit of frequently visiting one branch of the Buonaparte family, the place is doubly interesting and when I remember the group of the late Prince Canino's numerous children, of whom in those days I saw so much, I seem to be more able to realise the circle of the first Napoleon's mother and her little ones. The elderly person who showed me the house had lived in the service of Princess Caroline Buonaparte-Murat, Queen of Naples, and was interested at hearing me speak of the houses at Musignano and l'Arricia, where I was wont to be so kindly received in former days. No Buonaparte now resides at Ajaccio, except the Princess Mariana, wife of Prince Louis Lucien, a younger brother of Charles Lucien, late Prince of Canino. There is plenty of food for reflection in a visit to the Casa Buonaparte  3 P.M.-I wander through this town, so like a village in its outskirts, and sit on a wall to write journal notes and cast up accounts. There is a statue of General Abbatucci close by, with posts, chain-connected, at a little distance all round it. I count fifty-three children swinging on these chains, and rather more swarming up some carts not far off. Certainly, the multitude of children is a striking feature in Ajaccio street scenery, and M. Ottavi tells me that numbers of the male population emigrate to the continent for a part of the year, so that the apparent comparative fewness of grown-up men or youths may be thus accounted for. After walking a mile or two I turned back when near the Palazzo Bacciocchi, a handsome building which stands in gardens towards the head of the gulf, and thence, repassing the town, regained my favourite   more than the deserted apart@ments at Longwood from which his spirit took its flight.-Forester, p. 216. The house has been renovated by the present emperor, the old family furniture has been sought out and brought back, and everything has been replaced as much as possible in the same position as when the rooms were occupied by the Buonapartes in former days.-Bennet, p. 255. On the subject of the antiquity of the Buonaparte family, M. Valery, citing as his authority the historian Limperani, states that a deed, by which in the year 947 certain seigneurs gave some property at Venaco to an Abbot of Montecristo, was witnessed by one of that family, and that the name is spelled Bonaparte. Filippini mentions one Gabriel Buonaparte, chanoine de St. Roch, as a theological lecturer at the end of the sixteenth century.@-@Valery, i., p. 158.  at the end of the Cours Grandval. Here, in spite of the cold and chilly afternoon, I find Mrs. J. S. making a good view of the scene, for she hath an able hand and eye but I, too idle to recommence work, employ myself in constructing an artificial and beautiful foreground of cactus-leaves and asphodel-stalks stuck endways into a tall pyramid of stones for that lady to copy, who, far from applauding, not only censures my performance as absolutely deficient in natural grace, but absolutely declines to make a faithful portrait of it in her sketch. Back to the hotel, after sitting some time with J. A. S., and here I find that M. Galloni d'Istria has very kindly sent me the promised budget of introductory letters for Olmeto, Sarténé, Bonifacio, and Porto Vecchio. All to-day, after the first hour or two of early sunshine, has been gloomy and cloudy. Helix tristis prevails.  II. Trial Trip in a Carriage-The Lower Penitencier at Castelluccio-St. Antonio, its Grand Scenery and Granite Boulders-Visits with Miss C.-The Préfecture-Moufflons-Leave Ajaccio for the South of the Island-Peter the Coachman-Miss C.'s Predictions-Campo dell' Oro-Valley of the Prunelli, and Beautiful Scenes-Cauro- Hotels in Corsican Villages-Mrs. Paoloni and her Inn its Accommodation, c.-The Col di San Giorgio- Maquis and Wild Flowers-Valley of the Taravo-@Descent to Grosseto-The Hotel des Amis Civil People and Good Fare-Ilex Trees-Quiet Civility of Corsicans-Beautiful Drive by the River, and Ascent to Bicchisano-Winding Mountain Road to Casalabriva, and Descent to Olmeto-The Hotel -Picturesqueness of the Town and its Situation-Tombs-Olive Slopes and Woody Scenery-Rain-Visit to a Sick Englishman-Leave Olmeto-Charming Scenery-Gulf of Valinco-Propriano and its Port-Valley of the Tavaria-Extremely fine Landscape-Long Ascent to Sarténé-Description of the Town- Hotel d'@Italie -Fatima of Sarténé-Views of Sarténé and the Valley-M. Vico, and his advice about farther Travelling Bavella, c.-Constant Work for the Painter-A Day by the Rocks of the Tavaria Exquisite Subjects for Pictures-Granite Rocks and Foliage by the River-Mourning in Corsica-Fatima's Opinions about Household Cleanliness. April 14.@-@Still thick cloud, not a mountain-top visible Corsican topography thriveth not. Nevertheless, at seven I go out to the cactus land and granite rocks, for one can make foreground studies but no, it begins to rain, and I have to return. Is there, as I said this time four years ago in Crete, no settled weather here in April ? So I sit down to write letters, especially one to M. Galloni d'Istria, thanking him for his assistance. Miss C. went yesterday to Bastelica, but as yet those high regions are too heavily laden with snow so that she came back instead of staying there. This lady is very obliging in answering my innumerable questions about numerous places in Corsica. At 9, when it rains less, I call at Dr. Ribton's to see the J. S.'s. You enter their salle a manger straight from the road, a system which-all the world being seated at breakfast-is destructive to the peace of the delicate-minded intruder. Says a Frenchman to me, and truly-speaking of the slow-walking people in the Piazza here- ils se promènent, ces Corses, comme des estropiés, ou comme des limaçons-these Corsicans walk like cripples or snails -Helix tristis to wit. And, certainly, on a wet day it would be hard to find so dull a place as Ajaccio. Suli, in Albania, is gay by comparison, Wady Halfa, in Nubia, bustling for those are places of by-gone times, whereas we are here in a city. An inevitable necessary, money, is next to be obtained through a letter of credit to M. Conti, Receveur-général and after that comes a visit to Miss C., who prophesies that I shall repent employing the people of whom I have hired the carriage. Meanwhile the carriage in question comes  a comfortable and strong trap, and I do not think fifteen francs a day will be dear if the driver and horses are good of the latter G.  are like rats -and small they certainly  P.M.-After hard rain all the morning it is now moderately fine, so I set off to try the vehicle, the driver of which I own has a face-if there be any truth in physiognomy-not at all indicative of good character. The trap does not go badly-which, as it may be one's daily home for a couple of months, it is pleasant to know-and the two poor little horses shuffle along quickly enough. We take the road to Castelluccio, the upper Penitencier, or convict establish@ment, but turn off at the lower building, whence a bridle road goes on to St. Antonio, a place Miss C. recommends me to visit as one of the most picturesque hereabouts. All around the Penitencier convicts are working, and fast changing these bare or maquis-covered hills into vineyards.14 Leaving the carriage here, I follow a winding track, which, leading to the rocks of St. Antonio, very soon leaves all traces of habitation and humanity, and might be exceedingly remote from cities instead of close to a capital. The walk along the hills is delightful, and the maquis, of which I have heard and read so much, full of charm-orchids, cyclamen, lavender, myrtle, cystus, absolutely a garden of shrubs and flowers. As the path approaches the mountain which stands immediately above the chapel of St. Antonio, the views of this wild waste place become wondrously grand. Such granite crags and boulders I think I have only seen at Philae and in the peninsula of Sinai and from the little platform, whence the whole mountain side is visible, with the western sea beyond, the strangely desolate prospect is greatly im@pressive. The chapel, a small and ancient building, can only be portrayed together with the rocks from one or two positions but the cliff or mountain is in itself a world of study, an endless storehouse of chasms, boulders, and peaks. Many new and great ideas of landscape may be gained by the painter who visits St. Antonio. See Plate 3. Returning to the trap, I drive to the town, and, at G.'s request, go to the fish-market, which is really well worth a visit, for the strange beauty of colour and the novelty of form of the fish there. Then a little more study at the grotto gardens and a visit to J. A. S. wind up the day. At 1 or 2 to-morrow I hope to start on my way to the south of the island, sleeping the first night at Cauro.  called máquis, clothe great parts of the country through which we passed. This term is generally applied to the wild vegetation so common in this island. It seems to be a corruption of the Italian word macchia. -Benson, p. 13. A large portion of the surface of Corsica-I may say, all that is not a primeval forest, or under cul@tivation-is covered with what they call maquis. I do not like to use the word brushwood or scrub, for such are very common words to apply to groves of underwood composed of myrtle, arbutus, cystus, rock-roses, and Mediterranean heath and yet of such is the interminable máquis composed.-Bennet, p. 251. The Corsican mountains are covered with the arbutus or strawberry tree, which gives a rich,  April 15, 5 A.M.-Heavy rain has fallen all night, and there is much more snow on the mountains, a sign probably of settled fine weather. For a short time I drew at the grotto gardens, from which beautiful spot the landscape never tires this morning the mountains are of the very darkest purple, and the freshness of the flowers and foliage after rain delicious. The drums and bugles of the soldiery make an odd accompaniment to scenery so tranquil and poetical. At Dr. R.'s, where I call to say good-bye to the J. S.'s, I find S. far from well, and leave them uneasily with a feeling that his inability to travel may detain them here longer than they anticipate. Arrangements for the afternoon's start, bill settling, c., occupy me till noon, and then follows a visit with Miss C. with whom the Helix tristis has nothing in common, for she is always merry and active to the Hotel de France, where the F. W. family are staying thence, with two more ladies, we adjourn to the house of the Princess Louis Lucien, or, as she is more generally called, the Princess Mariana Buonaparte. This lady, who has still the remains of great beauty, has much charm of manner, and is much liked by those who know her. Her rooms, pleasant in situation, were full of interesting portraits of the Buonaparte family. Her pleasure in speaking of Musignano, where she found I had formerly been used to study, was very evident, and my offer to send her a small view of the house was received with delight. Our party then go to the Prefecture, where Miss C. wants to show us some young moufflons or muffoli there are two of them, lambs or kids, call them as you will, well made, active little creatures, shy and wild, notwithstanding their early captivity. The moufflon, an animal partaking of the goat nature and of that of the sheep, inhabits only the highest and most savage districts of Corsica, and comes down to lower levels only when compelled to do so by winter's heavy snows. It was 2.30 before the trap came to the hotel, and careful packing commenced one of my saddle-bags or bisacchi and the portable bed are stowed behind, well secured against rain by two wild boar skins inside the carriage, my servant's package and my leather hand-bag for small objects Valery's volume, my only guide, included leave good room for self, besides a large folio in the old Coliseum-a case or sack so called by my servant from its extreme antiquity and venerable look, used for holding drawing materials or food in many expeditions-and G. on the outside seat with  in his history of plants, expatiates on the wonderful size of the Corsican trees, to which, he says, the pines of Latium were nothing at all.@@ He also says the trees were immensely thick here.  -the whole island seemed crowded and savage with woods.-Boswell, p. 47. What struck us most, independently of the general effect, was the extraordinary verdure and exuberance of the vegetation, which overspread the surface of the country far up the mountain sides, not only as contrasted with the sterile aspect of the coasts of the continent we had just left, but in being, in itself, different from anything which had before fallen under our observation in other countries, whether forest, underwood, or grassy slope.-Forester, p.  coachman, whose appearance is objectionable, and whose name is Peter, complete the arrangement. The kindly Miss C. has sent me a flask in place of the one lost, and calls from the window, cheerfully, You should have taken my man Jean ! all your luggage will fall off ! your horses will tumble ! every@thing will go wrong !@@ Absit omen ! and finally we start at 3.30. The way is along the Cours Napoleon, and out of the city towards the head of the gulf, leaving on the left the roads to Castelluccio, Alata, and Bastia, and passing the Villa Bacciocchi and its gardens, with some scattered villas and mulberry plantations-all these environs of Ajaccio are considered unhealthy in summer-time, on account of the marshy ground at the end of the gulf, parent of malaria fever. From this side of Ajaccio the view of the city is rather wanting in interest, though with a composition of boats it might be made more worthy perhaps from near the Lazzaretto, or Fort d'Aspretto it is best. The blackness of the crows on the shore, and that of the dress of the peasantry, alike wanting in liveliness, are the foreground accompaniments. Leaving the coast the road passes along the Campo di Loro or dell' Oro , 15 a flat plain with here and there those wide spreading marshes, so unfriendly to the health of the city. The rivers Gravona and Prunelli, which flow from the high mountains of Renoso and dell' Oro, by the valleys of Bocognano and Bastelica to the sea, are crossed by long bridges. In winter time, when the snow lies on the heights at the head of these valleys, many beautiful pictures might be made here among the broad green meadows just now, heavy storm clouds obscure the distance flocks of blackest sheep and a world of glittering silver-blossomed asphodels are the chief objects noteworthy. From the river Prunelli, where the road turns inland, and begins to rise, the scenery becomes more rugged and severe, reminding me of that of the valley of the Kalamà in Albania, hemmed in by hills of no great height, above which are glimpses of far purple and snow. At 5 the ascent becomes steeper and winding, and I avoid the high road to walk by short cuts, pleasant paths by heath-like slopes above a stream, beside which groups of large and as yet leafless chesnut trees are scattered. Every of  by Germanès, of the twenty-one shepherds of Bastelica who came down from the mountains and routed 800 Greeks and Genoese of the garrison of Ajaccio. Intercepted at length by infantry embarked on the little river of Campo dell' Oro, and surrounded by the marshes of Ricanto, they were all killed excepting one, a young man, who, stretched among his comrades, and with his face discoloured with blood, feigned death. Discovered by the Genoese hussars, who decapitated these noble victims, he was condemned by the Commissioner of Genoa to die, having first been led through the streets of Ajaccio carrying six heads, those of his rela@tives. He was afterwards quartered and exposed on the walls.-@Valery, i., p. 183. The valleys of the Gravona and the Prunelli, the waters of which discharge themselves into the Gulf of Ajaccio, are barely cultivated the plains situated at their mouths are unhealthy and marshy. It would be easy to drain and irrigate them, and thus increase their value tenfold. Besides, the neigh@bourhood of Ajaccio would excite not merely the emulation of ordinary labour, but also the spirit of speculation and calculations regarding the future, for sooner or later that city will become a rendezvous for those who seek health or pleasure.-Grandchamps, p. 30.  way up the hill shows changes of lovely green scenery, dells of crowded ilex, and a bosky richness of foliage, with now and then knots of tall trees on slanting turf, such as Stothard might have painted and then, looking back, the whole Gulf of Ajaccio is spread out to the western sun, and the capital of the island, the rocky hill of St. Antonio, and the long lines of the hills on the northern side of the gulf, fill up the picture.16 Higher up still, the view into the valley of the Prunelli becomes most grand, and from a point in the road near some wayside houses they call the place Barraconi , the mountains shutting in the valley are particularly imposing, and I am sorry that it is too late 6 P.M. to do more than jot down a  the exquisite effect of sunset which just now makes this scene so fine. As the sun goes down, the high snowy summit of Mont Renoso seems on fire, seen through a rose-coloured veil of mist above the nearer dark purple moun@tain below this, in deepest shadow, are great masses of rock, and at their foot lies the rich hollow valley and village of Suarella-a scene which I trust to return  village of Cauro is reached slowly, and by a stiff last pull, just as the sunset hues of gold and crimson-bright as those blazing dying day glories on the Nile-have turned to lilac and cold gray. The chief part of the village and its church stands back above the high road on the right you may see it glittering against the hill-side as you stand at the grotto of Napoleon at Ajaccio, or at the end of the Cours Grandval , that with which I have to do 16 At Cauro I had a fine view of Ajaccio and its environs.-Boswell, p. 355.  row of mean-looking houses by the wayside on the left, and I am curious to know what sort of accommodation Corsican mountain travel will really exhibit. Two of the dwellings are lodging-houses, or, as they are called in this island, hotels, a term applied here to the least pretentious of inns, such as we might call pothouses in an English village, and of these two the first applied to is full, and cannot take me in. Nor does there seem much better fortune at the second hotel, at the door of which two very civil landladies inform me, with many regrets, that their three rooms are taken up by a party of officials on a tour of inspection of boundaries, and that they have but their own apart@ment left, which they will give up. This, as a beginning of Corsican journeys, is not encouraging but there is no help for it, for it is too late to go on or to go back and, besides, having undertaken to see all Corsica, the matter must be gone through as it best may. So the roba is brought up to the third floor by a rickety ladder-stair, and in a little while my man sets up my bed, to the extreme amazement of the two hostesses, and makes things tolerably comfortable in one corner, while a mattrass in the farther one is to do for himself. The hostesses, with all the family, are to sleep in the kitchen, and Peter, the coachman, inside the trap. Meanwhile, Mdme. Angela Paoloni, the chief landlady, brings notice that M. the Inspector, and the other officials, are about to sit down to supper, and she intimates plainly that unless I and my servant do so too, no other opportunity may present itself so that the occasion is seized without delay. Miss C. had already told me that there would rarely be a chance of master and man eating separately, and that in her journeys she and her maid had always been co-partners at meals. In a small but clean-looking front room there was a large round table, which every one sat down to. The quality of the food served was quite unexpected in so rough-looking a roadside hostelry there was a tolerably good soup, and after it the inevitable boiled beef and pickles, then a stew, a timballo, roast lamb and salad, and a superb broccio. Capital wine, and plenty of it, was supplied. Hardly had I sat down to supper than I found I had committed an error, into which a little previous thought might have prevented my falling yet, with the very best intentions, a man may sometimes rush in where angels fear to tread. One of the party spoke French with a Parisian accent, the others were Corsicans. Vous êtes donc Français, Monsieur ? said I a remark which directly produced a sudden chill and pause, and after that came this reply- Monsieur, nous sommes tous Français, I had yet to learn that the words French and Corsican are not used by the discreet in this island you should indicate the first by Continental, and the second by Insulaire or du pays. It is as well, indeed, to recollect that there are old men still living who can remember the hopes of Corsican independence even up to  of the last century, and, consequently, all allusions by a stranger to differences of race are as well avoided, now that both people are under one government. The fact, too, that I spoke Italian with greater facility than French evidently puzzled my supper companions, and when I asked questions about the country, there was a kind of occult distrust observable travellers in Corsica-in out-of-the-way places at least-are rare might I not be a revolu@tionary agent ? I asked about the wines made in the island, but when ill-luck urged me to speak about Sardinian produce, dumbness or short replies ensued, and at once I found that Sardinia was a tabooed subject. The better I spoke Italian and the more I hesitated in French, the less respectable I became, and since at the commencement of travelling in a new country one has all to ask and learn, my numerous inquiries were received and answered with caution, and my evil genius having suddenly prompted me to ask something about the Straits of Bonifacio, there was again a full stop, and a sensation as if all Caprera-cum-Garibaldi were about to burst into the room. After this I confined myself strictly to observations on the nature of the supper and upon the climate of Ajaccio, and as the conversation afterwards was chiefly on local or municipal topics, I was glad to get away to rest for an early start to-morrow. Earnestly entreating my servant to snore as little as possible he can hardly occasion more disturbance than F. L., and I used to suffer in Greek khans from old Andrea , I congratulate myself on my forethought in bringing my little military bed, and think that if Corsican travel brings no greater hardship than this of its first day, it may be very bearable. April 16.-Mdme. Angela Paoloni, of the Hotel or Café Restaurant du Cours, at Cauro, did not certainly overcharge for her supper and lodging, and for coffee this morning-to wit, three francs per head. A desire to oblige, and a homely sort of friendly manner, are also what I have to note down respecting this the first Corsican country inn I have come to. By 6 A.M. Peter and the trap are ready, but as the road is an ascent as far as the Col San Giorgio, eight kilomètres onward, and, as the morning is lovely, I set off walking, after having searched in vain for some spot whence I could make a characteristic drawing of Cauro moreover, the landscape looking westward from above the village, though very beautiful, is of such magnitude and so full of detail as to be quite out of the pale of an hour or two's sketching. When the day is but just commenced, and the amount of what may be available for work is as yet unknown, it is not prudent to sit down to make a drawing, the time given to which may be proved later in the day to have been ill bestowed, in comparison with what should have been given to scenes which the painter is then reluctantly compelled to pass by in haste.  the way up to the Col San Giorgio the road throughout is broad and good, and the ascent not very steep a succession of beautiful mountain scenery delights the eye and from a spot whence the majestic Monte d'Oro forms the principal point above all the surrounding heights, it is impossible not to pause to get a drawing. Yet the fine distance hardly attracts the attention more than the near at hand details of the excessively rich foliage which is the characteristic clothing of all the hills. This maquis, or robe of green, covering every part of the landscape except the farthest snowy heights, is beyond description lovely, composed as it is of myrtle, heath, arbutus, broom, lentisk, and other shrubs, while, wherever there is any  innumerable crimson cyclamen flowers dot the ground, and the pic@turesque but less beautiful hellebore flourishes abundantly. Here groups of ilex or chesnut rise above the folds of exquisite verdure there, but rarely, you pass a plot of cultivation, or a vineyard, in which stands one of those branch-woven towers supported on four poles, and not unlike a Punch and Judy box, called Torri di Baroncello, such as one used to see in days of Calabrian sojourn.17 The freshness of the morning mountain air adds to the pleasure of this walk, and as it increases higher up, this compensates for the for  young pine-stems fixed on small elevations in the middle of the vineyards, with a sort of first floor and a roof of clay, have a picturesque effect. In them abides the Garde Champêtre, called, absurdly, Baroncello.-@Valery, i., p. 181. In the vineyards curious watchmen's boxes are frequently seen@.@.@. called Pergoliti. They consist of four young pine-stems, bearing a little straw-thatched hut, in which the watchman can lie down, high in the air.-Gregorovius, p. 400.  barer scenery of the col, just below the summit of which, marked by a single roadside house, is a plentiful fountain of excellent  the Col San Giorgio the road now turns eastward to descend into the great valley through which the river Taravo flows from the Col di Verde, joined on its way by streams from Zicavo, Sta. Maria, c., into the Gulf of Valinco. The wide hollow, or basin, presents quite a new prospect full of variety and beauty on the farther side of it you see the village of Bicchisano, and above that, the road will pass the highest hills that bound the valley, and again dip down to the sea at Propriano, between Olmeto and Sarténé. Meanwhile, the descent to the next village, Grosseto, where Peter the coachman says we must make a mid-day halt, and whence the road instead of following up the valley towards the mountains runs directly across it, continually increases in beauty the wild outspread of mountain form beyond, the profuse luxuriance of foliage, the refreshing greenness on all sides are really enchanting a continual succession of park scenes, groups of large chesnuts and venerable ilex trees, great shadowy snow-topped pine-grown heights far away, or huge granite masses close to the road, giving a constant interest to the scenery. 18 Often I could have liked to make a drawing, but thought it better not to delay at present, for the day's journey may be a long one, and the landscape is of a character to require sustained and attentive work. A landscape painter might well pass months in this valley of foliage, villages, mountain, and river. 9 A.M.-@Grosseto is reached, and Peter not a little surprises me by saying it is quite necessary to remain the night there, declaring that the village of Bicchisano is twenty-two kilomètres, or some fourteen miles, farther on, but on inquiry I find the distance to be but fourteen kilomètres, and that if I prefer doing so I may easily, when the horses have well rested, say by eleven o'clock, get on to Olmeto before evening. Grosseto is a village of scattered houses, and of the most quiet and rural appearance. Among five or six of its dwellings grouped together is one, neatly white, with Hotel des Amis inscribed on it, to which we have driven a little beyond the inn, and standing alone, is the church, sheltered by fine ilex-trees, and a picture in itself the ilex grows to an extreme size hereabouts , behind it are more evergreen groves and pastures, and the road which leads by Santa Maria Zicché to Zicavo. Some time must pass before breakfast, which G. has ordered, can be ready, and I would gladly employ the time in sketching but, as is usual when an artist is obliged to stop anywhere for some such commonplace cause as  an adequate idea of such Corsican mountain valleys as these. The Apennines would approximate to them in many places. But these Corsican mountains and valleys seemed to me far grander, wilder, and more picturesque, from their chesnut groves, their brown precipices, foaming torrents, and scattered blackish villages.@-@Gregorovius, p. 411.  or sleeping, the spot to which destiny nails him happens to be the least picturesque in the neighbourhood, and on the present occasion, without going back some distance, it is not easy to hit upon a subject for drawing, unless one made an elaborate study of an evergreen oak. The whole of this beautiful valley seems full of silent woody places, but all the scenery is of a grave, or as some would say a Poussinesque character, for the sombre foliaged cork and ilex give ever a sad and dark tone to landscape, and a hasty sketch can convey but little idea of its character. The village church is the only subject I can commence on, but, perversely enough, this can be done as I wish but from one single spot, to wit, in the road so I send for a chair and draw in public. But there is no fear of being disturbed a few men, all grave-looking, and dressed in shabby black and brown, stand round, but are quite well-behaved, and do not interrupt me, while groups of children look on silently at a greater distance. These Cor@sicans all appear to me intelligent I cannot recall having as yet seen a dull or stupid countenance in man, woman, or child nor is the intelligent expres@sion one of sharp cunning, but rather of thought and good sense, always, however, with a shade of gravity-very little gaiety have I yet seen in Corsica. During this morning's progress I do not think I saw more than eight or ten peasants, and of those, three were close to a mill hard by this village, yet this is the high road to the south of the island, and the Diligence stops to bait at the Hotel des Amis daily. At 9.30 I go into the little wayside inn, and through a dirty entrance and by a bad wooden staircase arrive at a middle room, which seems that used by the family, and on each side of this are very clean and tidy little chambers, vastly better than the outside of the house would lead one to expect. In one of these, where prints of the Emperor and Empress, and of some of the acts of Napoleon I., adorn the walls, and in every part of which there are evident marks of attention to neatness and cleanliness, a small table is covered with a clean cloth, and breakfast is soon brought. The hostess, a homely but pleasant-mannered widow, with two rather nice-looking daughters, and a son who acts as waiter, apologise in few words for having little variety of eatables. Tra@vellers, they say, come very unexpectedly, and for long intervals not at all so that, excepting at the times of arrival of the Diligences, they seldom have food in the house beyond such as they now set on the table, namely, eggs and salame or ham sausage , a plate of good trout, and an indifferent steak, but, above all, a famous broccio, for which, on G. asking if they had any, they had despatched a messenger half an hour ago to some sheepfolds nearer the hills. Assuredly, after much that one has heard of wild and savage Corsica, the interior accommodation of this little inn surprises me, and the particular civility and desire to please, unaccompanied by any servility, are as satisfac@tory as the Widow Lionardi's charges, three and a half francs for breakfast for  and my servant, a good bottle of wine, besides coffee, for myself being included in the sum. 11 A.M.-Off again, the road following the course of a clear stream, which makes its way to the Taravo, at times by the edge of steep banks and preci@pices, which I prefer coasting on foot, because there are no parapets, and Peter the coachman drives whiles more crookedly than is agreeable. The weather just now is delightful, and it is no small pleasure to walk below the beautiful shady trees-groups of immense aged evergreen oaks@-through this charming valley, where the first cuckoo of the year is heard, and all along which the scenery, of a grave hue, reminds me frequently of that in Epirus' valleys, although both this and that has each its own particular characteristic-Corsica, the broad carriage road which I see ahead for miles Greece or Albania, pastoral incident and the brightness of gay costume. Now the stream becomes more picturesque, dashing and foaming over granite boulders, like the Tavy or the Lyd farther on it runs through a deep hollow filled with trees-and such trees ! And then it falls into the Taravo, the main river of this fine valley, over which a bridge carries the high road. Hence the landscape generally is less like southern scenery than Welsh or Scotch, though now and then a bit of Greece seems before me, where, as here, the evergreen oak is so characteristic a tree. One or two of these spots completely recall the wood scenes of Eriligova, in Thrace. Would that here there were the village girls of those parts, with their gold and coin chains, their red caps, and their festoon'd flower head-dresses ! Meanwhile it is much to sit below huge brown-armed trees, full foliaged, shading a green slope of freshest turf and fern, less green, indeed, than coloured with cranesbill, cyclamen, and forget-me-not my man the while gathering huge bunches of watercresses from the streams about, aidful of supper supply at the next halt. Where that halt will be does not seem certain, for the sky is becoming cloudy and threatening, and Bicchisano, still far up on the opposite hill, seems to have no especial attraction, though doubtless in fine weather the views from its high position and those of the snow-powdered rocks close above it, would be worth a stay to study. In winding up the ascent above the Taravo Peter seems less and less to control his horses, which are apt to make for the side of the road with an abruptness that would be alarming were there such precipices as those nearer Grosseto but Peter, whom I suspect to have been frequently more or less asleep, apostrophises them with a lively fervour- What, then, did you think that wall a house and stable ? Do you want water, and run to that rock to find a fountain ? At 12.30 Bicchisano, the mountain village extolled by some as a good summer residence, is reached it appears to be a collection of hamlets, and there is said to be one of the best little inns here on the road between  Bonifacio, but the day has now become cold and windy, and as there would not be a chance of exploring the upper valley of the Taravo, I resolve to drive on to Olmeto, a decision clinched by a sharp storm of sleet and rain, which adds to my desire to exchange this high and shivering situation for a warm one, which Olmeto is considered to be. A long ascent leads from Bicchisano 19 to another village, Casalabriva, pass@ing obliquely up the south side of the valley of the Taravo, commanding a constantly widening view towards Capo di Porto Pollo, on the Gulf of Valinco, in front, and looking back to the high central range near Mont Renoso, now of a dark smalt-blue under the shadow of heavy clouds, with here and there strips of fierce light on the snow. The promontories or spurs which, descend@ing from the mid-island heights form the walls of these deep and long valleys, are evidently constant characteristics of Corsican scenery on its west side. Throughout this ascent the road winds in and out along the mountain side, now carried round deep recesses or gorges full of enormous ilex, anon passing great masses of granite, shaded by great trees growing from their crevices at several points clear fountains gush out by the wayside, but neither habitation nor human being was visible for the two hours employed in this part of the journey. The top or col of this long climb is reached at 2.40 P.M., and turning abruptly round the hill, the long lines of the green valley of Taravo disappear, and Peter halts at Casalabriva, a more compact village than Grosseto or Bicchisano, but, with the exception of some rocks and evergreen oaks at its entrance, not promising in appearance. Nor, even were the weather fine, should I care to draw the place, the houses of which have no pretensions to the picturesque, though there are some peculiarities in their structure which speak volumes as to their discomfort and uncleanliness.20 From this height 21 the road descends very rapidly into the next valley which adjoins that of the Boracci, a stream flowing into the Gulf of Valinco  inhabitants, there is a charming view from its new chapel and promenade. The prospect extends over a vast cultivated valley, with a glimpse of the sea and the Gulf of Taravo. 20 I regret not having visited Sollacarò, which is not far from Casalabriva.-E. L. Sollacaró, a village @of 600 inhabitants, is distinguished for its view and for the number and variety of its historical associations. It was at Sollacaró, during one of the sojourns of Paoli, that Boswell visited him, and he speaks Boswell, p. 354 of the house of the Colonna, in which he lived, as much decayed, and admitting both wind and rain. Here, too, it was that the widow came to General Paoli with her second son, I have lost my eldest in the defence of his country, and I have come twenty leagues to bring him who remains, that he may serve you. -Valery, i., p. 197. Sollacaró was a village always celebrated in the history of the island. It was the residence of the Signori d'Istria, and at some distance from the village stands their feudal castle, almost entirely destroyed. The ancient house of Vincitello d'Istria still exists on a high perpendicular rock in the village. The dungeons into which that tyrant threw his prisoners may still be seen.-Galletti, p. 155. But Sollacaró may have more interest for the public of the present day from its connection with a romance of Alexandre Dumas, and the play founded upon it, than from Paoli's having held court, or Boswell's visit to him there.@-Forester. 21 It is called the Col Celaccia separating the valley of the Taravo from that of the Boracci, and is 576 metres in height.  for a while hereabouts I fancy that I see the hills of Sardinia fringing@@ @@the southern sky, but am not sure whether the vision be land or cloud-and sending on Peter and the trap to whatever hotel there may be at Olmeto, I walk down the steep zig-zags leading to that little town, which stands perhaps half way down between the col and the shore. Thick wood, mostly evergreen, is the characteristic of this valley, which, unlike that of the Taravo, is narrow and closely shut in by heights, the tops of which are bare and their sides are covered with dense maquis, as well as groves of ilex and wild olive, and these, as the nook in which Olmeto is built expands lower down into the broad vale of the Boracci, are exchanged for rich plantations of cultivated olive, fruit trees, and corn. 3.30 P.M.-Olmeto, which from this approach you do not see till you are close upon it, is wholly unlike those villages of Corsica I have hitherto seen, and resembles many a hill town in Italy compact, and very picturesque, its houses looking towards the south and east, and hanging as it were in a steep hollow of hill which entirely shelters it from the west wind it is gifted with galleries and inequalities, and varieties of light, and shade, and colour, delightful to the painter's eye. The entrance is gloomy and dirty a narrow street runs through the village from end to end, and it is thronged with people, all in dark dresses, and all sitting or standing idle. Nearly at the end of the street is Peter with the trap, at the door of the hotel@-a most forlorn looking structure, entered by a flight of steps, eminently suggestive of possible bone fractures, being composed of very high and slippery stones without any parapet and at the top of this is a small ante@chamber of equally forbidding appearance, leading to a sitting-room similarly unprepossessing. Half one end of this is occupied by a large open fireplace, with chimney-corners, where a wood-fire is blazing, a not unnecessary set off against the cold and damp of the day, and in which a little boy who perpetu@ally coughs is crouched on a small stool. A very tiny bed-room, far cleaner than the appearance of other parts of the house would warrant one to expect, just allows of my camp-bed being set up in it, and my servant can be put up on a sofa in the salle à manger so, as dinner is promised by the landlady at sunset, I consider myself settled at Olmeto for the present. The hostess indeed, Mdme, Paolantonuccio, seems to be well satisfied with her hotel, and she tells me two gentlemen have been living for more than a month in it. Meanwhile I go out in search of a point to make a drawing of Olmeto, which is in truth a beautiful place, and for general position, details, and sur@rounding scenery, as picturesque in every sense as any Italian town I ever saw. When you have passed out of the west end of the single street-there is a very large fountain here, as at the other extremity of the town-you perceive high above you, among the great towering rocks, one of those solitary sepulchre-chapels so remarkable in this island and beyond it, a cross on  elevation above the high road, at once marks the precise spot from which a view of Olmeto must be made. Thither I went, and laboured at a large drawing, until showers of rain stopped my work. No more beautiful site than that of Olmeto can be pictured. Immediately below the town the ground dips steeply down, covered with corn or turf,  terraces of vineyard, varied with large groups of fine olive trees, resembling those thick clustering masses below Delphi in North Greece and these stretch away to gardens and other olive grounds down to the shore. Above the village a vast growth of vegetation climbs the heights, and besides huge rounded boulders of granite and dark bosky shades of olive and ilex, there are tangles of every shrub the island produces, the wild olive or oleaster being one of the most elegant. Across the valley all the lofty hills seem one solid mass  of maquis, vivid green where lit by gleams of sunlight, or streaked with dark purple and gray as clouds rest on the upper heights or flit across the sky. And in the midst of this setting of every shade of green the little town of Olmeto stands out full of picturesque accidents of form and light and shade, its lower houses growing as it were out of granite crags, and surrounded by fruit trees. Nor does there lack foreground to this picture in the shape of rocky masses, creeper-and-lichen-grown, and imbedded in foliage of innumer@able kinds. Certainly, if Corsica turns out thus increasingly beautiful from day to day, I shall have more than enough to do but may weather be more propitious ! See Plate 4. Every part of the heights close to the town abounds with little picture subjects-here a chapel, there a tomb exactly like Absalom's Pillar in the Valley of Jehoshaphat the dress of the peasantry alone is uninteresting in all this catalogue of  sunset, however, I am glad to leave it all, as damp and chill increases, and to come to the hotel, where, having ejected four cats, a dog, and the coughing boy, the rest of the evening is passed. The fare, as usual in these untoward-looking hostelries, is far better than could be expected, though woe to the traveller who cannot eat omelettes ! Mdme. Paolantonuccio, however, piques herself on abstruse and scientific cookery-eggs dressed with tomatoes, and other surprises, besides boiled and roast lamb, and the unfailing and excellent broccio, and wine of capital quality, the neighbourhood of Sarténé producing some of the best in Corsica. A young man brings in the dinner, the hostess being employed in serving the two English gentlemen, who it seems are still in the village, though at another house. One of these tw@o he describes as hopelessly ill, and I think I had better send or call to-morrow to know if any help can be given to a countryman in so out-of-the-way a place. April 17, 5.30 A.M.-This inn, wretched enough as to its exterior and its entrance, is, after all, not intolerable, and again I note in the people of the house the obliging manner which thus far into Corsica I have invariably met with. The view from Olmeto is one marked by extremely delicate beauty. The olives on the slopes below the town more than ever remind me of those at Delphi at this hour, when the landscape is in deep shadow-for, alas ! clouds are rapidly rising on all sides, and I fear rain. Most observable is the thickness and redundance of the vegetation here, the mingling of gray granite and green maquis. But what could make M. Valery Vol. i., page 200 write that Olmeto, a village clustered among rock and woods half way up a mountain, reminded him of Nice, a place of boulevards and promenades at the edge of the sea ? The weather holds up sufficiently to allow of my working a good bit on  detail of the drawing I commenced yesterday, but cloud and gloom increase every minute. While thus occupied, a good many of the men of Olmeto, going out toward their vineyards, pass where I sit, and some few stand still to see me draw. All are civil very dusky looking and slow, clad in the universal black or dark brown, and blackly bearded. But, on the whole, the people here appear a rougher set than those I have seen, and some of the children shout out, O Anglais ! As yet, however, since I landed in Corsica, I have not met with a single  7.30 there is but just time to return to the hotel before a violent down-pouring commences, and they say it will probably not cease all day. A@@ conviction of dampness impresses me at this place and to-day, as well as yesterday, I observe very many people coughing. Fires, they tell me, are generally in use, and I cannot help thinking that the high hill which quite screens the town from the west, depriving it of afternoon sun, must be pre@judicial to dwellers in Olmeto, though, on the other hand, it saves them from the mistral. After breakfast there is nothing better to do than to draw portions of the town out of a side window, and I send a card to the sick Englishman to learn if he would like to see me, in case I can in any way help him. To this a messenger brings word that he will gladly do so at noon, on which I am taken to a small house not far off, and by a very dirty staircase reach a floor, where in a room, far more comfortable within than its exterior predicted, was the sick man, whom, to my extreme surprise, I found to be Mr. B., the eldest son of Lord E. B. Already in ill health, he had come to this island in search of a warm winter climate but by a fall from his horse had received a serious internal injury from which it is next to impossible that he can recover. Though suffering greatly at times it did not appear to me that he was in want of anything, and he had with him one who seems an attentive and good domestic or companion. When I left him I promised to return and dine with him at seven, if the weather did not hold up, which, they say, it is not likely to do, though I am not without hopes of it. Meanwhile I come back to the hotel and find sleep the best occupation. At 2 G. wakes me, saying  weather is curing itself@ -and certainly the rain has not only ceased, but the clouds are breaking, and a decision must be come to at once, since 3 or 3.30 is the very latest at which I may start from here in time to get to Sarténé, my next halt. I write, therefore, to Mr. B., stating that I am going to leave Olmeto, and then ordering Peter to get the trap ready, leave him and G. to follow, and set off on foot. Madame Paolantonuccio recommends me to go at Sarténé to the Hotel d'Italie, where her son is cook. All the way down to the sea-level the road from Olmeto zig-zags and curves through beautiful scenery, of similar character as to luxuriant foliage  more to broad green slopes and corn@fields dotted with olives, and spreading into wide distances of Claude Lorraine landscape, either looking west or towards the hills at Fozzano,22 in the valley of the Boracci. At every step there are studies for pictures, if only in the hedges, which are in some places literally blue with a beautiful climbing vetch. The bridge over the Boracci, which runs into the sea here through some low marshy ground, green and pleasant to see, but exceedingly unwholesome as to air, is passed at 4 P.M. At the head of the Gulf of Valinco,23 which, spite of the bright sun now once more shining, has a sad and deserted look, the road follows the shore, and soon reaches Propriano, which stands on the sea, and appeared to me a dull and uninteresting place, containing some very tall and particularly ugly houses once a week the steamer which goes from Ajaccio to Bonifacio touches here, but it seems a place of small traffic. Striking inland, the road, after an uninteresting ascent, soon dips into the valley of the Tavaria, and here all at once the scenery becomes most beautiful in character, but unlike that I have passed through hitherto. Some of the scenes on the broad part of the river, which runs below exquisitely wooded hills, might be in Scotland or in Wales, and there are masses of granite and tufts of foliage perfect as foreground studies. One of the hills to  the very hotbed of vendetta, is divided into two parts, composed of the most distinguished families, whose wealth and position enable them to continue this curse. These vendette or vengeance , dating back forty or fifty years, have ruined this village, once one of the richest in Corsica.@.@. The aspect of this place at war with itself was shocking every peasant walked about armed the houses were fortified and barricaded, and the windows blocked up with bricks. A fourth of the whole population is in vendetta between the families of the upper and lower village di sotto e di sopra such furious hostility exists that their members remain shut up in their dwellings, while even their children cannot go to school, for they would not be spared. More@over, these little rustic urchins know very well how to fire off their own pistols, and sometimes they have even their own private vendette. On April 10, 1834, for instance, Louis Coli, a boy of thirteen years, shot another boy of Ajaccio in the head, taking him, while standing at a window, for one of his comrades with whom he had quarrelled.-@Valery, i., p. 202. Arbellara and Fozzano form part of the canton of Olmeto. Both have acquired a bad celebrity from the sanguinary and inveterate enmities which have long existed between their wealthiest and most dis@tinguished families. At present, in appearance at least, they enjoy perfect peace but, oh, may such calm endure, and not be but the precursor of fresh tempests ! In these villages are houses which resemble fortresses, and which are surrounded by walls serving as ramparts.-Galletti, p. 157. Fozzano is said to be the scene of M. Merimée's beautiful romance of Colomba. -E. L. 23 The Gulf of Valinco, into which the Taravo and the Rizzanesi flow, the two most important rivers of the west of Corsica. Like the Gravona and the Prunelli, they descend from the highest central mountains their slopes are wooded and cultivated. The port of Propriano, the outlet for the produce of these valleys, is not safe and the best anchorage in the Gulf of Valinco is at Porto Pollo.@-@Grand@champs, p. 28. The basins of the Taravo and the Rizzanesi are separated from Bonifacio by several small uncul@tivated and wild valleys, which labour would fertilise, but which are now only frequented by flocks of sheep.-Grandchamps, p. 29. Porto Propriano, open to S.W. winds, is not safe. Porto Polio will be the most frequented of the ports on the western side after Île Rousse. The Port of Bonifacio, frequented by ships of small tonnage only, which carry on what trade exists between Corsica and Sardinia, is difficult to enter, and narrowed constantly more and more by detritus of ravines.@-@Grandchamps, p. 92. Not far from the bridge over the Boracci, at the end of the Gulf of Valinco, stands Propriano, remarkable for its pretty houses, its commerce, and the number of its warehouses.-Galletti, p. 156.  the valley, with craggy outline and hanging woods, forms infinite fine pictures, and I have seen nothing in Corsica hitherto so classic and poetical. Beyond these succeed levels of cystus and asphodel, and then, after passing the opening of the valley of Tallano, the River Tavaria, which flows down it, is left, and the road begins the long ascent to Sarténé, which stands at a great height, and has been visible since I came over the hill close to Propriano. Sarténé, 24 one of the four Sous-préfectures of Corsica, and a large, important place, is truly grand as approached from this side, though its architecture seems of questionable picturesqueness nevertheless, as a whole, it has an imposing look, and resembles Bova, in South Calabria, more than any place I can compare it to, though wanting in the castle-like groups of buildings which so adorn that Italian town. At Sartene, the massive square houses are more detached and in that respect it has a certain look of Arghyrò-Kastro, in Albania. As the road winds up the very long ascent to the town, the views of the great valley below, so varied with graceful lines and undulations of cultivated ground, and so rich in wood, and of the splendid snowy heights of the long range of mountains opposite, terminating in the lofty regions of the great Monte Incudine, are exceedingly noble, and perhaps give me greater pleasure than all I have hitherto seen of the landscape in this island. The town is approached by a fine bridge over a torrent, and from this point the whole valley, down to the Gulf of Valinco, is seen-one of the wildest and loveliest of prospects, and such as I had not at all anticipated to find in Corsica. See Plate 5. Sarténé seems to be a populous place, with many large houses but it was past sunset when I reached it, and I went at once to the Hotel d'Italie. For the Ajaccio diligence, which leaves Sarténé at 6.30 P.M., had come thundering down the hill an hour before we arrived at the top of it, and, I suppose, to avoid any possibility of my being smuggled into any opposition locanda, the son of Madame Paolantonuccio, had come down to meet me,  town of 2,700 inhabitants, in a fertile territory, considered the granary of Corsica, had been for a long time one of the most peaceable parts of the island. At present, however, it only breathes war and vengeance. Hostilities recommenced on September 16, 1830, and says M. Valery, after describing a succession of battles in 1833 and 1834, productive of bloodshed, death, and increased hatred it is difficult to conceive the existence of such a state of society with French government they have regulated half Europe, but are powerless against the nature, manners, and passions of the Corsicans.@-@Valery, i., p. 223. Sarténé suffered terribly from the Saracens. After repeated incursions, the Moors surprised the town in the year 1583, and in one day carried off 400 persons into slavery, probably a third of the population. -Gregorovius, p. 416. After the French revolution of 1830, Sarténé was for years the scene of a horrible civil war. It had been split ever since the year 1815 into two parties, the adherents of the family Rocca Serra, and those of the family of Ortoli. The former are the wealthy, inhabiting the Santa Anna quarter the latter the poor, inhabiting the Borgo. Both factions entrenched themselves in their quarters, fastened their houses, shut their windows, made sallies at intervals, and shot and stabbed one another with extreme rage. The Rocca Serras were the white or Bourbonists, the Ortoli the red or liberals the former had denied their opponents entry into their quarters, but the Ortoli, being determined to force it, marched one day  and ensured my going to the right place by piloting me there himself. Did I not, when I met that public conveyance, feel glad that I had not chosen to travel in it, knowing that the whole of the beautiful scenery from here to Grosseto would have been passed in the dark, seeing that the diligence only arrives at Cauro to-morrow morning at 7 A.M. ! At the hotel-as usual, occupying only one floor of a house, in this instance a good sized one-I found several decent apartments untenanted, and was accompanied to the one I chose for myself by the landlady, a person of most astonishing fatness her face was nice and pleasant, but in figure she was like nothing so much as Falstaff disguised as the Fat Woman of Brentford. This bulky hostess looked on me with great favour, on finding that I was well acquainted with her native place, Como, and went into raptures when I talked about Varese and other Lombard localities. Never@theless, at one moment I thought our acquaintance was to be of no long duration for, having discovered me in the act of putting up my camp-bed-which at first, I believe, she thought was a photographic machine, or some@thing connected with art-she suddenly became aware of its nature, and, calling Giovanni and others of her household, shouted out, Ecco un signore chi sdegna i letti di Corsica !-here is one who despises the Corsican beds ! -and I did not know what might have followed this discovery, till my servant assured her that this was my constant habit, and by no means referred to her particular hotel, by which announcement the amiable Fatima allowed herself to be pacified. Later, the supper she provided was excellent, and she could not be satisfied without bringing far more dishes than were required, with fruits and smaller delicacies, such as olives, pickles, butter, c., and the best of Tallano wine. April 18.-Coffee was very obligingly got ready some time before sunrise, and the early part of the morning went in making a drawing below the town,  fired from their houses, killing three men and wounding others, and this was the signal for a bloody battle. On the following day many hundred mountaineers came with their guns, and besieged Santa Anna. The Government sent a military force but, although this to all appearance produced tranquillity, the two parties still kept assailing one another, and killed several men of their adversaries. The variance still continues, although the Rocca Serra and Ortoli have met amicably at the festival of Louis Napoleon's election to the Presidency for the first time after an enmity of thirty-three years, and allowed their children to dance together. @These ineradicable family feuds present the same spectacle in Corsica as the Italian cities, Florence, Bologna, Verona, Padua, and Milan, offered to the world in olden times but these family feuds are far more striking and terrible in Corsica, because they are carried on in such small places, in villages often possessing scarcely a thousand inhabitants, who are, moreover, indissolubly bound to one another by the bonds of blood and the rights of hospitality. At Sarténé politics produced civil war elsewhere, this is produced by some personal injury, or by any the most trifling circumstance. For a dead goat there once died sixteen men, and a whole canton was up in arms. A young man throws a bit of bread to his dog, the dog of another man snaps it up, thence arises a war between two parishes, and the consequence is murder and death on both sides.-Gregorovius, p. 417. The town of Sarténé is situated in the basin of the Rizzanese its annals go no further back than  way down the hill from a spot whence a wonderfully fine picture might be made , until the sun, shining above the houses, prevented farther work. These views of Sartene are most majestic and poetical and, more@over, while the buildings of the town are in shadow, the commonplace nature of their details is hidden. The great isolated blocks of granite which seem thrown about on all sides on purpose to serve as foreground, the excess of wild vegetation, the silence of the deep valley or plain, and the clear lines of snow crowning all, combine to make a thousand bewitching subjects. After 7 or 8, a walk on the other side of the city, and a long scramble among thick woods, where the ground is literally red with cyclamen, show me more of the Sarténé scenery from the eastern side of the town you look into the quietest of profound valleys, above which the lofty line of what I suppose to be the Incudine mountain range shines crystal clear and bright against a cloudless sky. I shall certainly remain here to-morrow, at least, and try to get as many records as I can of the landscape, which is of a class rarely met with in such perfection, so fertile and so varied, so full of giant rocks, of abundant foliage, and sublime mountain forms. But it is necessary to give M. Galloni d'Istria's letters to the Sous-préfet and to M. Vico, Sous-Inspecteur of Forests, from whom I am to gain infor@mation about the woods of Bavella, which are to be visited from the east side of the island so I return to the town. The streets of Sarténé are not gifted with any charm of liveliness the lofty square houses are built of blocks of rough granite, dark gray in colour, and many of them are so massive as to look more like prisons than private dwellings. Signor Vico, a most obliging person, gives me every information about the roads. From Solenzaro, he says, my light carriage can cross the heights of Bavella, at which place I am to have an introduction to the government agent, who resides in the forest, and thence I may return by Zonza, Levie, and Tallano, to Sartene. The whole distance across the mountains he repre@sents as about seventy or seventy-five kilomètres-forty-five miles, more or less-and provided no new fall of snow occurs, I shall find no difficulty in crossing. He confirms M. Galloni's opinion, that the Bavella forest scenery is among the finest in the island. At 10 I am back at Fatima's hotel for breakfast. That person evidently the sixteenth century. In 1583 it was taken by assault by Hassan, King of Algiers. About 1732 the town suffered much from the incursions of pirates, and the eleven villages depending on it were reduced to one.-Grandcha@@mps, p. 28. In the district of Sarténé are also some remains of menhirs and dolmens, those ancient mythical stones which are found in the islands of the Mediterranean and in Celtic countries. They consist of columnar stones erected in a circle, and are here called stazzone.-Gregorovius, p. 427. In Sarténé writes the Abbé Galletti, proudly , are found shops of every kind, cafés, and hotels after the fashion of the Continent@-Galletti, p. 158. The poetical Gregorovius, p 414, says the streets of Sarténé are peopled with demons, and calls it a large paêse in melancholy isolation among melancholy mountains.  with the towns and villages of her early days continues to give me great interest in her eyes. She is most profuse of good things her wine of the best quality her table cleanly and carefully set out and her attentions unfailing. But she laments the little traffic of Sarténé, and says, what must be true enough, that many articles of perishable nature cannot be kept, because so few passengers come to eat them. Her principal custom seems derived from pensionati, civilians, government officials, c. the officers of the garrison-for Sarténé has a small garrison-go to the opposition hotel , and she makes such efforts to please all that she assuredly merits success. At II I start down the hill for a walk of nine kilomètres about six miles to get recollections of the river scenery of the Tavaria, and of the great granite boulder foregrounds. The cuckoo sings cheerily, and the cystus flowers scent the air. Up to the seventh kilomètre there is comparatively little to interest but thenceforward, when you have passed a wayside fountain where aged and broken ilex trees and a carpet of fern make a picture, all is charming. Little, however, can be represented of this extremely beautiful scenery by the pencil alone the colouring of the river and that of the densely-foliaged cork and ilex groves, and of the granite fragment-strewn hills-which have a sort of velvety and speckled texture or quality-are characteristics only to be given by hard study with the brush. Returning, drew some of the great rock foregrounds. How difficult it is to give ever so slight an impression, on a small scale, of objects as full of detail as of grandeur-of those huge wrinkled Philae-like masses of granite of that mingling of tall evergreen oak and rock that smooth bright green turf, dotted with flocks of black sheep ! Worked till I was weary, and yet again, upon a view of Sartene, on my way up. The specky grayness of the hill on which the town stands is strongly contrasted with those parts that are covered with green-brown maquis. The long ascent to Sarténé-I cannot call it tedious, so varied is the scenery, so delightful at this hour the song of innumerable blackbirds, so opportune the many little rock fountains for refreshment-was accomplished by 7.15 P.M. The last look before you turn towards the street leading into the town it is difficult to cut short-to pass the bridge, without lingering to gaze down the long, long valley westward to the sea. All through the day I have observed the civility of the passers-by, mostly bearded men in black or brown, with brown cloth caps, riding on spirited little horses, the few women with them always riding astride, and always dressed in black not a vestige of costume exists. Every one saluted me as I sat drawing. One called out, We are glad you are making our Corsica known by drawing it ! Another said, Perhaps when you foreigners know us better, you will cease to think us such savages as we are said to  reception and supper were as cheery and good as heretofore. To-morrow I shall devote the whole day to the Tavaria scenery, and all things are to be in order to start at sunrise if possible. April 19.-At 5.30 A.M. I walk down the hill, and drawing more or less by the way, gradually reach my farthest point, the bridge over the Tavaria, a distance of some eleven kilomètres, or seven miles. Such a walk here, at early morning, is unboundedly full of pleasant items the whistle and warble of countless blackbirds, and the frequent cuckoo's note flowers everywhere, especially the red cyclamen, blue vetch, yellow broom, tall white heath, pink cranesbill, and tiny blue veronica the great rocks-at this hour in deep shadow-overgrown with ivy, moss, and a beautiful red lichen the slopes of fern and cystus all these are on each side, and below there is ever the grand valley scene. I must linger yet another day at Sartene indeed, a week would be a short stay in these parts for an artist who really wished to study this fine order of Corsican landscape. About the seventh kilomètre the road is lively by groups of peasants going up to the town on the fête day-lively, that is by movement, not by colour, for all are gloomily black, caps, beards, and dresses-trotting on little ponies, many of which carry two riders. While I sit drawing above the Tavaria bridge, a shepherd leaves his large flock of black sheep and stands by me. At length he says, Why are you drawing our mountains ? Per fantasia e piacere, I reply, for fun, and because it gives me pleasure to draw such beautiful places. Puole, quoth he, ma cosa siggriffica ? - That may be, but what is the meaning of it ? - da qualche parte d'Italia venite certo - You come, it is plain, from some part of Italy do you go about mapping all our country ? - facendo tutta la Corsica nostra dentr' una carta geografica ? But I, who cannot work and talk at the same time, tell him so, on which he says, with an air of wisdom, Si capisce-I understand, -and goes away apparently in the belief that I am constructing a political survey of the island. At II it is time for breakfast, which G. has set, with cloaks and a folio for chair and table, below a large olive tree some way off the road and Fatima the plentiful has outdone herself by a selection of good things, cold lamb, eggs, tunny, and Sta. Lucia di Tallano wine. I have seen few spots more full of poetical beauty than this, which, though close to the high road, would be completely a solitude but for hosts of birds, of which the woods are full, especially blackbirds, titmice, and bee-eaters, with many jays and ravens, whose home is in the crags high up on Monte Lungo. But after mid-day, all these woodland and mountain dwellers cease to sing or cry, and the bright dead silence of southern noon succeeds to the lively freshness of morning. Once only a living stream of some eighty jet black goats suddenly passes along the green sward by the little brook, sneezing and snuffling  fashion, and disappearing behind the great crags of granite, leaving silence as they had found it little greenish lizards playing about the flat stones being now the only sign of life all around- For now the noonday quiet holds the hill The lizard, with his shadow on the stone, Rests like a  whole scene recalls to me many a morning in Greece, and repeats the days that are no more, as I had not supposed they could be brought back. Let a landscape painter, having set out from Sarténé, turn off the high road to his left, where, a little beyond the ninth kilo@mètre from the town, he comes upon some fine detached rocks, forming a screen to @@an opening that leads to a vista of thick wood and noble mountain, and let him @@@@follow the winding goat tracks to the foot@@ of the hill there he will find on every side@@ hundreds of foreground studies of incal@culable value. The granite fragments are usually of a pale dove or slate colour, @@mottled with thousands of vegetable tints, green, white, yellow, orange, and black lichen, tufts of a red kind of stonecrop, moss, and ivy and of such masses of rock with a portion of the background to make a picture, he will find enough work for months of artist-life. One more pause before setting out townward, to draw by the river where the wood overhangs the cliffs and masses of granite, and where the clear water reflects the delicate hues of the pallid hill above it. Then as the sun sinks lower for it is 4.30 P.M. , while the light and shadow on the rocks in the valley and on the exquisite mountain is constantly changing, and silvering the high crags and gilding the tufted trees, I go reluctantly. Since I made drawings  Athos, in 1856, I have seen no heights so poetically wild, so good in form, and so covered with thick wood and, altogether, as a wild mountain scene this has few rivals. A shepherd tells me they call the chief hill here Monte Lungo. See Plate 6. The ancient Coliseum sack is packed, and I set off on my return. Here, at the seventh kilomètre, are twenty Corsicans on just ten horses, no more-a by no means ordinary spectacle-riding back from Sarténé. On the way up the long ascent I am met by the landlord of the Hotel de l'Univers at Sarténé he says he had heard that my worship was coming, by a message from the Secretary-general, and had not the son of that woman at Olmeto been so cunning as to seize your honour first, by artfully coming down the hill, you would have come to my hotel, which is wholly the best at Sarténé, and most fit for you to have gone to to which I can only reply by regrets, and by assuring my host of the Universe that Fatima's inn is as comfortable as need be. Many a spot on the way up to the town has a charm at this hour which it does not possess earlier in the day, for now the sun  set, the contrast of the almost black ilex against the pallor of the fading blue mountains is lovely and wondrous so, by reason of lingering to make notes and memoranda, I do not reach Sarténé till  20, 5.30 A.M.-The first part of the day is passed in completing drawings of the town and valley already commenced, and in making other small sketches characteristic of a place I may perhaps never revisit, at least with leisure for drawing. One or two of these sketches are of the mortuary chapels or sepulchral monuments, which are very numerous and conspicuous about  of Sarténé, and are often exceedingly picturesque, some high up peeping from thick woods of wild olive and cork, others in positions close to the road. Then I pay a visit to M. Peretti, one of the Sous-preféts of the depart@ment, who was away when I came here first, a very agreeable and kindly person. To his inquiries as to what I thought of and how I liked Corsica I made a reply which savoured certainly more of the artist than the politician, namely, that I regretted extremely to find no Corsican costume in the island. Vous voulez donc, Monsieur, recommencer avec la nationalité Corse ? Do you wish to re-establish Corsican nationality ? he asked, laughing. Of the present condition of the island he speaks as having absolutely no affinity with that in existence at the commencement of this century, or rather up to the year 1852, when the general disarmament of the population took place- robbery, banditism, vendetta, all beyond that period belongs to the past, and are exchanged in the present day for security and tranquillity. After visit to M. Vico, it becomes requisite to practise letter-writing and resignation indoors, for, cloudy all the morning, it now rains in torrents the weather, however, has been very propitious for drawing in Sarténé, and even this downfall may presage a clear day for to-morrow. 4.30 P.M.-The mists roll up from the higher mountains, and disclosing bright paths of coming sunset, enable me to go out once more to make some last sketches. All about the Cappuccini-a small convent just outside the town@-there are beautiful bits of landscape but they are not easily attainable, because there is an inconvenient custom here of building up high stone walls, enclosing nothing at all probably they mark divisions of property at the same time they interfere much with the researches of painters not gifted with kid-like activity. Nevertheless there is hardly a path round Sarténé that does not lead to some surpassingly fine bit of landscape, and excepting Civitella and Olevano, I have known no such place for study combining so many features of grandeur and beauty. Perhaps in the finest parts of Calabria there is more analogy to the class of scenery here, but in that part of Italy there is a greater amount of culture and less variety of unbroken wildness. As the sun goes down, a band of golden light beams along the Gulf of Valinco, and a last shower breaks over the misty gray olive woods and the huge lichen-grown rocks so at 6.30 I return to the Hotel d'Italie. I ask my hostess about the mourning which every one seems to wear here. She says, for a parent or a child you mourn for life, as also for brothers, sisters, husbands, and wives, unless you marry or re-marry after their death, on which event you cease to mourn, and a new life is supposed to commence. Allora, il matrimonio taglia il duol-then marriage cuts the grief. For an uncle or aunt you mourn ten years, and for a cousin seven, so that it is not wonder@ful that the world is so mournful as to dress in these parts. On the  my opinion on various matters regarding Corsican inns, and on my gently suggesting that somewhat more cleanliness and attention in the matter of floors, stairs, c. for, indeed, the state of these contrasts strangely with that of the very clean linen, table service, c. , would be very likely to have beneficial effect on the recommendation of English visitors, Fatima says excitedly Come posso far tutto ? How can I do all things ? In Corsica there are no servants they consider service a dishonour, and will starve sooner than work. Yet she promises to do something for the unwashed floors. Can I, she says, prevent those who come to my hotel, and through whom chiefly I am able to keep it up, from bringing their dogs, and throwing all the bones and broken fragments of meat on the ground for them ? Cosa volete che faccio ? Finally she hits on an ingenious compro@mise So béne che vi dev' essere la pulizia, ma qui in Sarténé non e possibile-I know well that it is proper that things should be clean, but here cleanliness is impossible-Dunque, voglio colorire con color' oscuro tutt' il fondo delle camere cosi appunto non si scoprirà le sporcherie ! -Therefore I will colour with a dark tint the floors of all the rooms, and so nobody will be able to see the dirt ! Peter the coachman, who has already asked for two supplies of money, comes for more, and it begins to be suspected that the horses do not altogether benefit by this so much as they should in the shape of orzo or barley.  III. Leave Sarténé-Landscape at Early Morning-Valley of the Ortola-Verdure of Corsica-Wild Flowers -Lion Rock at Roccaspina-Coast Road-Lonely Village of Monaccia-Uncultivated and Wild Country-Low and Unhealthy Tract-Creeks of Figari and Ventilegne-First Views of Bonifacio -Descent to its Picturesque Harbour-Appearance of the Fortress and Town-Good Carriage Road-Fortifications-Narrow Streets-Widow Carreghi's Hotel-Walk through Bonifacio-Its most singular Position and extreme Picturesqueness-Obliging People of the Hotel-Dr. Monte@pagano, the Maire-View of Bonifacio from the Cliffs opposite, and great Beauty of its Aspect-The Conscripts' Farewell Fête-Staircases at Bonifacio-Walk with Dr. Montepagano, and Visit to the Convent of La Santa Trinità-Leave Bonifacio-Road-Groves of Olives- Maquis -Wild Flowers-Reach Porto Vecchio-Its Decayed Appearance-Madame Gianelli's Hotel-M. Quenza, the Maire-Wild and Beautiful Views of Porto Vecchio, its Gulf and Hills-Excellent Roads in Corsica Security Good Breeding of People-Climate of Porto Vecchio-Visit to the F@orest of Spedale-Cork Woods-M. Quenza a good Companion-Blackbirds-Scenery of the Mountains of Spedale-Its Pine Forests, and extensive Views-Return to Porto Vecchio-Ent@emology in its Neighbourhood-Its Reputed Unhealthiness in Summer-Leave Porto Vecchio-The Bastia Diligence-Plains of Fiumorbo, their broad and beautiful Character-The River Vabolesco, and the Mountains beyond-Migliacciara, its Hotel and Surrounding Scenery-Road through Cork Woods and Thick Vegetation Tracks of Maquis @-Gulfs of Pinarello and Tower of Fautea-Road Along the Shore-Flowers-Birds-Porto Favone,. its quiet Beauty-Peter the Coachman becomes Disagreeable-Solenzaro-Hotel of the Widow Orsola-Information about the Forest of Bavella and the Road to Aleria-M. Mathieu-Beautiful River Scene and Chapel. April 21, 6 A.M.-After drawing an outline of the mountains, I am picked up by Peter, G., and the trap. After three days' stay and I could willingly remain here for as many weeks for what have I seen of the upper valley or the opposite hills ? I leave Sarténé, and can bear witness to the good fare, moderate charges, and constant wish to oblige of Fatima, padrona of the Hotel d'Italie. Poor Fatima, rumour says, is forsaken by her husband, and dwells alone upon the hill of storms, as in the literal sense of the expression Sarténé must certainly be, for it is exposed to all the winds of heaven, and from its great elevation must needs be bitterly cold in winter. Just above the town, where the high road to Bonifacio passes the Capuchin convent, there is the finest view of Sarténé and the mountains the whole town stands out in a grand mass from the valley and heights, and there is something rough and feudal in its dark houses that places its architecture far above that of Ajaccio in a picturesque sense. See Plate 7. But to halt for drawing now is not to be thought of, inasmuch as this day's journey to Boni@facio is not only a long one, but because in the whole distance some fifty-three kilomètres, or thirty-two miles there is only a single wayside house, where the horses are to bait, yet where humanity, expecting food, would be severely disappointed. Hearing which, the Suliot has taken care to pack the old Coliseum sack with food for the day.  How grand at this hour is the broad light and shade of these mountains and valleys ! notwithstanding that such as leave their houses at ten or eleven A.M. complain of want of chiaroscuro in the south. How curious are the chapel-tombs, so oddly and picturesquely placed, and frequently so tasteful in design, gleam@ing among the rocks and hanging woods ! At first, after leaving Sarténé, the road passes through splendid woods of clustering ilex, and then begins to descend by opener country, shallower green vales and scattered granite tors or boulders, here and there passing plots of cultivation, and ever farther away from the high central mountains of the island. Now the distance sweeps down to lower hills, all clothed in deep green maquis, and at every curve of the road are endless pictures of gray granite rocks and wild olive.25 While I am thinking how pleasant it would be to get studies of this very peculiar scenery, by living at Sarténé, and walking seven or eight miles daily, Peter suddenly halts below the village of Giunchetto, which stands high above the road. What is the matter ? says G. but Peter only points to the village and crosses himself, and looks round at me. What has happened ? I repeat. Peter whispers, In that village a priest has lately died, and without con@fessing himself. In the midst of visions of landscape@- What, as Charles XII. said to his secretary, What has this bomb to do with what I am dictating@ ? Farther on, near the eleventh kilomètre, are some enormous granite blocks, with two or three stone huts by the road-side, and then follows a steep descent to the valley of the Ortola looking back, you see  a world of mist-folded mountains in the north-east, while ahead are maquis, and cystus carpets, sown with myriads of star-twinkling white flowers, broom, and purple lavender. The descent to the Ortola valley abounds with beauty, and by its verdure reminds me of more than one Yorkshire dale-here, instead of the oak or ash, depths of aged evergreen oak and gray-branched cork-trees, shading pastures  8, the river, a shallow stream, is crossed by a three-arched bridge and here, near a solitary stone hut, are a few cattle and some peculiarly hideous pigs-the only living things seen since I left Sarténé. Then, at the eighteenth kilomètre, an ascent on the south side of the valley brings me in sight of the long point and tower of Cape Roccaspina and of the broad sea, above which I halt at 9 A.M., for the great Lion of Roccaspina may not be passed without getting a sketch of it. And, truly, it is a remarkable object-an immense mass of granite perfectly resembling a crowned lion, placed on a lofty ledge of the promontory, and surrounded by bare and rugged rocks. 26 See Vignette, p. 55. The road now becomes a regular cornice coast-way, alternately descending and rising, always broad and good, and well protected by parapets long spurs of rock jut out into the sea beyond odorous slopes of myrtle and cystus, while in some parts enormous blocks and walls of granite form the left side of the picture. Presently the road diverges more inland, and is carried through wild and lonely tracts of maquis, varied by patches of corn at intervals, and recalling the valleys of Philistia when you begin to ascend towards the Judaean hills from the plains near Eleutheropolis. Two flocks of goats-of course, black-and a few black sheep and pigs, who emulate the appear@ance of wild boars, with one man and one boy, are the living objects which a distant hamlet J think Monaccia contributes to the life of the scene. Occasionally glimpses of the distant sea occur but, as far as eye can reach, the wild green unbroken maquis spreads away on every side. At 10.30 half our mournful task is done, and the mid-day halt at a house one of some six or seven by the wayside is reached. The appearance of these dwellings is very poor and wretched and a gendarme informs me@@ @@t@hat from the  and opposite it a ledge of rock, on which the tower of Roccaspina stands. An oddly-shaped block of stone rises near it on the sharp edge of rock it bears a striking resemblance to a colossal crowned lion, and the common people call it II leone coronato. .@. We proceeded along the coast, which is interrupted by arms of the sea, and melancholy. Small rivers creep through morasses into the sea, upon the coast cliffs of which gray towers hold guard. The air is foul and unhealthy. I saw a few small hamlets on the side of the hill, and was told that they were empty, for that the@ inmates do not return to them from the mountains till the month of September.@.@. Two small gulfs, that of Figari and that of Ventilegne, resemble fiords, c.-Gregorovius, p. 430. Failing the long-promised road from Ajaccio to Bonifacio, the sea twice bars your onward way to that city. As the shore is steep, it is necessary to go a good way out into the Gulf of Ventilegne to find a shallow ford, and thus you gallop, very poetically, but with no small discomfort, in the middle of the waves.@-@Valery, i., p. 229.  from the end of May till November they are all deserted, so unwhole@some is the air of this district and that the few peasants at present here go up at that season to the villages of Piannattoli or Caldarello-small clusters of houses higher up on the hill-side. How little cheerful the aspect of this part of the island must be then, one may imagine from what it is even in its inhabited condition. On a rising ground close by are some of those vast isolated rocks which characterise this southern coast of Corsica-a good spot whereat to halt for Fatima's breakfast. Looking southward, green lines of campagna stretch out into what is the first semblance of a plain that I have seen in this island, and which is exceedingly like portions of Syrian landscape. It was worth while to get a drawing of this, and I would willingly have stayed longer, but at I P.M. it is time to start again. The road continues across comparatively low ground by undulating inequalities, through wide maquis -dotted tracts, where here and there the tall giant-hemlock is a new feature in the more moist parts of the ground. Twice we descend to the sea at inlets or small creeks-Figari and Ventilegne-in each case passing the stream which they receive by a bridge, and at these points marshes and still salt pools show the malarious nature of the district. Nor does the landscape painter fail to rejoice that he has chosen this method of seeing all Corsica, and that he is able to drive rapidly over this part of it, where there is no need of halt for drawing, for the higher mountains are far away from the south of the island, and the hills nearer the coast stretch seaward with a persistent and impracticable length of line not to be reduced to agree@able pictorial proportion. Once only, at 3 P.M., about seven kilomètres from Bonifacio, I stop to draw, more to obtain a record of the topographic character of the south-west coast than for the sake of any beauty of scenery, of which the long spiky promontories hereabouts possess but little, although there is a certain grace in some of those slender points running far out into the blue water, and, though far inland, you may at times catch a glimpse of some heights of varied form yet, be your drawing never so long or narrow, the length of the whole scene is with difficulty to be compressed within its limits. At 3.30 I send on Peter and the trap to Bonifacio, and walk, for so many hours of sitting still in a carriage cramps limbs and head. As the hills, from the ascent to which I had made my last drawing, are left behind, Boni@facio, the Pisan or Genoese city, becomes visible extreme whiteness, cliffs as chalky as those of Dover, and a sort of Maltese look of fortified lines are the apparent characters at this distance of a city so full of interest and history. Opposite, towards the south, a thick haze continues to hide the coast of Sardinia, and this has been no light drawback to the day's journey, since the sight of remote mountains and the blue straits would have gone far to  the maquis monotony, driving through which has occupied so much of the time passed between Sarténé and Bonifacio.27 Meanwhile a space of three or four miles has to be done on foot, shut out from all distant view, as well as very uninteresting in its chalky white dryness of road, about which the only features are walls, with olives all bent to the north-east, and eloquently speaking of the force of the south-west wind along this coast. But at 4.30 P.M. fields of tall corn and long-armed olives replace this ugliness, and the road descends to a deep winding gorge or valley, closely sheltered and full of luxuriant vegetation, olive, almond, and fig. After the boulders and crags of granite, which up to this time have been the foregrounds in my Corsican journey, a new world seems to be entered on coming to this deep hollow where a stream apparently should run, but does not , for its sides are high cliffs of cretaceous formation, pale, crenelated, and with cavernous ledges, and loaded with vegetation. At 5 P.M. the road abruptly reaches the remarkable port of Bonifacio, which forms one of the most delightful and striking pictures possible. Terminating a winding and narrow arm of the sea, or channel, the nearer part of which you see between overhanging cliffs of the strangest form, it is com@pletely shut in on all sides, that opposite the road by which alone you can reach it being formed by the great rock on which the old fortress and city are built, and which to the south is a sheer precipice to the sea, or rather even in some parts of it visible from the harbour actually projecting above it. At the foot of this fort-rock lies a semicircle of suburban buildings at the water's edge, with a church, and a broad flight of shallow steps leading up to the top of this curious peninsular stronghold all these combine in a most perfect little scene, now lit up by the rays of the afternoon sun, and which I lose no time in drawing.28 See Plate 8. A broad and good carriage road leads up to the city, huge grim walls enclose it, and before you enter them you become aware how narrow is the  rds the south-west, namely, Santa Trinità-the tongue which ends in Capo di Feno-the white chalk cliffs of Bonifacio come into view, and this most southern and most original town of the island, itself snow-white like the coast, placed high up on the rocks a surprising prospect in the midst of the wide and depressing solitude.@-@Gregorovius, p. 430. The territory of the town of Bonifacio, built at the southern extremity of Corsica, is carefully culti@vated and covered with olive groves. The inhabitants, by toil and perseverance, have made their stony soil fertile, although it is devastated perpetually by terrible winds. As you approach the upper part of the territory of Bonifacio, you observe that all the trees are bent in an easterly direction by the pre@vailing winds, and their horizontal branches follow the same. These winds, prevailing from the west to the east, are produced by the central mountain mass of Corsica they are extremely violent at Cap Corso, and in the straits of Bonifacio, where navigation is often dangerous. Less strong at Calvi, they are unfelt at Ajaccio and Propriano they begin to prevail at Figari, and become very violent at Bonifacio.-Grandchamps, p. 29. 28 The position of Bonifacio is extraordinary, and perhaps unique. On a calcareous rock, hori@zontal at its summit, almost perpendicular at its sides, and pierced with vast caves its little peaceful port, an oval basin formed by nature its marvellous sea-grottoes its fortifications all these together make Bonifacio the most curious city in Corsica and to see it alone, the voyage thither would be  isthmus that joins the rock-site of Bonifacio to the main land from a small level space close below the fort you see the opposite coast of Sardinia, and you look down perpendicularly into the blue straits which divide the two islands. Very narrow streets conduct from the fortifications to the inner town the houses are lofty and crowded, and Bonifacio evidently possesses the full share of inconveniences natural to garrison towns of limited extent, with somewhat of the neglected and unprepossessing look of many southern streets and habitations. There was no difficulty in finding the Widow Carreghi's hotel, but its exterior and entrance were, it must be owned, not a little dismal, and the staircase, steep, narrow, wooden, dark, dirty, and difficult, leading to the inn rooms on the third floor, was such as a climbing South American monkey might have rejoiced in. Nevertheless, once safe at the top of this ladder-like climb there are several little and very tolerably habitable rooms and, as seems to be invariably the rule as to Corsican hostesses, the two here are very obliging and anxious to please. There was yet time to walk through the town, which I was surprised to find so extensive and populous. Some of the churches are ancient, and near the end of the rock though the lateness of the hour, together with a powder magazine and obstructive sentry, prevented my getting quite to its extremity a considerable plateau with barracks and other public buildings exists, and I can well imagine some days might be spent with great interest in this ancient place. As it was, I could but make a slight drawing from the edge of the precipice looking up to the harbour or sea-inlet, but from such examination it was evident that the most characteristic view of this singular and picturesque place must be made from the opposite side of the narrow channel, though it does not appear how, except by boat, such a point can be reached. Bonifacio is doubtless a most striking place and full of subjects for painting the bright chalky white of the rocks on which it stands, the deep green vegetation, and the dark gulf below it, add surprising contrasts of colour to the general effect of its remarkable position and outline.  old and heroic associations, of ancient MSS., and, above all, of the quiet and good population, which, unlike that of the rest of the island, has never carried arms, nor has it been a prey to Vendetta. Bonifacio, indeed, which had its own laws and coined its own money, was rather a confederate republic than a subject of Genoa. One of the oldest cities in Corsica, it owes its foundation to the illustrious Boniface, the Pisan lord, Marquis of Tuscany, Count of Corsica, Governor for the Emperors, c. Boniface landed on this coast A.D. 833, and built the castle.@.@. At the entrance of the town, opposite the street called Pizzalunga, is the house in which Charles V. lodged in 1541 the door is decorated with an arabesque on marble of ele@gant design. When Charles V. left the city, his host, Philip Cattacciolo, shot the horse the emperor had used, saying that after him no one else was worthy to mount him.@.@. In the same street, and nearly opposite, I was shown a room occupied by Napoleon I.@.@. The great tower Torrione , now a pow@der-magazine, was the old castle, and the only fortress of the town at the time of the arrival of the Genoese colony in 1195. La Manichella is the point nearest to Sardinia, from which it is but three leagues.-@Valery, i., p. 234.- Valery gives many details of the life of Buonaparte while residing here for eight months as second commandant under M. Quenza-E. L. In order to conceal the famine which menaced them during the siege of the city by Alfonso  Returning to the Widow Carreghi's hotel, confusion prevailed throughout that establishment, owing to its being crowded at this hour by, not only the officers of the garrison, who take their food there, but an additional host of offi@cial civilians, gendarmerie, c., to-morrow being a day of great excitement, on account of the conscription taking place, in consequence of which event the Sous-préfet is here from Sarténé, with numerous other dignitaries. It was not wonderful that the two obliging women, who seemed joint hostesses, were somewhat dazed by the unbounded noise in the small and overfull rooms nevertheless, they got a very good supper for me and my man, only apologising continually that le circonstanze of the full house, and of the late hour at which I had arrived, prevented their offering more food and in greater comfort and quiet. Everybody seemed to be aware that I was a travelling painter, and all proffered to show me this or that the Sous-préfet, they said, had gone out to meet me, and the Mayor, for whom I have left a card and a letter from M. Galloni d'Istria he lives in the Carreghi house , would come and see me to-morrow. Another of the persons at the table gave me his address at Casabianda, and begged that, if I should come there, he might show me the ruins of Aleria. The whole party, continentals and in@sulaires, were full of civility. All night long there was singing and great noise in the streets, so that in spite of my camp-bed very little sleep was attainable. April 22.-How to obtain the best illustrations of Bonifacio ? and in a single day ?-that is to say, all that can be got upon dry land for though I am aware that the grottoes here are considered as some of the finest known, I have resolved not to go into any of them, for they are all situated outside the channel, in the cliffs on the open sea, and I mentally decide to relinquish whatever of seeing Corsica depends on entering a boat. Arragon in 1441, and which afterwards became so horrible, the Bonifazini threw loaves over the walls, and the women actually sent to Alphonso a fresh cheese made of their own milk. Hunger soon made the trait of the Roman daughters' filial piety common enough, for these intrepid and tender women ran, in the midst of dangers, to suckle the exhausted combatants, and there was not one of those who during the siege had not been revived by the generous draught.@.@. At last, after four months of dreadful sufferings, the Genoese galleys brought relief.-@Valery, i., 246.@- Valery's details of the history of Bonifacio are full of interest.-E.L. The churches of Bonifacio attest its ancient importance, its manners, riches, and civilisation. S. M. Majeure, an elegant church of Pisan construction, c. St. Dominique, the old church of the Templars, of a light Gothic, with an octangular tower, is also very remarkable, and is the largest in Corsica.@.@. St. Francis dates from 1398, c.@-@Valery, i., p. 239. The rock on which Bonifazio is built is connected with the land on two sides it is lashed by the surges of the straits on the third it is washed by a narrow arm of the sea, which forms gulf, harbour, and fortifying moat at the same time, and is enclosed by most precipitious, indeed, inaccessible hills. The force of the water has crumbled away the shores all round, and produced the most grotesque forms. Seen from below, that is, from the sea, which in many places has no edging of shore at all, this rock, rising quite precipitously from the waves, is most awe-inspiring. Bonifacio was founded by the Tuscan Marquis whose name it bears, in the year 833, after a naval victory over the Saracens, to oppose a dam to their piratical incursions, as they were  attentive Carreghi hostesses bring me coffee at 5, in a tumbler, which, it seems, is the mode in South Corsican households, and they give as a reason for doing so, that the coffee keeps hotter in glass than earthen@ware, which I do not deny though at this early hour the unexpected feeling suggested by this practice-to wit, of your being about to drink a glass of porter-is objectionable. It is not possible to praise this hotel for its clean@liness, and yet it does not seem fair to judge Corsican inns, as some do, as if they were in Lombardy or Tuscany, constantly frequented by strangers. Take any part of Italy or France, away from the routine line of travellers, and you will find the inns hardly as good as those here. 6 A.M.-The first work of to-day is to complete the drawings begun yesterday at the head of the port-rather a long task, as much accurate detail is necessary. It is not easy to realise that the sea is on the further side of the fortress as well as on this. The harbour is really beautiful at this hour, when everything is reflected in the water, and the Genoese tower, which commands a view far up the channel, stands picturesquely in the foreground. While I work there comes down the hill a large party of what G. calls  people-to wit, M. le Sous-préfet, Dr. Montepagano the Maire, with others of the local notables and clergy, and on their arrival at where I sit, introductions, with much lifting of hats, ensue. The mayor seems a particularly agreeable man, and the whole party give an impression of being well-bred and pleasant, nor did they long interrupt my labours every one offered to show me some portion of the city, or aid me in some way, but from the limited time at my disposal, I could only venture to name the convent of Sta. Trinità as a place I should like to visit, on account of its commanding a distant view of Bonifacio, and it was agreed that Dr. Monte@pagano should take me there at 2 P.M. The next thing was to procure a view from the side of the channel opposite the city, and to this end I began, with G., an examination of pathsaths of the island. Of the fortifications erected by the Marquis, the great old tower, called Torrione, is still standing. Three other towers besides are erected upon the rock Bonifacio carries them all in her armorial bearings. The town, as well as the island, subsequently came under the Pisans but the Genoese deprived them of Bonifacio as early as the year 1193. A Bonifazine, Murzolaccio, wrote a separate history of his town in the year 1625 it was published at Bologna, and is extremely rare. The memorable siege of the town by Alfonso of Arragon, is related by Peter Cyrnaeus.@-@Gregorovius, p. 432. The town of Bonifacio was founded towards the year 833 by Boniface, Count of Corsica. This town became a commune in the beginning of the eleventh century, and became subject to the republic of Pisa about the end of it. In 1195 the Genoese took Bonifacio, and massacred its population. Early in the sixteenth century the town withstood Alfonso of Arragon in a remarkable siege. In 155@3 it was taken by the Turks.@-@Grandchamps, p. 30. Bonifacio repulsed Alfonso, King of Arragon, and the Corsicans of Vincitello d'Istria in 1421. Later, in 1551, in the time of Sampiero, the Turks and French allied under Henry II., and, led by the famous Dragut, took the city by stratagem, after a long and memorable siege.@.@. In the suburbs of Bonifacio stands a long aqueduct, built by the Pisans, which furnishes water in abundance to that part of the city.@-@Galletti. p. 163.  white soil with the dark vegetation, made the search as uncomfortable as at first it was profitless for, pursuing a line parallel to the inlet, we diverged at times towards the water, but as often got entangled among vineyards and walls till growing weary with climbing steep paths that led me no nearer to the point desired, and half blinded with the dazzling and hot white pathways, I was giving up the task. The Suliot, however, persevered, saying,  is a shame to go back, and left me to return in half an hour, having discovered a dell leading down to the water, where a ledge at the end of the rocks seemed to command a view of the other side of the channel. And so it turned out to be, though the path along the cliff edge was so narrow and precipitous, and so giddily overhanging the water, that even with assistance I could hardly manage to arrive at the required height. From this point there is a perfect view of this curious and interesting old Corsican city, and I know of no scene of the kind more strikingly beautiful. The exceedingly deep colour of the quiet narrow channel con@trasts wondrously with the pale hues of the rocks and buildings, and the strange lonely character of the fort, and of the projecting cliffs rising perpen@dicularly from the water's edge, and striped with long ledges of singular form, is most impressive. A solitary cormorant flitting by is the only sign of life, and a complete silence adds to the charm of this wild spot, so full of memories of the sufferings of the Bonifacio people. I would gladly linger some days to explore more fully the position of this historic mediaeval city, so unique in appearance and site. When the wind lashes this inland channel, how grandly the foaming waves must beat against the sides and hollows of these cliffs, wrinkled and worn by long buffeting ! See Plate 9. While I am drawing, the stillness is broken by two boats, which, from the dis@tant harbour come down the channel, those who are in them singing O pescator dell' onde 29 at first the sound is feeble, but gradually swells into a loud chorus over the calm water and among the great caverns of the echoing cliffs. The boats steer for the cove near which I am sitting, and twenty individuals land on a ledge of rock just below me, where they place a barrel of wine and provisions, and prepare to pass the day. These are conscripts, chosen as soldiers only yesterday, and this their farewell fête before leaving their native Bonifacio, a place so peculiar in itself, and so remote from the outer world, that the attachment its inhabitants are said to bear towards it is easily understood. Leaving the cormorant perch or ledge, where I have made my drawing, I return to the town, and after a hot climb, first through the dells near the channel, choked with foliage, airless and stifling, and then by the blinding white stair-paths, reach Mdme. Carreghi's hotel before noon.  their lights, and the fishermen to sing the beautiful fishing song, O pescator dell' onde. -Gregorov@ius, p. 134.  or rather crawfish , good fowl, and other dishes more numerous than necessary, were ample proof that the good people of the house were in earnest last night when they promised better fare and now that the rooms are less noisy and crowded, I look upon the inn as a very tolerable place of sojourn. The Widow Carreghi, like Fatima of Sarténé, is also anxious to improve her house, though with very decidedly conservative opinions as to some of its shortcomings, for, to her inquiry, Come credete che posso far meglio nostra povera casa ?-What do you think can be done to improve our poor house ? I suggest a cleaning of the remarkably dirty entrance and stairs by way of a commencement. But to this Widow Carreghi gives a flat negative in the most positive manner, Signore, qui non e mai uso di polir le scale le scale non si pulisce mai !-Here, sir, it is never the custom to clean stairs stairs are never cleaned, never ! So I was silent. At 2 comes Dr. Montepagano, and walks with me through a part of the town, showing me several points of interest, such as the house where the Emperor Charles V. lived in 1510, a small abode, and very unimperial in appearance, and that in which Buonaparte resided in 1793. The worthy doctor had insisted, much against my will, that we should use the carriage of one of his friends, but when we arrived at the port, where the vehicle in question awaited us, it was found to carry only one besides the driver, whereon I had to send G. up to the town for Peter and my own trap and, until its arrival, the doctor and myself sat by a fountain close to the harbour, which is celebrated for the excellence of its water, discoursing on some peculiarities in the ornithology of the district. Then we drive up by the white cliffs and green hollow, down which I came yesterday on entering the town, and along the bald road, where stand the scanty wind-bent olives, till we come to the foot of the hills of La Trinità. A footpath leads to the great granite rocks, in a nook among which a small Franciscan monastery has now succeeded to the hermitage mentioned by Valery in 1835. The view from the convent garden is very remarkable, and as the day is clear, the north coast of Sardinia is perfectly seen in all its length and detail, in which there is much beauty, though, in some respects, it is rather disappointing, the height of the mountains beyond the straits being inconsiderable compared with those of Corsica, and the long line of hills seem wanting in grandeur. Now that I am acquainted with the position of Bonifacio, I perceive that from here its peculiar character cannot in the least be indicated, as the narrow arm or inlet of the sea is completely hidden by the higher ground on this side of it consequently, the city seems to stand on a part of the broad level on its western side, instead of rising, as it really does, from a rock platform, almost entirely surrounded by water. Nevertheless, this Santa Trinità view-the monastery itself has nothing picturesque to recommend it-is one very curious and impressive. You feel, as it were,  the end of the world, as you look at the far white fortress through the stems of the large olives growing among great boulders in the convent garden beyond it is nothing but the wide sea, and the low line of Sardinia on the horizon. At 6 we drove back to the town.30 Dr. Montepagano, the Maire, says that two years ago there were two Englishmen here, one of them Mr. C., the name of the other he cannot remember, but will show me his photograph to-morrow. The Maire's acquaintance has been well worth making he is a most friendly and well-informed gentleman. April 23.-At 6 A.M. an early visit from M. Trani, to whom I had brought an introductory letter from M. Merimée, but who was absent from the city yesterday. The Corsicans seem most anxious to show every attention to strangers, and I regretted that I could not see more of this gentleman, who was very agreeable, and who evidently entertained a warm recollection of my introducer. Dr. Montepagano also called and brought the promised photo@graph. Behold, it was of my friend J. B. H. ! I was not aware he had ever visited this island. At 7 I left Bonifacio and its kindly inhabitants, with more regret than is usually felt after so short a stay in any place. It is full of an indefinable romance and interest not shared by either Ajaccio or Sarténé a kind of wild and solemn classic grandeur prevails about its lofty fortress walls and in the views from them, either towards the screens of steep rock rising from the deep and narrow channel, or seaward to the strange pale cliffs and the long line of Sardinian hills. The port scene is a little gem, and I feel sure that there are many more beauties in the narrow valley running eastward among the hills, and from the coast towards the lighthouse. 31 The peasantry about Bonifacio seem of a small stature, and not as well looking as those in other parts of Corsica among the women I did not see even one tolerably pretty face. All dress in dark brown. As a 30 The oratory of La Trinité, three miles from Bonifacio, and one mile from the port of Paraguano -presumed to be the site of the Palla-is worth a visit.@-@Valery, p. 253. 31 In the isles of San Bainzo, Cavallo, and Lavezzi, are old quarries of granite used by the Romans, and enormous remains of half-sculptured columns, c., c. Some interesting details are given of the remains of the works of antiquity in these islets.-@Valery, p. 256. The isles of Cavallo, Lavezzi, and S. Bainzo, and many others, which form the archipelago of the Bouches de Bonifacio, make the passage very dangerous for vessels. These rocks have caused innumer@able disasters in 1855 the frigate La Semillante, carrying troops and munitions for the army in the Crimea, was shipwrecked there, and no soul was saved. In these islets, and particularly in that of S. Bainzo, great columns and other blocks of granite hewn by the Romans may be seen traces left by fire on the virgin rock, too, are there, as well as charred wood about the forges which were used in these quarries.-Galletti, p. 167. The grottoes of St. Anthony, Saint Barthélémy, le Dragonale, their magnificent extent and stalactites, peopled with seals and pigeons, are described by Valery, pp. 249, 250. In Gregorovius the chapter about the siege of Bonifacio in 1421, and, indeed, all he has written on the subject of Bonifacio, its histories, legends, and scenery, and of the great caves, which I did net visit, are most charming pp. 327 to 456, c. c. .-@E.  of Bonifacio are said to be, as their character has been always represented, quiet and well conducted nor was the savage Vendetta ever known in the territory, which was, indeed, separated from all the rest of Corsica, not more by its isolated position than by the habits and circum@stances of its inhabitants. The race of donkeys, of which there seem to be many used, are the smallest I have seen in the island.32 The road to my next halting-place, Porto Vecchio, to which I set out at 7 A.M., is, for a short way, the same as that by which alone Bonifacio can be entered but it soon strikes off to the east, and, after passing through beautiful sheltered groves of rich olives, the white chalky soil is quitted, and once more the familiar granite rocks appear, interspersed with slopes of turf, cultivated undulations, and spaces gay with flowers-may or black@thorn in full bloom, and a wilderness of vegetation. The road does not run near the sea-once or twice only are there glimpses of it between heights clothed with high and dense maquis -but mostly along a rather flat vale or small plain, half covered with underwood and cork-trees, and lying between low granite hills on the left, and a similar but lower ridge on the right. And such is the route for nearly three hours, when, after a dip down to a small bay the Gulf of Sta. Giulia , and a pull up on the opposite side, the valley of the Stabiaccia, the stream flowing into the Gulf of Porto Vecchio is reached. Hereabouts is the only bad bit of road encountered since leaving Ajaccio-a causeway in process of being raised across some marshy ground, and not as yet complete.33 A good way ahead, the town of Porto Vecchio appears on a hill above the Gulf, in the midst of what is characteristic of all the surrounding country, excessively abundant vegetation in parts a regular jungle, with unhealthy looking marshes and pieces of water at intervals, in the neighbourhood  to Porto Vecchio, by the hamlet of Sota, are the ruins of the Castle of Campana, ancient stronghold of the infamous tyrant, Ors' Alamanno.-@Valery, p. 258. 33 Porto Vecchio is a spacious haven, capable of containing a very large fleet. It is five miles long, above a mile and a half broad, has a great depth of water and a good bottom, and, being land-locked on every side, is well sheltered from storms.@.@. Porto Vecchio may vie with the most distinguished harbours in Europe.-Boswell, p. 20. Diodorus Siculus celebrates Corsica for the excellence of its harbours.  island being of very easy access has a most beautiful port, called the Syracusian. This, anciently called the Syracusian, has now the name of Porto Vecchio.-Boswell, p. 19. Porto Vecchio, a calm and sheltered harbour, is one of those insalubrious and abandoned positions which may one day undergo the most vast changes. S. Florent on the side of France, Porto Vecchio on that of Italy, may become useful and magnificent stations. At present, this considerable town, which contains 1,700 inhabitants, is forsaken during the summer for the mountains. A thick vegetation of olives surrounds it. The salt works are susceptible of great improvement, for they are well situated, though not paved, and might be turned to good account.-@Valery, p. 259. This little town on the east coast of the island is quite fallen from its earlier splendour. It is girt with walls, and appears from a distance to be an important town. Alas, what an illusion for the traveller who enters it !-Galletti, p. 168. Porto Vecchio is a vast gulf, 3,000 metres long and as many broad and by improvement, its port,  small midges and loud frogs proclaim, even at this early season of the year, a dangerous atmosphere. But apart from its unhealthiness, the wildness of the scenery has a great charm, the more that towards the west, finely formed hills stand forth with a stern beauty, so that I could not resist sending on Peter and the trap, and stopping to draw till 11 A.M. Every shrub and thicket seems alive with the invisible nightingale, whose song Fills the soul Of that waste place with joy. Porto Vecchio, about which I make an exploring ramble before entering it, is a place of forlorn appearance, with no little picturesqueness in its old gray walls and towers, but joined to a general look of decay, more agreeable to a painter's eye than indicative of the inhabitants' prosperity. Nor did the interior offer any greater signs of vitality-unfinished houses, heaps of stones, shattery wooden outer stairs and galleries, with much dirt and a large supply of idle loiterers. On one side of a small piazza is a row of somewhat better buildings, among which the hotel -kept by the widow Gianelli, an old woman like one of Michael Angelo's Fates-resembles some others I have seen in its very bad and dirty stair entrance, but also in its tolerably decent little apart@ments a small public salle a manger the diligence from Bonifacio to Bastia stops here for refreshment , with sofas that do duty for beds, two small bed@rooms, by good luck unoccupied, and a sort of kitchen used by the family, complete the hotel arrangements but no part of it is as tidy or well-furnished as the inns of Grosseto or Sarténé. While Madame Gianelli produces breakfast, M. Quenza, the Maire of Porto Vecchio, to whom I have forwarded a letter from M. Galloni d'Istria, comes to visit me-a genial and intelligent person, who offers me his com@pany, to show me some of the best points for making drawings of the town, and who talks of the great pine forests of Spedale, which M. Merimée had par@ticularly recommended me to visit they are within a few hours' drive, and a good road of the second-class, or route forestière, leads to them, so that this fact begins to tempt me to remain a second day here for the sake of making the excursion. M. Quenza departs, and Mdme. Gianelli, bringing coffee in a tumbler, asks if I will dine at 5.30 with the continentali ? - Tutti monshieu, is her expression-government employes here, the director of the telegraph,  may become the finest in the Mediterranean. Its situation is magnificent the territories of the two basins which open out into it are of great fertility the port, vast and safe, is sheltered by the mountains which surround it. Of all the points of the island, it is that most adapted to the formation of a maritime arsenal. The marshes round the gulf, and the bad air which prevails during the summer, the choking of the harbour by sand, are all evils within the remedies of science and labour c. Its great military importance and its commercial influence would extend from the Gulf of Santa Manza to Fiumorbo, for there is no port on the east side from Porto Vecchio to Bastia.-@Grandchamps, pp. 34, 35. Numerous details and plans are given in M. Grandchamps' book of the gulf and harbour of Porto Vecchio, a site which is spoken of as one admitting no doubt of its future greatness.-E. L.  salt works, c. but I decline tying myself to return at a certain hour, for there may be work to do till  follows a return visit to M. le Maire. M. Quenza lives in a large house, with an unpleasant entrance, and all but impossible stairs, landing you in a very large and lofty room altogether out of character with the approach to it. M. Quenza, however, was out, and finding only Madame, a baby, and the room very much in deshabille, I apologise, and retreat to a height outside this sad and ruinous-looking village-in better days a com@paratively flourishing town. Here, overlooking the flat shore and the salt pans at the foot of the hill, the calm gulf, and the generally unhealthy look of crowded vegetation characterising the neighbourhood, I make a drawing, until joined by M. Quenza, who has been delayed by having to preside as maire at a civil marriage. Porto Vecchio must be a warm place during winter sheltered from all cold westerly winds, its climate is vaunted, and I should think justly, as the warmest in Corsica the conditions which make it so unfit as a residence in summer, rendering it precisely the reverse in winter. The Maire takes me up to a knoll on the north-west side of the town, and there I pass most of the rest of the day, for it commands the best view of the town and gulf. See Plate 10. A tone of sadness broods over the scene, owing to the aged and forsaken look of the thinly-populated Porto Vecchio, and to the absence of dwellings round it but the quiet gulf, like a lake, nearly landlocked by the low hills, the beautiful colour and texture given to the landscape by its extensive cork forests and olive woods, communicate to this scenery a great charm of calm softness, and though possessed of no magni@ficence, it has great attractions for a painter through a certain mournful wildness and an air of antiquity. Somewhat it reminds me of Santa Maura, especially as to its extent of desolate flat ground near the salt works by the sea. Later I passed an hour at the Maire's house, where I made the acquaintance of Madame Quenza, a ladylike and good-looking woman, and a small Quenza, a sharp little fellow, with Napoleonic eyes. I was shown a large collection of letters, written by the first Emperor Napoleon, and by General Paoli, to the great-grandfather of M. Quenza. Those of the former are on coarse paper and coarsely written, chiefly, I think, in the year 1794 or 1795. There is an orderly-book, too, with enough signatures of Buonaparte to make the fortune of an autograph seller heaps, and bundles too, of Paoli's correspondence, whether ever used or not as materials for his life I am ignorant.34 Lastly, as the sun set, I came again to the great rocks whence I had made my drawing, and sat in a world of gray silence. Thus far in my Corsican tour several things surprise me. First, the excellence of the roads secondly, the  possession of an old man of 80, M. Jean Baptiste Quenza, who in 1793 commanded the battalion of national Liamone volunteers, and under whom Buonaparte served as second captain.@-@Valery, p. 231.  in town and country thirdly, the good breeding of the lower class of people, who are, without any exception, respectful and obliging, and always leave me undisturbed to my artistic devices fourthly, the decent accommodation and good fare at these small country inns, which are far better relatively to the larger or town hotels than I have known to be the case in other countries, Italy, Sicily, c. All this I was unprepared for and I confess that Corsica, to which I came without any great interest, gives me daily a desire to see more of itself. Mdme. Gianelli, whose face would make a wonderful, if not beautiful study, sends in for supper some soup and manzo, or boiled beef, capital fish denticé , and lobster, a steak, with potatoes and salad, and broccio at many large Italian towns you would not fare better. M. Quenza tells me that there is literally no winter here and I believe that for purposes of study and climate, this half-dead verdant place might well serve for a painter's home through the winter. It might be wished, however, that the neglected and dirty state of the exterior of Porto Vecchio did not extend to the interior of its dwellings, as it undoubtedly does. I have decided to start at 5 to-morrow to the forests, and Madame Q. guarantees the early appearance of her husband. April 24.-At 5 A.M., Peter the coachman, trap and ponies, G. with folio, cloaks, and provision for the day, are ready and presently M. Quenza joining me, also with a full basket, we start for the mountain, soon leaving the main road and passing through an extensive cork forest, around which the soft pleasant character of the Porto Vecchio scenery is very charming. These cork woods, too, are beautiful in colour and in the texture of their thickly clustering foliage, and from their deep red stems where the bark has been removed. M. Quenza tells me that he possesses 4,000 trees in this wood, each averaging a produce of ten sous annually. Reaching the foot of the hills, at present covered with mist, we now begin to ascend towards the forests, and the road, one of the second class, called in Corsica, Routes Forestières, is henceforth carried, curving and winding with a steep ascent, up the face of the mountain and though it is a good one, yet it has no parapet, and the fact of seeing mules pulling up a cart, the wheels of which are not more than an inch from the precipice's edge, by no means makes me more at ease in the carriage, from which I dismount, and thenceforth walk. My companion, the Maire, is full of cheery fun, and stories innumerable. Presently we pass a wild and singular looking individual tending two or three goats, who waves his hand to M. Quenza with an air of lordly patronage, quite unlike the respectful obeisance I observe paid to him by other peasants. But this poor fellow, says M. Quenza, is a harmless lunatic, and his present delusion is that he is king of Sardinia, which explains his magnificent  short time since the poor fellow was persuaded of a far less agreeable fact, for he believed that he had swallowed two gendarmes, and that the only remedy for this mishap was to eat nothing, in order to starve the intruders, which reso@lution he rigidly adhered to, till his own life was nearly sacrificed. When all but gone, however, he exclaimed, Ecco, tutti due son morti di fame !-both of them have died of hunger ! -and thereupon he resumed eating and work with joy. M. Quenza also tells many stories of the too-famous Colomba,35 who was his aunt by marriage she died only four years ago, and one of her sisters is still living. Among his anecdotes of that surprising female, he  at one time the family who were in Vendetta with her own in their town Fozzano, wished to build a tower, which would have commanded that of their antagonists. Colomba, therefore, improvised a party of her own people, who sate down to play at cards on the ground opposite the tower, and when they were settled she went out and joined them, as if observing the game, always dancing and dandling her baby at the same time. But in the dress of the child she had concealed a loaded pistol, and, watching her oppor@tunity, suddenly shot one of the masons on the tower, replacing the pistol in the child's girdle under a shawl. The wildest confusion ensued but the card players had their hands full of cards, and their guns all lying @by their sides, while Mdme. Colomba, with both hands, was pacifying the screaming child, so  a celebrated leader in the Vendetta-wars at Fozzano, and is supposed to be the heroine of M. Merimée's beautiful tale of the same name.-E. L.  that the party seemed guiltless, and a false direction was given to suspicion. This feat Colomba is said to have performed on two more of the builders, till the raising of the tower was deferred sine  Quenza says that there are pheasants on the eastern side of the island and, speaking of the immense multitude of blackbirds produced by the maquis, he says that those of Sari of Fiumorbo are esteemed before all others on account of some peculiarity in their food.36 At 6.30 the mists begin to lift, but it is not a day for clearness of distance the road, now that we are fairly high on the mountain, winds along deep gullies, whence far-stretching ilex woods are seen on all sides a few cantonniers, or road menders, and now and then woodcutters, are met from time to time. Crags half lost in cloud, and pines growing as it were in air, or groups of ever@green oak, often tempted me to stop and draw, but I postponed doing so until the distance should be more distinct, now that on this lofty ascent all the Gulf of Porto Vecchio with Sardinia beyond was widening out at each zig-zag turn. We pass Spedale, a house inhabited by cantonniers, that has been long in sight, as well as a ruined chapel close to it, and some of the masses of rock and wood near here are wonderfully beautiful, yet the feeling that two or three hours' study is necessary to do them any justice in a drawing, besides the necessity of getting up to the top, prevents my lingering. At the twenty-first kilomètre from Porto Vecchio the plateau, or summit of the mountain, is reached. Here there is a new world, one all of pines, and, to my thinking, a gloomy one, for just now the clouds are low on these lofty regions, and the vistas of gray stems towering up to masses of darker foliage seem rather monotonous than cheerful. A little onwards much of the ground is cleared, and in a bare space encircled by lofty trees, stands a large double dwelling, with gardens adjoining here the families of two foresters or guardiani live, by one of whom I am taken a little distance off to see some of the largest pine-trees-giants of twenty-five mètres in height and upwards. But these forests are on level ground, and command no distance of any sort, and, except on account of their magnitude, fail to interest me gladly would I exchange all the magnificent monotony of these tall straight mountain trees for one glimpse of the beautiful Pinus maritim@a bending over the rocks by the sea at Kakiskali or Mount Athos, which places, indeed, the poetical sighing 36 One hundred thousand blackbirds are annually exported from Ajaccio alone.@.@. @They sell there for three and four sous each.-Campbell. It is barbarous to destroy, for the mere luxury of the table, birds whic'i make such fine musick surely their melody affords more enjoyment than what can be had from eating them.-Boswell, p. 44. Sari of Fiumorbo , a village standing well in sight, has but a population of 200. The ruins of two castles belonging to the rich and powerful Renuccio are near it. Near Sari you remark some traces of the Roman way-the only one discovered in Corsica-which, starting from Mariana, passed by Aleria, and ended in Palla.-@Valery, p.  vast woods of Spedale in some measure recalls. And so I go to the guardiano's house, doubting if, after all, I shall get much drawing to-day, and glad meantime of a thick cloak, on account of the cold, and to attack M. Quenza's substantial breakfast and not unwelcome wine gourds. The only memorandum I could procure of this part of the mountain was by going a little later with the forester to a massif, as they term the groups of trees, growing among great rocks on the plateau these are of great size, and stand up majestically against the mountain side. To the forester, a grim tall fellow, who watched the progress of my sketch, I offer one of my pencils, on the nature of which he made some remarks where@upon he only says, There are enough in my house, but I will take it -ne ho basta in casa, ma lo prendo -which was not gracious on the part of Don Guglielmo di Roccaserra, for so they called him then, leaving M. Quenza, who was tired, to follow in the carriage, I came away from the level recesses of the forest, and began to descend the mountain. At 1.30 P.M., as I come down the zig-zags above the house named Spedale, the distance and Sardinia on the horizon are hidden by mist the groups of immense ilex, with pines and crags, are all shadeless-opposite the afternoon sun-so that in the end I walked down the mountain without getting another record of its scenery. As a pictorial gain, the excursion of to-day has certainly been a failure had I walked up alone, many effects of light and shade at different points in these beautiful woods could have been secured whereas, fearing to inconvenience M. Quenza by a succession of fidgety halts, I did nothing at all, beyond illustrating my theory that study is next to impossible if you join a companion. Nor have I felt very enthusiastic admiration during this my first visit to a Corsican forest perhaps others I may see will have finer qualities, and the day may be less cloudy and cold. At 4.30, M. Quenza, who does not appear fully to understand my mania for walking, picks me up we drive across the cork woods, golden in the afternoon sun, and reach Porto Vecchio by 6 P.M. A visit to the Maire's house closed the day's work.@. The sharp-eyed small Quenza, a little fellow not six years old, exhibits a curiously retentive memory, and should turn out a naturalist, for he knew the name of every animal depicted in Buffon, though showing most partiality for the monkey tribe. Every one of those apes, which nearly half a century ago I used to copy so carefully from the well-known volumes at home, this little man knew at sight, shouting out, c'est le Talapoin, c'est le Carcajou, c. These would be pleasant people to know, should one ever take a fit of wintering in Corsica, and make Porto Vecchio head-quarters. I am told, too, that the country round is so famed for the variety of its entomology, especially of Lepidoptera, that many naturalists from France and Germany pass some time here on that account, and that one of these, a M. Reveillier, whose acquaintance I was sorry not to have had  of making, has resided here for several years moreover, two diligences to and from Ajaccio pass in every twenty-four hours, so one would not be quite shut out from the outer world. After dinner at the hotel, supplied as usual with that wish to oblige which I begin to recognise as an eminent Corsican trait, the friendly M. Quenza comes, bringing me a lot of pine-cones which I had asked for, and a letter to one of his relatives at Quenza,37 in case I should go there, that being the name of the village high up towards the plain of Coscione, near Mount Incudine, to which the whole population of Porto Vecchio migrate in summer. During the vintage they come to and fro, but as a rule, the town is entirely deserted after the end of May until November.38 To-day I am grieved to have worked so little possibly I may see finer forest scenery in Corsica, but hardly any that can look down on so fair a scene of sea and distance as is commanded by the south-eastern side of the moun@tain I ascended, towards the wooded plain, the old town of Porto Vecchio and its olives, the gulf, and the Island of Sardinia beyond. Some of the groups of rock and foliage, too, were striking and beautiful, and yet I have not found it possible to bring away more than a few jottings. April 25.-Either Solenzaro, or Ghisonaccio, or Migliacciara, is to be my halting place for to-night, but it is not easy to decide this question beforehand, or to obtain very clear information as to the distances from what I gather it may be forty kilomètres to the first named place, and some twenty beyond to either of the others. Leaving forlorn Porto Vecchio at 6 A.M., the road on the eastern side of the island runs a good way inland, and seldom approaches the sea. The scenery partakes of the grave character of Corsican landscape yet in this district I observe some qualities not noticed hitherto, owing to the mists which seem to linger about these wooded regions, and over the low grounds near the gulf. For a time, in passing through the cork wood, the variede in Corsica it is of old date, very healthy, and contains only 200 inhabitants. The vine cannot grow there the water is fresh, abundant, and exquisite. Quenza is principally composed of country houses, occupied only in summer, and badly kept enough, confirming the Corsican proverb, Che due case tiene una ne piove-who has two houses will find the rain come in to one of them. The old church of the village, where mass is celebrated only once a year, was built A.@D. 1000 by the Pisans.@-@Valery, i., p. 217. 38 Coscione, a plateau of vast extent of turf or pasturage, is the best in Corsica, and one of the most beautiful in the world. Watered by limpid fountains, and traversed by delightful streamlets, the Coscione becomes during summer the resort of all the inhabitants of Quenza and its neighbourhood. The Coscione is then alive with a multitude of horses and cattle the latter, small, lean, active, and almost wild, gallop about it like horses. Speaking of the want of cattle-sheds or stables in this part of Corsica, which are much needed, it occurred once that a skilful agriculturist, sent by the munificence of M. Pozzo di Borgo to the island, said to the peasants, Why do you not get rid of the stones in your fields, and use them in making little sheds for your cattle ? Do you take us for ambassadors ? was the contemptuous reply of these enemies of rational progress.@-@Valery, i., p. 219.  of the gulf hills gives the landscape great interest the lovely morning light falling on the dark red and silvery-gray cork stems, and the change@fully clouded mountains inland are full of beauty while, on the right, gleams of bright water are seen through rich undulations of wild green forest. 39 At 7, low hills shut out the gulf, maquis and cork woods are on each side, and on the left an amphitheatre of far mountains, all soberly green, with a world of detached granite masses. Two or three sets of wayside houses enliven the scene, some plots of corn, some goats, and a few people. The torrent dell' Oso is passed, a trivial stream at present, but two long bridges over which the road is carried show that water is not always so scarce as now. And a sort of feverish chill appears to me to prevail in these low marshy tracts, however lovely to look at the jungle or underwood hereabouts may be, so rich in variety of vegetation-laurustinum and arbutus, wild olive and sloe-tree, hawthorn, hemlock, bramble and bryony, ilex and cork, myrtle, broom, high heath, clematis, cystus, and reeds, with here and there a fine pine glittering with a silvery dotting of Processionary Bombyx sacs. See Notes at the end of the Volume. And only where there is a break in this wilderness, or where a carpet of red and white cystus occurs, does the pale asphodel peep above this many-foliaged confusion. Long tracts of such vegetation succeed each other with little change as we drive along a level road and there is little to be done except drowsily writing up notes, while Peter the coachman hums faintly, like a drowning fly. Wondrous to say, at 7.30 A.M., there is a roadside village, perhaps con@taining twenty houses it is Santa Lucia di Porta Vecchio beyond it the road crosses a clear and pretty river of the same name, flowing to the sea near the Gulf of Pinarello and then we relapse into cork and maquis, maquis and cork. After 8 o'clock there is more variety in the drive, nearing the sea by the tower and Punto della Fautea after passing which, and another stream and good bridge, the road becomes a cornice, running above the shore, where the exquisite vegetation is delightful@-@the superb yellow hemlock, brown and purple lavender, rose and white cystus, in gorgeous masses of colour, wild olive draped with festoons of wild vine, and now and then patches of blue flax, and silver spots of tall white amaryllis. The sameness of these  district in summer, says -On the whole journey I met not a living creature not a single hamlet is passed, and only here and there a village is seen afar off on the mountains. There only stand solitary abandoned houses on the sea shore, at such points as possess a small seaport, a cala or landing-place, such as Porto Favone, the place to which the old Roman road led, Fautea, Cala di Tarco, Cala di Canelie, c.@.@. Here also stand Genoese watch-towers. All these houses were abandoned, and their windows and doors shut for the air is bad along the whole coast.@.@. It is a strada morta.-Gregorovius, p. 459.  of the coast of Corsica is atoned for by such banks and dells, full of blazing colour, and crowded with warbling birds, besides an occasional hoopoe, or bee-eater. Nowhere do I remember to have seen such slopes of splendid tints, so complete and lively a clothing of flowers. At 9 the Tarco is crossed by a three-arched bridge, and, beyond that, the loftier summits of the southern portion of the great snowy mountains, or central chain, begin to be seen.40 All at once 9.30 a pretty little bay-the Porto Favone-opens, and is irresistible to the landscape painter, who halts to draw it. The compact Cala or Marina is a perfect picture, its background the mountain range near the Incudine, towering high above the velvet maquis@ -covered hills, and clear as glass its foreground a few small houses edging the white sandy shore, drawn up on which are two or three boats, and beyond them a river and its bridge. A dozen or so of goats, and one or two raging dogs, are all the life vouchsafed to this spot, besides an ancient and crusty Corsican, who proclaims from an upper window to the inquiring Peter, that these dwellings contain no barley or horse food of any sort. Peter the coachman has been given of late to disagreeable ways almost mute for the first days of this tour, he has latterly taken to swear at his horses with a frightful volubility and a selection of oaths which denote, if nothing else, an inventive imagination of great power this habit, and that of beating the animals on their heads, I object to and rebuke, and for the time the evil is stopped. After passing along more cornice road and wild gardens, it is 11.30 before Solenzaro appears ahead on the coast, and we reach it at noon, the last part of the way being along hill-sides covered with vineyards it is a village consisting of one long straggling street, with some outlying, large, tall-chimneyed buildings, a French metallurgic establishment, and a good many more extensive dwellings or warehouses, and on the whole presenting a more general appearance of life than Corsican villages are wont to display. I am directed to a poor little house as the best hotel, kept, according to what seems frequent custom in Corsica, by yet another widow-la Vedova Orsola. But, although I may have the pleasure of inhabiting her house on my return here two days hence, it is not requisite to do so now, as I have prudently provided breakfast at Porto Vecchio, and there is nothing to be done at Solenzaro but to rest the horses and become acquainted with the distances and halting places of the onward road for I am anxious, if possible, to get  towers one is at the little port of Favone, looked down on by high mountains. These towers on the coasts of Corsica, some fifty in all, were built in the sixteenth century by the Genoese, at the request of the inhabitants, who, as subjects of the republic, were exposed to ravages from the barbarous nations with whom Genoa was at war. The garrison of each tower ordinarily consisted of three soldiers, a corporal, and a guardian or governor. At the approach of an enemy's boat, they lit a fire, which, seen and repeated by the guardians of all the neighbour-towers, alarmed the whole coast of the island, and allowed time to prepare for defence.-@Valery, i., p. 261.  and to see the site of Aleria, the ancient colony of Sylla, in this trip because, should I be prevented from going there till late in my stay in the island, the eastern plain is said to be then so rife with malaria that one risks fever by sleeping in it. If, therefore, I can manage to accomplish this now, I may return here and cross the forests of Bavella, according to M. Vico's itinerary, and so rejoin the road to Ajaccio at Sarténé. What information I require is soon gained from a party who are sitting at breakfast at the door of a house opposite, magnificently labelled, and with a prophetic boldness, Hotel de Chemin de Fer. All these persons very good-naturedly volunteer particulars about the road, especially one, Signor Poli, who says Migliacciara is sixteen kilomètres from this place, that it stands a little way off the main Bastia road upon that leading to the baths at Pie@trapola, and that I shall find a good inn there that Casabianda, the great Penitencier Agricole, is sixteen kilomètres farther beyond Migliacciara, and close to Aleria and that from Solenzaro-to which I must of necessity return -it is thirty kilomètres to the top of the Bavella pass, and the village of Zonza again is eighteen other kilomètres beyond it. Just then there comes up another continental, who says M. Vico, the Sous-inspecteur of Forests, has written to him to say I am on my way here this gentleman is M. Mathieu, the agent or head manager connected with part of the great Bavella forests, and he tells me that he is shortly about to go there himself, and that meantime he has directed the guardiano at the Casa Forestière to house and feed me, for you may get. some bread, he says, and possibly some potatoes. All this is very obliging, and it seems I can have but little trouble throughout on which I thank my informants, and leave them to their breakfast. Some spot at hand, combining two qualifications, is now to be sought-namely, first, quiet secondly, some scenery to draw during the mid-day halt-for in or near such wayside houses as there appear to be in this village, where noise and dirt are plentiful, it is by no means agreeable to eat if one can avoid doing so, and it is a great thing if a sketch can be combined with a two hours' stay at some picturesque resting-place. G., however, has already found a place, to which the Coliseum-sack is taken, where, on turning round the point of a low hill, just beyond the village, a beautiful picture is seen a little chapel, which stands, backed by a group of pines, on the banks of a wide stream, with the snow heights near the grand Monte Incudine above, and all the middle distance of the scene composed of those deep green maquis @@-clothed velvety hills, the delight of Corsican landscape. At this river side also nightingales abound in incredible numbers, and their exquisite music fills the air. The halt of this morning is thus in every way a pleasure, and no slight additional satisfaction is it to recall what one has seen in the earlier part of the day, which, after the cork woods and maquis had been left behind, was a wonder and a delight from hour to hour-a border of glorious flowers by the  still blue seaside. Now, all at once, the landscape has become noble and majestic, and I cannot help feeling, even after seeing so little as I yet have of this island, that it would be an endless field of study to a painter resident in it. Afterwards I draw upon the bridge above the river, whence the stream and its picturesque banks, with the lofty shadowy mountains, make a beautiful scene, till it is time to send back G. for Peter and the trap. Peter has applied again here for money for the horses but it seems that for every advance he gives them less barley and more beating, and it is dimly becoming a sort of fixed idea with me that Miss C. was right, and that I had better have hired her man and horses, even at a greater expense. CHAPEL NEAR SOLENZARO. At 4 P.M., once more onward along the high road, meeting, soon after starting, the Bastia diligence which is to reach Bonifacio to-morrow morning, and Ajaccio on the succeeding day at noon-a dreary penance of shut-up shaking I am thankful to have escaped. The high central mountains, as seen from this eastern side of Corsica, stand far away beyond a wide plain, and their bases are hidden by low hills yet, as a snowy range, they are truly a splendid sight and the change from the spiky promontories of the west coast, the ins and outs, and curves and corners of the sea wall, or the close vales of maquis shut out from all distance, to this broad landscape, is most marked and delightful. Give me the beauty and glory of open plains, with a distance of hill or sea ! Here they are both and yet the lines of this mountain wall are not  and rather require a morning light nor are the undulations of rich dwarf foliage, thus crested by snowy Alpine heights, without their difficulties. The wide level of unvaried rich green which stretches from the shore to the very foot of these heights is something the like of which I have never before seen, nor have I met with any representation of it. Nearly at 5 the river Travo41 is passed by a long and fine bridge, and looking up this broad and beautiful stream, the landscape is wonderfully fine, but time does not allow of stopping to draw it. At the fiftieth kilomètre from Porto Vecchio the plain is really unique in beauty, and more re@sembling some parts of Thessaly than any place I can compare it to, but that Thessaly wants the deep full green of the Corsican maquis clothing. A few roadside houses grouped together near the river Travo are all the habitations seen on this extended campagna, till after passing another bridge Ponte Palo or Londano ? over the  beginning with the long narrow Stagno di Palo there are in succession the Stagno di Graduggini, the lagoon of Urbino, of Siglione, del Sale, and the fine one of Diana, which has retained its name from the Roman times. Sandbanks separate these fish-swarming lagoons from the sea, but most have an entrance. Their fish are celebrated eels, c. Far northwards from the Travo extends the most glorious pianura, which is the Fiumorbo or Canton Prunelli. Crossed by rivers, and bounded by the lagoons and the sea, it resembles, as seen from the distance, an endless luxuriant garden by the sea-shore. There is room here for at least two populous towns of 50,000 inhabitants, but there is hardly the scantiest arable land to be discovered, only boundless plains covered by ferns. Colonies of industrious cultivators and artisans would convert the whole district into a garden canals would destroy the morasses, and make the air healthy..... The climate is more sunny and milder than that of southern Tuscany it would bear even the sugar-cane, and corn would yield a hundredfold. The entire west of the island is a continuous formation of parallel valleys the mountain chains there descend into the sea, ending in capes, and encircling the magnificent gulfs. The east has not this prominent valley formation, and the land sinks down into levels. The west of Corsica is romantic, picturesque, and grand the east gentle, monotonous, melancholy. The eye here roves over plains many miles in extent, seeking for villages, men, and life, and discovers nothing but heaths, with wild shrubs, and morasses and lagoons extending along the sea, and filling the land with melancholy.-Gregorovius, p. 459.  a broad and clear river, we reached the road to Pietrapola at 6.30. Before this, the dark green verdure of the plain had given way to plains of asphodel and half cultivated tracts of ground, latterly to fields of corn, and as the sun goes down behind the long western mountain wall, Peter drives up to a single large dwelling by the roadside, and says, Ecco l'Hotel di Migliacciara. The hotel, indeed built originally, I imagine, by the French Agricultural Company mentioned by Valery , is in itself the whole of the village of Migli@acciara, excepting a large group of farm-like buildings on the opposite site of the road, the whole appearing what in the Roman campagna one would call a tenuta. And at this season and hour the position of this place seems delightful, when the scent of the hawthorn, the song of the nightingale, the voices of sheep and cattle, the greenness of the country round, and the grandeur of the mountain range, but a short distance away, all seem to fill it with rural charms-it is hard to believe that in a month or two hence the whole district becomes pestilential. The interior of the so-called hotel, is unlike any I have yet seen in Corsica the large building has rambling corridors and chambers, like those in many a wayside inn in the Neapolitan states of old days, or those of anti-Italian-Rome of these, and I was surprised as well as glad to secure a lofty and quiet apartment. Presently the Bastia diligence arrived supper or dinner was suddenly announced, and the company-to wit, the conductor and one passenger, myself and servant-sat down to a meal, of which it may be said that better as well as worse might be essayed. The conductor, who is a continental, and was a soldier in the Crimea, speaks highly of the baths of Pietrapola not far from here, and says that rheumatic complaints are completely removed by the use of their waters. He himself, he adds, after the Russian war, had rheumatic fever to a degree that lost him the use of both his arms, until, through the means of the Pietrapola hot baths, he was restored to health. It would be pleasant to see these baths of Pietrapola they are in a neigh@bouring valley and perhaps after Aleria has been visited, time may yet allow of my reaching them.4 leagues, in the best soil of Fiumorbo, or even of all Corsica, which stretches from the shore to the mountains, and through which passed the old way, belonged formerly to the Fieschi family of Genoa.-@Valery, i., p. 266. 43 The Baths of Pietrapola, in a rural nook in the midst of high mountains, have but few houses at present they are like a camp for invalids, who run to and from their tents in nightcaps, bare-legged, and wrapped up in cloaks or blankets. The mineral waters of Corsica are not like many of those on the Continent, slow and uncertain in their effects their season is very short, but their effect is speedy. One might say that their waters partake of the decided and powerful character of the in@habitants. The heat of the baths of Pietrapola equals that of the waters of Tunis, and is forty-six degrees at the source. Their efficacy has been recognised by medical men, both Italian and French, who have analysed them, and from the sixteenth century they have been resorted to for maladies of the nerves, head, and ears in our day they are regarded as most useful in chronic complaints, paralysis, rheumatism, and cutaneous diseases.-@Valery, i., p. 269. @p@@.  for Aleria-Pass the Fiumorbo River-Beauty of Wide Plains at early Morning-Hamlet of Ghisonaccio-Cultivation of the Plain round the Site of Aleria-The Penitencier of Casabianda-M. Benielli-Position of ancient Aleria its magnificent Prospect-The Tavignano and distant Mountain Range-Hospitable Reception at Casabianda-Walk towards the Baths of Pietrapola, and Return to Migliacciara-The Bastia Diligence and Supper-Leave Migliacciara-The River Travo-Beautiful Effects of Light and Shade on the Plains of Fiumorbo-Return to Solenzaro-Widow Orsola's Hotel-Leave Solenzaro for the Mountains-Grand Scenery of the Pass to the Forests of Bavella-Steep Ascent-Immense Hewn Pine Trunks-Rocca Pinsuta-Peter the Coachman-Reach the Bocca di Larone-Magnificent Amphitheatre of Crags and Forest-Descent to the Forest of Bavella-Thunderstorm and Rain-Difficulty of Ascent to the Maison dell' Alza-Peter the Passionate-Pleasant Reception by M. Mathieu-A Day in Bavella-Glories of the Forest-Leave the Maison dell' Alza-Splendour of the Great Pine Woods and Crags-Descent from Bavella to the Village of Zonza-Pass through San Gavino and Levie-Arrive at Santa Lucia di Tallano-Hotel, and Visit from Don G. Giacomone-Dr. Bennet, of Mentône-Churches and Convents of Santa Lucia di Tallano-Hospitable Breakfast at Don G. Giacomone's-@His Family and House-@Wines of Tallano-Leave Santa Lucia, and descend to the Valley of the Tavaria-Return to Sarténé-Peter's Homily upon Patience-Fatima's Polished Floors-Her Confidences and Misfortunes-View of Sarténé from above the Town-Return by Propriano to Olmeto-Visit to Mr. B.-Walk to Casalabriva-Meet Miss C.-Scenery of the Taravo-Cippo the Goat-Return to Grosseto. April 26.-At 5.30 A.M. I start for Aleria the more delay in going there, the greater risk of fever so once more I am on the Bastia road. How like is this to the' old days of Roman campagna life, its early hours, the fresh air, and the outspread plain and distant mountains ! To me this is the most delightful of Corsican scenery perhaps, indeed, partly from old associations and none the less so that it is unexpectedly beautiful. The river Fiumorbo,44 which gives its name to the canton, is soon passed, and at 6 Ghisonaccio is reached-a sprinkling of tall houses by the road-side, many of them unfinished, all ugly and forlorn to look at-children abound, mingled with pigs, and men sit in idleness on the walls and door-steps. Nor does any one take notice of  which, shut in by mountains, rolls on as if by chance, till its uncertain course ends in the sea, and thus it has been poetically named the blind river. This part of Corsica, so wild in appearance, was formerly not less so as to the manners of its peasantry, who were proverbial for the grossness of their habits, their superstitions, their independence, and their obstinate opposition to all improvement. The following was related to me as the speech of a cure of Poggio di Nazza, on his first arrival at the parish church. I know, said he, to the peasants, that you are bad Christians, and that you care little for your priests but I have brought with me what may be strong arguments in favour of the three persons you ought to believe in. This said he, placing his gun against the wall is my Padre Santo this laying his pistol on the altar is the Figlio and, if these are not enough, this drawing a dagger is the Spirito Santo. This novel illustration of the Trinity was so convincing to his parishioners, that they lived always on the best terms with their cure. But this was in past times, and for twenty years the Fiumorbo has been completely civilised.-@Valery, i., p. 271. Near the bridge is Ghisonaccie, peopled by inhabitants of Ghisoni a large village in the mountains , who, being compelled to gather their harvests in this part, have built houses, that have gradually grown into a village, recently made a commune.@-@Galletti, p. 172.  passers-by, except one man, who, holding a live hare, says, Achetez, M'sieu ? Ghisonaccio is not a prepossessing place. Just beyond it, on the left of the road, is a tomb of classical shape, in memory of an overseer of road@works, murdered here some years back. On the right the plain is lost in marsh and great étangs or salt pools, while towards the snowy mountains it seems one immense green carpet of fern and lentisk up to their very base, varied only in a few places by lines of purple or almost of black, marking the place where the maquis has been burned. And as clouds are rising, I fear to lose my mountain outline, and devote some time to a drawing of these wild fern plains and green levels. Peter the coachman about this time, I being on foot, and he somewhat ahead, gets himself into disgrace, by reason of beating one of his horses unmercifully when it stumbled, I and my man being unable to prevent him, far less to moderate the astonishing current of oaths with which, in these paroxysms of fury, he accompanies his blows. But on overtaking him, I tell him that patience may have an end, and that if he persists in disorderly behaviour, I will telegraph to Ajaccio for a new coach@man, and leave him here. Whereon he says, Una cosa certa e che l'uomo deve sempre aver pazienza quest' e una delle prime regole della vita. -one thing is certain, that a man should always be patient and this, indeed, is one of the first rules of life ! The plain becomes much more undulating as Casabianda is approached, it stands on high ground, not far from the site of ancient Aleria@-@both places overlooking the Tavignano and the whole eastern plain, and consists in a group of large new buildings, not over picturesque, notwithstanding that at a distance it has something of the air of Castel Guibilei, or similar places on the Roman campagna. In the vicinity of this important estab@lishment, fern, myrtle, and cystus disappear, and give way to corn, lupines, and other vegetables more useful if not so poetical labour takes the place of neglect and, instead of a green desert, there is flourishing cultivation. Carts and cattle are met, and groups of the convicts of which there are about a thousand in the Penitencier going out to work. A road strikes off on the right to the reclaimed ground, near the great marshes now under@going drainage, close to the sea, and to the left it is continued to the principal buildings of the establishment, which I reach at 9.45 Fortunately for me for, not having expected to come here when I left Ajaccio, I had had no note or recommendation from M. Galloni d'Istria , M. Benielli, the young clerk who, at Bonifacio, had volunteered to show me the @lions of Aleria,  and one of the most fertile in the world, might produce food for more than 100,000 inhabitants. Its soft climate, where winter is unknown, would permit even tropical plants to be cultivated. @This superb plain along the sea-shore is bordered with high mountains, and varied by light undulations which preserve it from the dull uniformity of many plains. On seeing it, its characteristics impress you at once as those peculiar to the site of an ancient and powerful city.-@Valery, p. 278.  ruins of Aleria, happened to be at that moment at the entrance of the open space before the prisons, otherwise I could have made but little progress, owing to the sentinels and gendarmes, who naturally are on all sides in a place devoted to convict labour. M. Benielli greeted me heartily, and offered, conjointly with several other young employes, to show me all over Aleria. I was to see the new drainage, the prisons, the remains-here of a wall, there of an amphitheatre in a word, nothing was to be left unseen. My object, however, being to procure one or two good views of the place, and to avoid giving up much time to what was not of immediate interest to my topographical work, I had little inclination to take long walks in the heat of the day and, moreover, I had already discerned the point from which the plain of the Tavignano must be best represented. It requires all a man's available tact and politeness to intimate to fourteen or fifteen amiable individuals, without giving them offence, that you do not want their company, and would far rather be alone but it is necessary for me to choose on the one hand between companionship and time lost, and the chance of making a good drawing on the other. Let us alone time driveth onward fast, And in a little while our lips are dumb, and our hands useless so I beg my new acquaintances to allow me to go my own way, to which they most good-naturedly assent, being only hospitably obstinate on the point of my returning to breakfast with them at 11. Then, having accepted the offer of an obliging M. Liberati who was on the point of going to the fort and village of Aleria to show me a short cut across some fields towards the site of the old city, I set off, not without fear that the clouds, which are rapidly covering the snowy range, may prevent my getting their   Corsica,  consist in portions of a praetorial building-a sort of circus-some traces of the walls, c. The salt lake of Diana, blocked up by sand, appears to have served as a port to Aleria, as indeed the large iron rings fixed on its edge still indicate. In our day it is noted for its oysters, of extraordinary size and exquisite flavour. So late as the end of the thirteenth century, Aleria was not entirely destroyed, for the bishop of the see resided there, as well as the family of Catinco, one of the most powerful of the island.-@Valery, i., p. 277. The city of Aleria was built on an elevation, which on the north side rises to a height of over fifty metres above the level of the ground, and which slopes gradually towards the east. To the south-west it presents an undulating surface, and displays to the traveller who stands among its ruins one of the most imposing and magnificent panoramas. The beautiful prospect includes an immense and fertile, but little cultivated plain a large and deep river whose crystal waters rise in the high mountains of Niolo, and winding below the site of Aleria, fall into the sea exactly opposite the mouth of the Tiber a great expanse of blue sea, that on its further side breaks on the shores of the Roman campagna, and against the great ruins of the cities of Ostia, Porto, and Nettuno, which seem to send back to these silent plains of Aleria the echo of their decay.-Galletti, p. 174. The port of Aleria was formed by an arm of the sea, which in our day comes up to half a league from its ruins. Near the mouth of this port is a charmingly picturesque islet, several metres high above the level of the water, and in various parts of it are the remains of a wall which served as a quay. Fur@ther on, at the spot called Santa Agata, are ruins of a wall, in which portions of iron are fixed, and jars  was at Aleria that Theodore, afterwards king of Corsica, first landed-a character so remarkable, that I subjoin some account of his most romantic life, extracted from Boswell and Gregorovius, in both of whose writings will be found much interesting information on the subject, one intimately con@nected with the history of Corsicans during their rebellion against Genoa in the early part of the last century.47 Several pieces of Roman brickwork, clearly denoting the antiquity of the spot, are scattered about the bluff or headland to which I went, and which may have been an outpost or fort of the old Roman colony, or even the citadel of Sylla's city, the site of which is evidently well chosen, and commanding a very glorious view on all sides-northward, along the flat plain which melts into the horizon near Cervione westward, towards Monte Rotondo, the gorge of the Tavignano, and the course of that river to the foot of the Alerian hills eastward, over the plain, and the broad marshes, and salt lakes, or étangs, to the sea and, southward, to the whole chain of snowy heights, from Mont Renoso to Mont Incudine, with its remarkable outline, and the hills which at Solenzaro close the view in that direction. The long line of white snow against the blue sky is not unlike that of the Alps as seen from Turin and, while I remained on this eminence, I wished to make another drawing, combining the buildings of Casabianda with the mountain wall beyond the plain but clouds gradually blot out all their forms, and finally oblige me to give up the attempt. While I am drawing, G. brings me two specimens of the Mygale, or trap-spider, so common in Corfù, called there the  apparently abundant hereabouts. iwaters of Diana which produce excellent oysters occupy a space of 570 metres, and their depth is tenor eleven. With small expense, the lagoon of Diana might be made one of the finest ports, as well as one of the safest in the Mediterranean.-Galletti, p. 15. Aleria seems to have been an unlucky spot for many of its visitors poor M. Valery became suddenly blind there, and Gregorovius's experience, on reaching it, was far from agreeable for, in spite of sniffing at camphor, he ran great risk of illness from being unable to procure any shelter. This is his description of the vicinity of the fort of Aleria, to which at length he was admitted. The scenery around seemed to me truly Sullanic a night as still as the grave a barren plain full of feverish air at our feet dark, night-shrouded mountains behind the fort, and the horizon reddened as with the glow of burning towns, for the thickets were on fire all around. The poor soldiers went out with their dogs to the lagoon of Diana, to be on the watch for smugglers. Their service is a dangerous one they are changed every fifteen days, as they would otherwise succumb to the fever.@.@. I lay down on the floor of the room, and tried to sleep, but the sultriness was dreadful.@.@. It was a diabolical night, and I sighed more than once, ' Aleria ! Aleria ! chi non amazza vituperia ! ' the lampoon current in Corsica, 'Aleria, whom thou killlest not abuses thee.' -Gregorovius, p. 463. 47 J. Baron Newhoff, in the county of La Marc, in Westphalia, was the personage who aspired to the sovereignty of Corsica. He had his education in the French service. He afterwards went to Spain, where he received some marks of regard from the Duke of Riperda, and Cardinal Alberoni. But being of a strange, unsettled, projecting disposition, he quitted Spain, and went and travelled into Italy, England, and Holland, ever in search of some new adventure. He at last fixed his attention on Corsica, and formed a scheme of making himself a king. He was a man of considerable abilities and address and after having fully informed himself of everything relating to the island, he went to Tunis, where he fell upon means to procure some money and arms and then came to Leghorn, from whence he wrote a letter to the Corsican chiefs,l 11, return to Casabianda, where M. Benielli meets me, and a good breakfast is most welcome after the morning's work, for even now the heat is great in these exposed plains. Whatever may be the privations of modern, compared with those of ancient, Aleria, the want of a good table is certainly not one, as sea-fish of several sorts, fresh river trout, wild-boar steaks and stew, hare and partridge, amply testified though the foreign visitor, however willing and able to appreciate such variety, could hardly help putting the friendly and simple hospitality of his French acquaintance as the highest item in the bill of fare. It seems that wild boars are very numerous here in the low underwood about the marshy districts near the sea, and the pursuit of them is a favourite amusement. M. Benielli tells me that from here to Corte is a ride only of six hours, and that on the way they pass Ghisoni, and near that place he says there is a gorge or chasm in the hills, called the Inseca, which he strongly urges me to see, as well as the forest of Marmano in that neighbour@hood, where there exists a summer station for the Penitencier establishment. But how can I see all Corsica in ten weeks ? At noon I took leave of my kindly entertainers, who, besides all the morning's attentions, pressed me warmly to stay with them two or three days. Alas for the tops of the mountains ! they are invisible nevertheless, the one great peculiarity of this plain is ever before me namely, that it spreads darkly green to the very roots of the hill-range rising directly out of it-a single pale blue wall, silver tipped. Meanwhile the day is hot, and progress slow, which is no evil at all, compared with my hard task in preventing Peter from beating his horses, and from swearing after a fashion which becomes unendurable when you must needs sit still and hear it.  nation if they would elect him as their sovereign. This letter was addressed to Count Domenico Rivarola, who acted as Corsican plenipo@tentiary in Tuscany, and he gave for answer, that if Theodore brought the assistance he promised to the Corsicans, they would very willingly make him their king. Upon this, without loss of time, he set sail, and landed in the spring of 1736. He was a man of very stately appearance, and the Turkish dress which he wore added to the dignity of his mien. He had a few attendants with him. His manners were so engaging, and his offers so plausible, that he was proclaimed king of Corsica before Count Rivarola's despatches arrived to inform the chiefs of the terms upon which he had agreed. He brought with him about 1,000 zechins of Tunis, besides some arms and ammunition, and made magnificent promises of foreign assistance, so that the Corsicans, who were glad of any support, willingly gave in to his schemes. Theodore assumed every mark of royal dignity. He had his guards and his officers of state. He conferred titles of honour, and he struck money, both of silver and copper. The silver pieces were few in number, and can now hardly be met with. I have one of his copper coins on one side of it is T. R. Theodorus Rex , King Theodore, with a double branch crossed, and round it this inscription, Pro bono publico Re. Co. Regni Corsicae , For the public good of the Kingdom of Corsica. On the other side is the value of the piece, cinque soldi, five sous. There was such a curiosity over all Europe to have King Theodore's coins, that his silver pieces were sold at four zechins each and when the genuine ones were exhausted, imitations of them were made at Naples, and, like the imita@tions of antiques, were bought up at a high price, and carefully preserved in the cabinets of the virtuosi. Theodore immediately blocked up the Genoese fortified towns and he used to be sometimes at one siege, sometimes at another, standing with a telescope in his hand, as if he spied the assistance which he said he expected. He used also the artifice of making large packets be continually brought to him from the continent, which he gave out to be from the different sovereigns of Europe, acknowledging his authority, and promising to befriend him. The Genoese were not a little confounded with this unexpected adventurer.  Even in a carriage drive to see all Corsica, there is still room for some variety, and such may be counted the frequent walking of red-legged partridges across the road, and the sitting of bee-eaters on the telegraph wires. If possible, I shall revisit Casabianda on my way to Bastia, for not only is the spot historically interesting in more than one way, but the scenery of the east side of Corsica can be illustrated from it more advantageously than from any other point perhaps on a second visit the distance may be less clouded, and if I cannot return, it will at least be something to have seen this side of the island, which is less easy to become acquainted with than the western. The untidy Ghisonaccio is repassed, and the bridge over the Fiumorbo river, at 2.15 P.M. and at 4 the road to Pietrapola is reached, when I send on Peter to the inn, and take a short cut across the fields towards the entrance of the gorge in the hills, at the head of which are the village and the baths of Pietrapola, which perhaps there may yet be time to reach. In this walk, low down by the river Vabolesco, all is delightful, and strongly contrasted with the hot unsheltered Aleria great chesnut trees, here nearly in leaf, stand on grassy levels, or among fern four or five feet in height all along the pleasant valley the hawthorn blooms, the blackbird and nightingale sing, and  Theodore, treating him with great contempt, but at the same time showing that they were alarmed at his appearance. Theodore replied in a manifesto with all the calmness and dignity of a monarch, expressed his indifference as to the injurious treatment of the republic, and appeared firm in the hopes of victory..... After having been about eight months in Corsica, Theodore perceived that the people began to cool in their affections towards him, and did not act with the same resolution as before. He therefore wisely determined to leave them for a little, and try his fortune again upon the continent. So, after having laid down a plan of administration to be observed in his absence, he quitted the island in the month of November. He went to Holland, and there he was successful enough to get credit to a great extent from several rich merchants, particularly Jews, who trusted him with cannon and other warlike stores to a great value, under the charge of a supercargo. With these he returned to Corsica, in 1739, and on his arrival he put to death the supercargo, that he might not have any trouble from demands being made upon him. By this time the French had become so powerful in the island, that, although Theodore threw in his supply of warlike stores, he did not incline to venture his person, the Genoese having set a high price upon his head. He therefore chose to relinquish his throne, and give up his views of ambition for safety, c., c.@.@.@. The Corsicans now talk differently of King Theodore. Some of them, who had most faith in his fine speeches, still extol him to the skies, to support their own judgment others, who looked upon him as an impostor, and never joined heartily in his measures, represent him as a kind of Wat Tyler-a king of a rabble but the most knowing and judicious, and the General Paoli himself, consider him in the moderate light in which he has now been represented, and own that he was of great service in reviving the spirit of the nation, which after a good many years of constant war, was beginning to droop, but which Theodore restored, while he rekindled the sacred fire of liberty. They, indeed, are sensible that his wretched fate has thrown a sort of ridicule on the nation, since their king was confined in a jail at London, which was actually the case of poor Theodore who, after experiencing the most extraordinary vicissitudes of fortune, chose to end his days in our island of liberty but was reduced to the wretched state of a prisoner for debt. Mr. Horace Walpole generously exerted himself for Theodore. He wrote a paper in the World, with great elegance and humour, soliciting a contribution for the monarch in distress, to be paid to Mr. Robert Dodsley, bookseller, as lord high treasurer. This brought him a very handsome sum. He was allowed to get out of prison. Mr. Wal@pole has the original deed by which Theodore made over the kingdom of Corsica in security to his creditors. He has also the great seal of his kingdom..... He died very soon after he got out of prison, and was buried in St. Anne's churchyard, Westminster.-Boswell, pp. 106, 107. The shore occupied by Marius and Scylla was later the burlesque theatre of two  paths lead on by the side of the clear running stream, between clumps of lentisk and cool verdure. Rejoining the road-a route forestière-which leads to the baths, it enters the pass of Pietrapola, a winding woody valley scene almost exactly like one in Derbyshire or Devonshire. The road runs at a considerable height above the beautifully clear rivulet that foams and dashes over rocks and white boulders, and only the presence of large ilex instead of ash or oak forbids an Englishman to suppose he is in his own country. But there is not time to pursue this leafy valley very far, for it is 5.30 P.M., and I turn back towards Migliacciara without having reached the baths, though the walk even so far up the picturesque and narrowing vale in the enjoyable quiet of this cool evening has its agreeable memories. On the way back to Migliacciara by the upper road, glimpses of the plain are caught now and then from pleasant lanes, where the hedges are alive with bird-melody. There are a few fine cattle not an ordinary sight in Corsica here and there, some scattered cottages, all with an accom@paniment of pigs, which seem more common on this than on the other side of the island, and now and then a few peasants are met, on their return home to their villages, black and brown garmented as usual, their horses carrying  Neuhoff-called king Theodore-crowned adventurer, friend of Law, lover of pomp and luxury, able speaker, libertine, shut up for debt in Holland, dying at length in a garret in London, and figuring in the Supper of Six Kings of Candide at Venice, the Libretto of Casti, and the music of Paisiello.@-@Valery, i., p. 278. It was at Aleria that Theodore of Neuhoff landed on the 12th of March, 1736, says Grego@rovius, at the commencement of a very interesting chapter on the subject, and quoting from an unpublished Genoese manuscript of the year 1739, Accinelli's Historical, Geographical, and Political Memorabilia of the Kingdom of Corsica, embellished by the motto in no wise complimentary to the people of the island, a perverse and erring people, beasts, and all brutes. This MS. contains a portrait of King Theodore, in Moorish costume, c. and a second representation of him is given in an old German book, printed in Frankfort, @1736, published by Giovanni di San Forenzo. Theodore's appearance in Corsica, and his romantic election to be king of the island, then engaged the attention of all the world, and the account of his landing is given in this book on the authority of letters from Bastia. April 5.-At the port of Aleria arrived lately an English ship said to belong to the consul of that nation at Tunis, and in this a very exalted personage, c..... His costume is after the manner of the Christians who travel in Turkey, and consists of a long scarlet-lined coat, a perruque and hat, as well as a stick and sword. He has a suite of two officers, a secretary, a priest, a lord-steward, a steward, a head cook, three slaves, and six lacqueys with him also, he has disembarked ten cannon, above 7,000 muskets, 2,000 pairs of shoes, and a great lot of all kinds of stores, among which are 7,000 sacks of flour, likewise several chests of gold and silver specie, one of which is a strong lead-cornered one with silver handles, full of whole and half sequins from Barbary, and the treasure is reckoned at two millions of pieces of eight. The Corsican leaders have received him with great demonstrations of reverence, and conferred upon him the title of Your Excellency, and of Viceroy whereupon he then appointed four of the Corsican colonels, with a monthly salary of a hundred pieces of eight he next created twenty companies, and caused a gun, a pair of shoes, and a sequin, to be given to each common soldier but a captain receives henceforth eleven pieces of eight every month, c... He has taken up his residence at the episcopal palace at Campo Loro, before which house 400 men with two cannon keep guard ... he is going to repair to Casinca,@.@.@. and he awaits more large ships of war which are to arrive about the 15th of this month, to assail the Genoese with all his force by land and sea.@.@. We are assured that he has been deputed by some Catholic European potentates, who will second his enterprise in every way wherefore the Genoese are thrown into the extreme of alarm, and regard their cause in the island as good as lost. Some more recent accounts add that the above-mentioned foreigner is appointing his court with greater and greater  double. But the event of the evening lay in meeting an equestrian party, two of whom, good-looking damsels, were running a race, and others with their male friends all following in a body and encouraging the bold and fair, the like of which departure from the gravities I had not before seen in this island. Near the Migliacciara farm are immense flocks of black sheep, soon, I am told, to leave the plains for the upper mountain pastures. The Bastia Diligence had just arrived at the hotel, and as it was pretty full, the party at supper were numerous the repast, more remarkable for the rapidity with which it was consumed than for the quality of the food, was chiefly distinguished by the large supplies of capital asparagus, and for a pyramid of oysters from the étang, or salt-water lake, at Aleria these are of immense size, but, to my taste, wanting in delicacy. The Diligence company included some who were very amusing the conductor, who constantly reminded his charge that time was precious, and urged fast eating a young and merry priest, a continental, who joked and smoked two naturalists, one a lively youth from Dresden, the other an elderly Austrian savant, who had met by chance at Bastia on their way to collect entomological novelties at Porto Vecchio and three or four others. In these round-table meetings there is a good deal of hurry and noise the Migliacciara Hebe-she is like an Arab girl, with her head so muffled up as to allow as little as possible of her very brown face to be seen-sets the various dishes, or rather throws them, with great vigour and audacity at no particular point on the table, and snatches up the plates, with clashing and no small tumult, from those who have accomplished the disappearance of a portion of food everybody helps every@body else to wine, and himself to food and conversation becomes general and loud. To-night it happens to be full of amusement, till M. le conducteur, having@ and has appointed one named Hyacinthus Paoli to be his treasurer, c., c. Theodore von Neuhoff was born at Altena, a small town in Westphalia. His father was a captain of the body-guard of the Bishop of Minister.@.@. When he was ten years old he was entered at the Jesuits' College at Miinster. He killed a rival for some lady's love in a duel. All that transpired of the life of Theodore before he came to Corsica, displays him to us as one of the most prominent and successful of the series of adventurers of the eighteenth century. It is related that he became a page to the cele@brated Duchess of Orleans, and was educated into a finished and dexterous courtier. His Protean nature drew him into the most contradictory careers. In Paris, the Marquis de Courçillon procured an officer's commission for him. He became a desperate gambler then he fled to Sweden, to save himself from his creditors, to Baron von Görst, and by turns formed connections with the adventurous and intriguing ministers of that age, with Ripperda, Alberoni, and lastly with Law, who all more or less transferred to political life the character of soldiers of fortune. Theodore became an intimate of Alberoni's, and gained such influence in Spain that he amassed a considerable fortune. After Alberoni's fall, he clove to Ripperda, and married a maid of honour to the Queen of Spain-a Spanish lady of English or Irish descent, a relation of the Duke of Ormond. She appears not to have been a paragon of beauty. Theodore abandoned her not without taking possession of her jewels, and other treasures. He went to Paris, where he was connected with the schemes of Law and, moving about through all countries of the world, tried everything in turn, in England and particularly in Holland, where he set speculations on foot, gambled, and made debts. Theodore came to Genoa, formed connections with the  times vainly essayed to move the party, rises, and saying with authority, Messieurs ! soyez raisonnables ! Il faut que vous partiez, breaks up the sitting. April 27@-Off at 6 from the wide-meadowed and rural Migliacciara-a place that calls up many a memory of farms on the Campagna di Roma-and along the Bastia and Bonifacio road back to Solenzaro this is my only plan, for there is no possibility of getting to Bavella in one day from here, and, more@over, the weather is cloudy and threatens rain, ill prospect for high mountain passes. And now the whole beautiful line of snowy heights, so great a compensation for the long straight high road, is altogether invisible, and the drive has but slender charms soon even the rarely occurring houses, the lazy people and the pigs, the fields of asphodel and carpet of fern, are all shut out by hard rain for a couple of hours. At 8 the weather clears as I reach the bridge over the Travo and since the chief necessity of this day consists in keeping clear of the village inn at Solenzaro as long as possible, I determine to make what studies I can about the river, and anyhow to stay out of doors till near sunset. G., besides breakfast and folio, has a plentiful supply of cloaks, so come rain or sunshine, Peter is sent on, and the horses, who may perhaps have a hard day's work at Bavella to-morrow, will have a long rest to-day. Drawing thrives ill, for the day is sunless and heavy, yet I venture by snatches to secure the nearer parts of this beautiful river scene and when rain falls, sitting below a thick myrtle and lentisk grove and writing up journal notes ekes out the hours. Days of Cumberland and of Devonshire Lydford seem to return as I sit by the clear and noisy river. At intervals the snowy heights appear, and then again are hidden in the most tantalising fashion,  up the idea of becoming King of Corsica, and went to Tunis. In Barbary he was taken prisoner, wherefore he subsequently included a chain on his royal coat of arms. From Corsica he wrote to his Westphalian cousin, M. de Drost the letter, which, with other information, is in the Genoese MSS. of Accinelli, is printed as authentic in the third volume of Cambiaggi , announcing his election April 15, 1736 to the sovereignty of Corsica, and other par@ticulars of his life. No sooner had the election of Theodore become known than the doge, governors, and procurators of the republic of Genoa, published a manifesto, describing the new king very odiously. It com@mences, On the receipt of the news that at the port of Aleria, in our kingdom of Corsica, the English Captain Dick's small merchant ship has landed stores of war, and a certain person, who has unaccount@ably succeeded in rendering himself popular, c. .@. and goes on to exhibit his past life and character in the blackest colours, dwelling, among other matters, on his continual change of name, Baron von Naxaer, von Snichner, von Nissen, von Smithberg of his perpetual change of residence, of his frauds on all sorts of people, his desertion of his wife, c., c., and concludes by threatening all who followed the said Baron of Neuhoff with penalties, c. May 9, 1736 . Theodore then published as answer a counter-manifesto to the Genoese decree, given in the camp before Bastia, July 10, 1736, a letter of the most haughty and violent nature, and which must have enraged the republic beyond all limits of patience. The new King set up his court at Cervione he founded orders, coined money, c., c. After a vain attempt to regain his crown in 1739, he retired to England. He left behind him ag in the day, so that, in the end, I can procure their outline correctly. See Plate 11. One human being only is seen through all the morning, to wit, a half frightened little boy, to whom I give the empty wine-bottle after breakfast but he supposes I want it filled with water, and although on his return to the place where I was sitting he finds me no longer there, I meet him, seeking for me everywhere, a full hour afterwards, and still carrying the full water bottle-a degree of patient virtue meriting all that remains of the unfinished breakfast. The rest of the day's work consists in slowly walking to Solenzaro, getting one or two memoranda of the positive black-purple line of burnt maquis all across the plain, and watching the vast crags of the Incudine range gradually glooming out through mist and thunder-cloud as I reach the village at 7 P.M. A very queer little hotel indeed seems this of the Widow Orsola from its ground floor a ladder leads to an upper set of apartments, including three small rooms, all occupied, besides an open platform landing or common pas@sage, the only place in Solenzaro where a night's rest can be got.  for one night -says the Suliot, as he puts up my camp-bed in a corner, gets the room swept, and gradually contrives to change the confusion of the place into something like order. I decline the offer of one of the French employes, who good-naturedly begs to vacate his own room for me and finally two tables are introduced, one to serve for supper, the other for my  on a wild island, with a crown on his head, and a sceptre in his hand, surrounded by marquises, earls, barons, knights, chancellors, and keepers of the great seal. He now sat beggared and sad in a London debtor's prison, into which he had been cast by his creditors. He died in the year 1756. Walpole opened a subscription for the benefit of the poor Corsican king, and delivered him from imprisonment, in gratitude for which Theodore made him a present of the great seal of his kingdom. He was buried in the cemetery of Westminster.-Gregorovius, pp. 466-483. Gregorovius appends this note - He was buried in an obscure corner among the paupers in the churchyard of St. Anne's, Soho. Athenaeum, No. 1427, March, 1855. We find a neat mural tablet fixed against the exterior wall of the Church of St. Anne's, Soho, at the west end, on which, surmounted by a coronet, is inscribed the following epitaph, written by H. Walpole - Near this place is interred Theodore, King of Corsica, Who died in this parish, Dec. II, 1756, Immediately after leaving the King's Bench prison, By the benefit of the Act of Insolvency In consequence of which, He registered his kingdom of Corsica For the use of his creditors. The grave, great teacher, to a level brings, Heroes and beggars, galley slaves and kings But Theodore this moral learned ere dead Fate poured his lesson on his living head Bestowed a kingdom, and denied him bread.  to sleep on, and the evening meal is set forth in such space as has been cleared of boxes, barrels, and sacks. The dinner, with a curious inconsistency that I am now beginning to recog@nise as a regular part of Corsican travel, is quite a contrast to the rude discom@fort of the room-good scup and boiled meat, trout which might do credit to a table at Ambleside, capital roast mutton and salad, with the red Tallano wine, famous in these parts. Moreover, the quiet and obliging ways of the Corsi@cans who administer these rustic roadside inns is beyond praise, and after two weeks' sojourn in the island, I am coming to think that a more unpretendingly civil and attentive set of people to a stranger who brings them very little profit, can hardly be found. Meanwhile, in the opposite room beyond the ladder-entrance, various people employed in the metal or wood interests are supping, among them the young Dresden naturalist, who had broken down in the long Diligence journey, and is going on to Porto Vecchio by slow instalments. Later, I converse with some of the continentals, and learn the details of what I hope is to be my to-morrow's journey to the Bavella forest. The Maison de l'Alza or Maison Forestiere , the principal forest lodge, is, says M. Mathieu, twenty-three kilo@mètres from Solenzaro, and thence it is five or six more up to the Bocca di Bavella, or head of the pass, beyond which there are twelve or fourteen more kilomètres to Zonza. Provisions must be taken for the whole route, as none are likely to be found on it. Some to whom I speak, say boldly that they think there is no chance of my trap, owing to its weight and the smallness of its horses, ever arriving even at the top of the first pass, for there are two others opine that the ascent may be accomplished with care, and as I and G. shall always walk, I do not doubt that I may get there. To-day, however, I shall only endeavour to reach the Maison de l'Alza, drawing as much as I can by the way. And it has rained so hard in the mountains all day that a clear morrow may, I think, be hoped for. April 28.-At 5 A.M. the weather is cloudy, but yet giving sufficient promise of clearing to allow of a start on this cross-country expedition. The obliging Widow Orsola, besides recommending thin slices of toast with the morning cup of coffee, superintends the arrangements for carrying food for at least two days, in the shape of bread and cheese, a large piece of meat, twenty-five eggs, cold trout, and three bottles of wine, for all which, besides yesterday's lodging and supper, ten francs is the charge. We are off at six, and ascending immediately behind the little chapel I had drawn three days ago, turn out of the main road into the Route Forestiere, which, like that on the hills of Spedale, is broad and in good order, but without parapets. The views become finer at every turn in the steep ascent immense tracts of wood and maquis stretch away to the north before  rise the huge crags of the Bavella Pass, their summits hidden in mist, and far below rolls the river through underwood and among rocks, with pines growing close to the water's edge. See Plate 12. At 7.30 a stoppage occurs from meeting the first timber carts I have seen in these lands, loaded each with a single tree-trunk a hundred feet or upwards in length, and drawn by from ten to fifteen mules. From a distance, these cars seem like giant serpents or megalosauri slowly winding down the moun@tain, and it is as well to perceive their coming beforehand, so as to draw up by the inner side of the road for, although guided behind by two men with a sort of helm, they are dangerously unwieldy neighbours if encountered unexpectedly at any of the sharp turns of the road, the mules when going down hill being stopped with difficulty. About 8 a small white house of refuge in time of snow or storm is passed outside it is a forno, or oven for baking bread. A long string of mules comes down the mountain laden with wine from Tallano and, later, M. Mathieu, the agent or head forester, passes on horseback, and says that he shall be at the Maison de l'Alza to receive me-we are a long way off that yet, however. The pass here is very grand, and I obtain many a memorandum of it as the car@riage goes slowly up the hill. The pines are much larger than those lower down, and grow wildly among the detached masses of granite, among which the river foams and dashes. At 9.45, being at the eleventh kilomètre, half the way is accomplished, and hitherto I see no reason to despair of getting in good time to the desired halt, if only Peter can be induced to leave his horses alone while they toil up slowly and regularly, stopping from time to time, things go on well, but when he bursts into one of his vicious paroxysms, he beats them-if I or my man are not near enough to prevent him-till they back nearly to the edge of the precipice once or twice a very ugly sight. Meanwhile the pass becomes constantly finer and more interesting the immense crags in front-the hightest of this part of the lofty central range, and very close to the Mont Incudine-are wrapped in cloud, and are awfully mysterious, and somewhat resembling the great pillars of Gebel Serbal, in the peninsula of Sinai. The pines are exquisitely beautiful, and unlike any I have ever seen perfectly bare and straight to a great height, they seem to rise like giant needles from the deep blue gloom of the abyss below. Granite rocks of splendid forms are on every side, the spaces between them cushioned with fern, and the tall spires of the Pinus maritima shooting out from their sides and crevices. Springs by the road-side are frequent and welcome, for the way is exceedingly steep, and Giorgio has to work hard in pushing the carriage behind, which the poor little horses, willing, but ill-fed and ill-treated, find it difficult to pull up. 11 A.M.-At the fourteenth kilomètre, where there is another little  or refuge the spot is called Rocca Pinsuta, a wondrous scene of fine crags and pines , we halt for breakfast and to remain at least till I o'clock. May the heavy clouds now gathering and throwing a deeper gloom over the depths and tremendous heights around, not turn to violent storm and rain ! for there are still three kilo@mètres two miles to the bocca, or top of the pass two gendarmes, however, who come down the hill, say that the road ahead is less worn and not quite so steep as along the part we have come  G. to oversee Peter and the horses, I wander on alone with my note -@book and pencil. The colour here is more beautiful than in most mountain passes I have seen, owing to the great variety of underwood foliage and the thick cloth@ing of herbs forms, too, of granite rocks seem to me more individually interest@ing than those of other formations and the sin@gular grace and beauty of the pine-trees has a pe@culiar charm@-@their tall stems apparently so slen@der, and so delicate the proportions of the tuft of foliage crowning them. The whole of this profound gorge, at the very edge of which the road runs, is  mountain scenes of the utmost splendour, and would furnish pictures by the score to a painter who could remain for a lengthened sojourn. Sometimes ivory-white, needle-spiry pine stems, dead and leafless, break the dark yawning chasm of some black abyss far  a line as of a silver thread now a great space of gray mist in the distant hollow depth is crossed by lines of black burned stems anon the high trunk of a solitary tufted tree looks like a kind of giant flower on a tall stalk and ever above are delicate myriads of far pines pluming the craggy ledge, their stems drawn like fine hair against the  3 the top of the pass, or Bocca di Larone, is reached and here the real forest of Bavella commences, lying in a deep cup-like hollow between this and the opposite ridge, the north and south side of the valley being formed by the tremendous columns and peaks of granite or porphyry ? , the summits of which are seen above the hills from Sarténé, and which stand up like two gigantic portions of a vast amphitheatre, the whole centre of which is filled with a thick forest of pine. These crags, often as I have drawn their upper outline from the pass I have been ascending to-day, are doubly awful and magnificent now that one is close to them, and, excepting the heights of Serbal and Sinai, they exceed in grandeur anything of the kind I have ever seen, the more so that at present the distance is half hidden with dark cloud, heavily curtaining all this singular valley and the tops of the huge rock buttresses being hidden, they seem as if they connected heaven and earth. At times the mist is suddenly lifted like a veil, and discloses the whole forest-as it were in the pit of an immense theatre confined between towering rock-wall, and filling up with its thousands of pines all the great hollow for it is hardly to be called a valley in the ordinary sense of the term between those two screens of stupendous precipices. As I contemplate the glory of this astonishing amphitheatre, I decide to stay at least another day within its limits, and I confess that a journey to Corsica is worth any amount of expense and trouble, if but to look on this scene alone. At length I have seen that of which I have heard so much-a Corsican forest. See Plate 13. The road leads down from the Bocca di Larone to the bottom of the hollow, and, crossing it, mounts the further side, half way up which, a small white speck, is the Maison de l'Alza, and the end of my day's journey. All along the descent there are no words for the majesty and wonder of this scenery the tremendous mystery of those cloud-piercing towers and pillars, their sides riven and wrinkled in thousands of chasms, with pines growing in all their crevices and on all their ledges and pinnacles the waves of the forest, so to speak, stretching from side to side of the vale the groups of ilex, mixed with pine, in innumerable pictures, massive or slender, bare-stemmed or creeper-hung, flourishing in life, or dead glittering and white. At the end of the descent stand two small foresters' houses on the short space of level ground between the four sides of this vale of Bavella but here, at the twentieth kilomètre from Solenzaro, the clouds burst, and violent torrents of rain make shelter welcome. Yet when the storm ceases for  and the sun gleams out through cloud, the whole scene is lighted up in a thousand splendid ways, and becomes more than ever astonishing, a change@ful golden haze illumes the tops of the mighty peaks, a vast gloom below, resulting from the masses of black solemn pines standing out in deepest shadow from pale granite cliffs dazzling in the sunlight, torrents of water streaming down between walls and gates of granite, giant forms of trees in dusky recesses below perpendicular crags no frenzy of the wildest dreams of a landscape painter could shape out ideal scenes of more magnificence and wonder. From the twenty-first kilomètre the road again begins to wind steeply upwards between tall walls of spectre pines, half seen through a dim mist and thickly falling rain and at times I am glad to take shelter below some of the rocks, till complete wet-throughness renders any further care unnecessary. There is now no longer any fear of precipices, for the road here has a natural parapet of rock and G. has worked hard in superintending the progress of the carriage from behind, while the tired horses creep slowly up for in this last stage of their discomfort, Peter the merciless is not to be suffered to beat them@-@a shutting up of one valve which only occasions his anger to escape more violently by another. So that when there is a pause of a few minutes he occupies them in the most ferocious cursing, often so ridiculous, that it ceases even to be shocking, as he introduces into his maledictions a multitude of novel and definite detail quite surprising. Once, when the horses had stopped, and I prohibited their being touched, Peter's volubility ceased from sheer want of power to continue for, said he, I have no more breath, and besides I have sworn at everything, and there's nothing left to '@bestemmiare,' -to curse. But at that moment the upraised voice of several cuckoos, who seemed rather than not to rejoice in the rain, was heard, and gave him a fresh impetus, for, with a poetical ingenuity worthy a better cause, he exclaimed, May all the parliament of heaven be so full of these nasty cuckoo birds that the saints and apostles will not be able to hear themselves or each other speak and may every drop of rain turn into a million of snakes on its way from the sky downwards ! Assuredly Peter is a most unpleasant coachman. The Maison de l'Alza, close to the twenty-fourth kilomètre, was reached at 5.30 P.M. a neat tidy house of two storeys, standing in a space cleared from trees and looking directly across the valley to the Bocca di Larone. Here M. Mathieu came out, and received me most amiably, giving me and my servant rooms and, after putting on dry clothes, most welcome were a good fire and a hot basin of soup, not to speak of trout, pork and potatoes, and an omelette with morelles-a production of my host's-with plenty of good wine. A double-kerchiefed old woman and an old guardiano waited at table, and the house in the woods was a treasure after the day's work and walk. So also was a sound sleep in the camp-bed but, before that happened, I had already resolved to remain here all  29,4.45 A.M., wake with a strong impression that it is needful to work extra hard all day, in order to secure as many records as possible of the scenery I walked through in the afternoon of yesterday, anything approaching to the magnificence of which, as forest landscape, I have never seene to the perfect clearness of to-day, there cannot be that wealth of effect produced yesterday by the passing and lifting of clouds across the enormous crags-sublime and continually changing-and that infinite variety of light and shadow thrown over the pines and all the foliage of the deep hollow  The sun rises cloudlessly over the world of pines, and presently forms new and glorious pictures, as point after point of the western side of the valley is lighted up, while all the eastern part of the forest is as yet in dark and solemn shadow, below the giant crags-long streams of gold and bronze widening out gradually into masses of luminous green, and a flood of glory spreading slowly up the immense granite buttresses. I set off at 5.30 A.M. down to the bottom of the valley, and crossing it, go up as far as the Bocca di Larone, M. Mathieu, on his return to Solenzaro, overtaking me by the way, of whom I took leave, with thanks, for his good-natured hospitality. Thenceforth, all the rest of the day went in hard work, only interrupted at 11, after Giorgio's  break@fast is ready -and by walking from one part to another of this never-to-be-forgotten beautiful forest, not the least of its charms being the profound silence, broken only by the cuckoo's notes echoing from the crags, and from the fulness of melody chanted by thousands of blackbirds. Other forests in Corsica are much larger than this, but surely none can surpass it in certain qualities. For, remarkable as the valley of Bavella undoubtedly is as a whole, by reason of its intense solemnity, and for the double range of apparently perpendicular barriers which close it entirely from the outer world, and admit no prospect whatever beyond its limits, it is not less so for the exquisite detail of its scenery, the brushwood or maquis @@-particularly the arbutus and great heath-being throughout of the most perfect beauty. In some spots, too, groups of large evergreen oaks standing on slopes of green sward or fresh fern, and at others, masses of isolated granite, form pictures hardly to be exceeded in grandeur. A slowly moving black and orange lizard is a noticeable inhabitant of the forest he waddles gravely across the road, and frequently gets crushed by the wheels of the great timber carts. For, above the Maison de l'Alza great havoc goes on amongst the stately pines, and these enormous trees, peeled and cut angularly, are carried down to the valley depth, and thence up to the Bocca di Larone, and all the way to the shore at Solenzaro-often, as I have before observed, very unpleasant loads if met at sharp turns of the road. Some of these giant trees are six feet in diameter, and require fourteen or sixteen mules to drag them up to the Bocca. After a hard day's drawing I come up to the Maison de l'Alza before sun@set. Although the wrapping mists of yesterday's cloud and storm are blown away, and what seemed the fathomless hollows and immeasurable summits are now plainly understood yet, in spite of this, parts of the forest are still truly extraordinary, the greatest novelty of the scenery being that the great granite columns are so near to you, that here and there some of them appear literally overhead, while every imaginable beauty of detail adorns their surface and, again, one remarks how, sometimes, multitudes of tall needle-like pine stemse chasms in the crags, or cluster in lines of j@etty black against the pallid granite. Some of the scenes at the foot of the ascent to the Maison de l'Alza, and close to the great precipices, occupy me two or three hours-one, a narrow gorge with a perspective of spires, leading, as it were, into the very inmost heart of the mountain another, of bold crags see Plates 14 and 15 , dark against the sunset sky, and rising out of the most profuse vegetation-both scenes grand beyond expression in words. Nor, indeed, except by very careful study, could many of the greatest and wildest beauties of this forest be repre@sented in a sketch, and to attempt to do so seems like endeavouring in one day to make satisfactory notes from the contents of a whole library, full of all sorts of literature. Nevertheless, I have succeeded in obtaining a few striking points of this wonderful landscape. The wife of the guardiano did her best to procure us a dinner, though the materials of it were only potatoes in various forms happily the Solenzaro larder was far from exhausted. A painter, however, might and should endure anything short of starvation, to see what I have seen of Bavella. April 30.-Before the red sun glows over the eastern sea, and while yet the grand forest is in deep shade, I have risen, and having paid the expenses of Madame Guardiano, and secured a lot of pine cones and seeds for Stratton and various other English places, I leave G. to follow with disagreeable Peter and the trap, and walk on alone strict injunctions previously given that the horses are to take their own time, since there are but six more kilomètres to the top, and we shall there make a long halt. The silence and majesty of these pine forests at this hour ! the deep obscurity in dim untrodden dells ! the touches of gold high up on the loftiest branches and foliage !-And as the road mounts steeply upward, how beautiful are the cushions of green, the topmost verdure of the thousands of trees on which, far below, you look down !-Generally speaking, the Corsican pine has but little lateral foliage, but sometimes on the outskirts of the forest, you meet with trees that have broad arms and dark lines of flat spreading leafage, exactly resembling some in Martin's pictures. To make small memoranda as I walk up is all I can do, though in reality there are great pictures on every side, but such as require a long time to portray. At 9 A.M., a little beyond the twenty-ninth kilomètre, the last forest house, called Maison de Bavella, is reached, and here is to be the two hours' halt. The position of this little building is bewitching, for it overlooks every part of the valley, and being considerably higher than the opposite Bocca di Larone, has a most extended horizon in that direction some of the tallest and finest formed trees stand near, serving as frames for the scene below, and between their stems, far away on the eastern sea, appears the island of Elba so at  say the people at the forest house, though by its situation I should have thought it Monte Cristo and beyond that the Italian coast appears perfectly clear. An hour or more is passed in drawing at some distance from the high road. How pure at this height is the air ! what stately trees around ! how perfect and beautiful are these scenes ! and yet, though the last two days have considerably altered my opinion about pine-forest scenery, I would rather live among palms than pines. After breakfast, by the side of a delicious spring, on the last of the food pru@dently secured at Solenzaro, I wander on still upwards. All about the slopes above and around the Bavella forest-house, stand numerous little houses, or rather huts of stone these, says the woman at the Maison Forestière, are all occupied in the summer by the people of Zonza, the next village westward the whole of the inhabitants of that place coming, as it were, up-stairs, and passing three months in the forest. Everybody comes, says the guardianessa, the maire, the doctor, the priest but how they exist in such miserable dwellings it is not easy to understand, the rude buildings being made of masses of granite put together in the most cyclopean fashion, with wooden roofs, and heavy stones to keep the planks in their places. Inside there are shelves to do duty as beds, and in some there are tables, all of the roughest description. I counted more than eighty of these mountain homes as many more are fallen down, and are simply heaps of stones, while others are very unsafe and ready to collapse with the next heavy snow or violent wind. The turf-slopes and whispering tall pines about this high eastern ridge of Bavella are delightful and, doubtless, in the summer, when the temperature is always settled, an out-door life on this mountain top must have charms that atone for the want of comfort these unsatisfactory domiciles must present. By noon I reach the Bocca di Bavella, or top of the pass, where pines flattened and bent tell of the fury of the south-west tempests and here I look back for the last time on one of the most beautiful and wonderful dream-scenes of forest land@scape it has been my lot to see. Farewell, Bavella! After a short space of level, the road winds downward still through forests, which on this side of the mountain belong to the commune of Zonza, and are in many parts very magnificent, unfolding views of great extent and grandeur but in no wise comparable to that in the centre or valley of Bavella, inas@much as the accompaniment of the perpendicular crags which wall in the hollow forest there is wanting. After I P.M. the road passes another Maison Forestière, and now again for a space there are tall, majestic trees, and folds of innumerable pines stretch around the western sides of the mountain range, the higher points of which increase in picturesqueness as they are more remote. Farther down the trees are more mixed in species-a tangled wood of ilex and oak-and the scene is enlivened by a greater amount of animal life-orioles, chaffinches, and robins birds, of which in the depths of the forest but few are seen.  the pine ceases, and opener views succeed, gradually breaking up into plots of turf with the familiar detached masses of granite then, little by little, groups of chesnut trees and cultivation of corn follow, and presently I halt to draw the Incudine heights towering on the eastern side of the landscape and ribbed with snow. 3 P.M.-Zonza is reached unexpectedly, for, till a close approach, it is hidden by trees-a picturesque village, with a snow-white new campanile and, to give the horses a rest, I order Peter to pick me up later at a spot where, @@@@a@@@mong vast boulders of granite, the village composes prettily with the near rocks and far mountain, and masses of fine though still leafless chesnut. Below Zonza the road passes much beautiful landscape, some, indeed, of the most graceful I have seen in Corsica, very unlike the stern wild splendour of the Bavella scenery, but full of delicate and lovely Claude-like views, bosky dells, and a curving river, wooded distances, and good lines of far hill, among which I would there were more time to linger. Ever descending, the road at 3.45 passes another village, San Gavino except as they combine with other objects, these Corsican dwellings are rarely attractive, either from their form or colour but, adjoining this group of hamlets, there are very beautiful pastures and chesnut groves. After San Gavino is left, there is less of the picturesque and more of cultivation.  I reach Levié, 48 the road being always carried high up on the northern side of the great valley that runs in a south-westerly direction from the Incudine range and had I found the scenery remarkable for beauty, I had thought of stopping here for the night, since, although there is no sort of inn in the place, I have a letter of introduction from Signor Galloni d'Istria to the maire. But Levié, a large village, with detached houses along both sides of the main road, presents no inducement to remain, the buildings being ugly,@ and which has had no Vendetta since 1826, was troubled on the day I came through it by a fearful accident. A man had perished on account of a fowl, escaped from a courtyard, and which one woman had endeavoured to get back from another, her neighbour the latter, still pretending that the fowl was her's, consented at length to restore it, on the advice of a priest who stood by. The first woman, displeased at this manner of restitution, instantly wrung the neck of the fowl, and, throwing the dead bird at the head of her rival, exclaimed, Since you persist in saying the fowl is yours-eat it ! On this, some men joined in the fray, and being armed, the issue was fatal to one youth, against whom one of the opposite party had some previous grudge. The disasters which anciently arose from the carriage of arms were well pointed out by Limperani, and by the naive and pathetic sensibility of Filippini, who terminates his history at the year 1591 by this passage - The suppression of arms was ordered by Genoa in 1715, and the official reports of that time show that in the thirty-two preceding years 28,715 homicides had been committed, i.e., 897 annually. The permis@sion to bear fire-arms is one of the calamities which still continues to afflict Corsica it flatters the idleness of the peasant, who believes himself somebody when he walks about with his gun and the suppression or limit of this habit is one of the first measures that should be taken to give peace to the island.-@Valery, i., p. 213. To Levié belongs San Gavino de' Carbini, a place mentioned in Corsican history as being the chief seat of that extraordinary sect, the Giovannali those ancient Corsican communists, who made such rapid progress on the island, and were, in a manner, forerunners of the St. Simonists and the Mormons, c.-Gregorovius, p. 428. Of the tenets of the Giovannali, Valery and the Abbé Galletti give the following account, which, in face of facts established as historical concerning the destruction of Waldenses in Piedmont, Pro@testants in France, and Jews in Spian, may be received with caution. Those who, in the name of the Most High, confounded murder with righteousness, would hardly have scrupled at falsehood, had it served their purpose.-@E. L. Carbini, a little village near Levié, once celebrated and flourishing, has been ruined through false doctrines and bad ways. It was the cradle and the theatre of the excesses of the politico-religious sect of the Giovannali, a sort of Corsican Saint-Simonians of the fourteenth century. The Giovannali were remarkable for the strangeness of their costume, and the mystic rules of their lives already they had preached to an agitated and disquieted society the division of property, association of humanity into a single family, and absolute obedience to one and the same rule and they united to vague and chimerical projects of reform the most anti-social and cynical theories, such as of a community of women, c. After having made rapid strides, and having counted among their proselytes the powerful Signori Henri and Paul d'Attala, they were excommunicated by Innocent VI. Menaced and pursued without pity by the populace, who execrated them, and by the zealous Papal Commissioner, who came to Cor@sica with troops, the Giovannali, in spite of their pacific principles, took up arms, and, instead of sinking into obscurity, as did their Parisian successors, the whole of them were massacred.-@Valery, i., p. 214. Carbini is the place where, towards the end of the fourteenth century, the execrable society of the Giovannali arose, which professed a sort of St. Simonianism, and the most exaggerated communistic opinions. Paul and Henri d'Attala, bastard brothers of Guglielminaccio d'Attala, were the creators of this religious sect, which was excommunicated by Innocent VI., and pitilessly persecuted by the Corsicans, headed by the Commissioners of the Pope finally the faction w@as extirpated by a massacre in the Piève or Canton of Alessani. The Giovannali probably took their name from the Church of St. John of Carbini, where their proselytes often assembled they only recognised the Gospel of St. John, which they interpreted after their own fashion. Community of goods, whether money, land, or women, was one of their doctrines, and in their churches after service, the lights were extinguished, and they gave way to monstrous orgies. Carbini, become deserted by the destruction of the Giovannali, was re-peopled by families sent from Sarténé.@-Galletti, p. 159.  separately and collectively, and in a situation commanding no views remarka@able for beauty. Gardens abound in the neighbourhood, and in no place in Corsica have I seen greater abundance of fruit trees of various kinds@-almond, cherry, pear, c. these, and the ilex and oak interspersed among the dwellings, remind me of Mezzovo, in Albania, though here, in the street and on doorsteps, are groups of idlers such as industrious Mezzovo containeth not. 5.30 P.M.-A tedious ascent follows the road crossing the ridge that divides this deep and long valley from that of Santa Lucia di Tallano, a group of communes, which I have heard spoken of as famous for the production of some of the best wines in the island, and for its advancement in agriculture. All this part of to-day's journey has but little beauty to recommend it, nor, until the road dips into the next valley, is the scenery interesting, either as to general outline or nearer detail one village only Mera appears to me in passing to offer any attraction for the pencil. All down these long hill drives, and from village to village, but few people are met with three or four drivers, two@ timber-carts from the forest, with their long team of mules, besides half a dozen peasants, are the utmost signs of human life seen throughout this day's journey. On approaching Santa Lucia di Tallano the landscape becomes every minute more pleasing the principal village is compactly built on a little hill, and is picturesque from the presence of a good campanile and an old convent close by. Everywhere there is foliage and abundant streams of water, and below-for Santa Lucia stands very high-you see the valley of Tallano, almost a little plain, and full of cultivated undulating ground a long range of hills separates this@-@the valley of the Tavaria@-@from that of Olmeto or the Boracci, which runs into the gulf of Valinco. There seem to be some very large and good houses in Santa Lucia di Tallano, and I rejoice at not having stopped at Levié. Sometimes, however, a man may be thankful too soon for, on driving into the little town, and enquiring of a gendarme for the best hotel, I am directed to a house, the entrance and interior of which is so unclean and uncomfortable, that with reluctance I decide on not risking a sleepless night there. Other hotel, they assure me, there is none and, as I have an intro@ductory letter to Don Giacomo Giacomone, the principal proprietor of the place, I cause myself to be shown to his dwelling-a spacious house beyond the piazza. Unfortunately, Don Giacomo is from home, and, although the Signora, his wife, sends down a message begging me to remain, I do not. like, at the late hour it now is, to intrude suddenly as claimant of a night's lodging and, consequently, return to the hotel with small prospect of comfort. Luckily, meanwhile, the landlord has had the offer of a room in another building, where it is possible to get housed this has, at least, the negative merit of being less dirty than his own, and is, before long,  arrangements, made tolerably available. It is but just to say that the innkeeper did all in his power to oblige, bringing in some supper -such as it was-from the hotel, and making apologies without end for being so taken by surprise as to be unable to procure any eatables except eggs, salad, and pickled tunny. In no instance as yet have I met in Corsica anything but civility and when a traveller encounters discomfort it seems to be to these worthy people a cause of real regret. After supper, Don Giacomo Giacomone came in, much distressed at not having been at home when I called at his house, to which he even  I should go. Eventually it is arranged that at sunrise I should be shown all that is to be seen in and around Santa Lucia di Tallano, and that I should breakfast with  seems that Dr. Bennet, of Mentone, has been staying with M. Giacomone for three days, and only left this morning. May I.-Waking, a vivid impression of Bavella and its wondrous trees and precipices-that strange oasis of glory, which is yet fresh and bright to memory-haunts the landscape painter, who, since days passed in the pine woods in Euboea, has seen nothing of the sort so beautiful. At 5 A.M. I get coffee at the hotel -alas, for the state of the floors thereof !-and then meet Don Giacomo Giacomone, who awaits me with a  piazza, a square, neither small nor of undistinguished appearance, for it contains several good houses, and it seems strange that so well-looking a town should be so ill off for accommodation. My first occupation is to get a drawing of Santa Lucia, from a point to which Don Giacomo takes me, whence the view, though wanting in variety, is very pleasing and this is followed by a walk along a new road my guide is making to join that leading to Zicavo , traced along the higher part of the valley, and commanding views up and down it both extensive and beautiful, towards Zicavo on one side, and on the other towards Sarténé, a portion of which is just visible from one point of it. Don Giacomo, who is a great landowner here, and a most energetic improver of his property, is full of enthusiasm, and justly so, concerning the valley of Tallano, a canton or district containing several communes. The cultivation of the vine is one of its principal interests the fertility of the soil, the richness of vegetation, abundance of fruit, and facility of transport by road to Sarténé and Ajaccio, justify the eulogies of my wealthy companion, who is as free from ostentation as he is full of hospitality. Our next move, after returning to Santa Lucia, is to visit the two old churches mentioned by Valery,49 and the ancient convent of Pisan times, now abandoned, and belonging, apparently, like everything else here, to M. Giaco@mone, who is evidently the Marquis de Carabas of Santa Lucia di Tallano. This convent, my guide suggests, might be made into a hotel for the use of such English visitors to Ajaccio as having wintered there do not wish to return for the summer to England or Switzerland but if this design be ever carried out in Corsica, it seems to me that a more lofty situation would be preferable. M. Giacomone proposes at 9 to go to his house, which, after the fashion of houses in Corsica, is better than its entrance or exterior promises, and contains a good suite of well-furnished rooms on the second floor the little bed-room which was shown me as that where I was to have slept had I arrived suffi@ciently early was perfect in its arrangement and cleanliness, and might have been in Paris.  of 700 inhabitants, I tried twice, but without success, to find in the ancient convent of the Franciscans the curious picture of Rinuccio della Rocca, the last of the great feudal lords of Corsica, represented as in the act of administering justice to the people, wit@h his Genoese wife by his side. One part of the convent is now the quarters of the gendarmerie the rest of the building, let to peasants, is used as cellars. This part, it is said, was the Hall of Justice of Rinuccio, and the fresco was on the roof.@-@Valery, i., p. 206. The magnificent convent built at Tallano by Rinnuccio della Rocca is still in good condition.-Galletti, p. 159. Of the orbicular granite found in the neighbourhood of Tallano, and of other sorts of marble, M. Valery says -These coloured, clouded, or sparkling rocks, are like the vegetation and the flowers, ornaments of the wild mountains of the island. Independently of their beauty, they have also some sort of productiveness, for many of the granites produce in abundance a certain lichen, from which chemistry in England extracts a splendid and unchangeable crimson dye this is manufactured only by one Glasgow house, and the exportation of this lichen amounts to the value of 100,000 francs.-Valery, i., p. 208.  Giacomone and her eldest daughter @-more like sisters than parent and child-dressed plainly in black, both good-looking, and singularly graceful and pleasant. Unlike some days in former travels through Abruzzo and Calabria, when the difficulty of discourse used to be well-nigh unconquerable, conversation is here easy and agreeable, for both these ladies, though they have never been out of their native island, are well educated, and full of information about their own country, as well as of interest regarding others. Then we all went down-stairs, where a table was laid for eight or ten, exhibiting an aspect of great plenty and propriety. To each person's plate there were not less than six glasses, so that the Scotch minister-of whom it is recorded that he adapted his form of grace to what he thought the probable conditions of the banquet-commencing, when there were only beer glasses on the table, with Bless the food of these puir miserable creatures ! and, on the contrary, if champagne glasses were visible, beginning in a loud and joyful tone with Bountifully shower down all Thy blessings on these thy excellent servants ! -might have appropriately asked the latter bene@diction on my hosts at Tallano, even though their wines were of home growth. For, starting with bread and butter of the first quality, olives, and other etcetera, and proceeding with eels and trout, through a course of stews and ragouts, to plain roast fowl and mutton, and ending in creams and broccio all these, with many kinds of vegetables and fruits, were simply excellent, and, moreover, all derived from the possessions of these wealthy and hospitable people. As for the wines, they were supplied rather more bountifully than I liked this, a white vintage, was to be tried that of red must not be neglected and, had I any previous doubt on the subject, I should have been convinced by the experience of this morning of the eminently good qualities of the Corsican wines.50 Several of these are not unlike Burgundy, and, unless mixed with a large portion of water, are too strong for ordinary use the very best are made largely by M. Giacomone, and vino di Tallano is proverbial on the west side of the island for its excellence. Two younger children, Amalia and Catarina, were of the family party, which is really pleasant and friendly the two ladies are sensible and well-bred, and Don Giacomo, fluent on the topic of his possessions, and on the prospective commercial value of Tallano to England, is hearty and jovial.  at Morato with Signor Barbaggi, and had chocolate and at dinner we had no less than twelve well-drest dishes, served on Dresden china, with a dessert, different sorts of wine, and a liqueur, all the produce of Corsica.-Boswell, p. 280. At Ajaccio, a delicate white wine made in the neighbourhood, which we thought resembled C@hablis.@-Forester. M. Giacomone tells me that his prices are-2 fr. 50 c. the litre, or quart, for the wine of 1860 2 fr. 25 c. for that of 1861 and 2 fr. for that of 1862, in the wood.-Bennet, p. 260.  Coffee was given up-stairs, and an hour passed in drawing pictures for the children. Barrabattoli, as they called butterflies, were most in favour but their glee was immense at all the nonsense I scribbled for them in the shape of birds carrying parasols, fishes smoking pipes, c. Act the last was to ascend a tower or belvedere, thence to contemplate the whole of the village and my host's property. Santa Lucia is in all respects well placed yet, as a landscape painter, I should prefer to live amid the ruder but more picturesque scenery of Sarténé, in spite of the reputation Tallano is said to have of excelling all other valleys in Corsica for its cultivation. At noon, after vain attempts to resist polite offers to accompany me to the hotel, I took leave of the friendly M. Giacomone and his family, and set off for Sarténé. Notwithstanding the elevation at which Santa Lucia is placed, it is not very picturesque from any point except that from which I drew it this morning. Scattered hamlets, fertile slopes, gay with the pleasant green of corn and vineyard, fields of blooming flax-which seen from above have the beautiful effect of sheets of water reflecting the blue sky-chesnut groves, and general woody richness, these are the characteristics of the Tallano valley, walled in on each side by rather monotonous hill forms, unbroken by detail, and somewhat wanting in interest. For an hour and a half the winding road descends towards the river Tavaria, by whose banks are large flocks of diminutive black sheep, and broad fields of pearly-bloomed asphodel. At 2 P.M. the valley is left, the high road to Ajaccio reached, and once more I am going slowly up the well-known ascent to Sarténé. The beauty of foreground as well as of distance, in this part of Corsica, appear to me more remarkable than ever now that I revisit it and I gladly walk up the hill to enjoy the variety of picturesqueness on all sides, as well as to avoid hearing the cursing of the unpleasant Peter, who shall certainly go no farther with me than the next two days' journeys. Even my taciturn servant Giorgio is moved, in one of P.'s frightful paroxysms, to say, If you swear so and never stop, you should provide some cotton for my master's ears and mine to which Peter says, Vero e l'uomo deve esser sempre paziente ci vuol sempre pazienza-it is true man should be always patient patience is necessary. There yet remained time before going into Sarténé to make a drawing see Plate 7 from above the Capuchin convent, and another by the bridge, of the wide view westward that takes in all the landscape from the snow white Incudine heights, in gradations of wood and hill down to the sea afterwards I made visits to M. le Sous-Préfet and M. Vico, and then went to the Hotel d'Italia. Fatima of Sarténé, out of respect to my suggestion about cleanliness, has actually had the whole of her room floors coloured red, and wax-polished  delighted with my commendation of her experiments in the way of pro@gress. Nor, in this, my second visit here, was other fault to be found than in the over-abundance of her dinner-soup, trout, and lobster, boiled beef and artichokes, stewed veal, mutton, and olives, roast lamb and salad, cucumbers, butter, c.-an oppressive amount of good things, sending away any of which untouched sorely vexed the good landlady. My return to her hotel instead of going to the other inn greatly pleases poor Fatima, and she volunteers conversation and confidence to a degree at once surprising and mournful. Did you not, said she, enumerating one by one the hotels I had been to, at Grosseto, at Olmeto, at Bonifacio, Porto Vecchio, and Solenzaro, find that all the hotels were kept by widows ? Yes, said I. Have you written down this fact ? I have. Then, said the unhappy Fatima, write me down, too, a widow, and not only a widow, but mille volte piu infelice che tutte vedove-a thousand times more unhappy than all widows ! Whereon there followed a tremendous burst of tragic eloquence in the highest tones, and with gestures to match, telling how, after seventeen years of marriage, in which she had never given her husband the smallest cause for discontent-la minima cagione di scontento-he had forsaken her, faithlessly carrying off her servant girl, and settling in Sardinia under a changed name in a new hotel, had left the unfortunate Fatima, like the Ossianic heroine before alluded to, alone, upon the hill of storms. Fatima's opinion about the state of the culinary science in the other hotel at Sarténé was sufficiently sweeping, the cook there being, according to her, un disgraziato vecchio, chi forse settanta anni fa, sapeva far una frittura, -mai piu di cio ed ora nemmeno tanto-a miserable old man, who per@haps seventy years ago knew how to make an omelette, never anything more and now not even that. May 2.-At sunrise the completion of the drawing above the town occu@pied me till 7 A.M., when I joined the trap at the bridge, and left beautiful Sarténé with regret. To-day's journey will be over no new ground. Passing the charming river scenes, where I spent the 18th and 19th of April, I reached the unhealthy village of Propriano at 8, and having made the ascent from the shore to Olmeto on foot, reached that place at 10.15. The walk up from the sea, six and a half kilomètres-a steep and hot pull-is pleasant from the extreme beauty of the landscape-much of which cloud and bad weather had prevented my seeing on the 16th ultimo-where graceful olives and luxuriant  than ever, and the universal melody of nightingales filling the hill sides and deep valley, are all truly delightful. The horses have a long day's work to-day, but though I and my servant almost always walk, it is not certain that they are better off on account of having less weight to pull, for when I am in the carriage I can prevent Peter from beating them, which he never neglects to do, if I give him an opportunity by lingering behind. At present he is to rest at least two hours at Olmeto, a place that seems fuller of idle people than at my first visit. On inquiring for Mr. B., I found that he had become much worse than when I was here on the 17th of April, and I went up to see him. It does not seem to me possible that he can live much longer, and this, by a message he begged me to take to his father in England, is evidently his own impression. Although he has with him an attendant who takes every care of him, and although he appears to have made friends among the people of Olmeto, yet nothing could be more sad than to see so young a man dying in so lonely and desolate a manner in this remote Corsican village. At 11.30, after a walk nearly to the top of the hill above Olmeto, where groups of large trees, seldom lacking in Corsica, are plentiful, a spot is easily found-favourable alike as a place for a sketch and for the despatch of poor Fatima's bountiful breakfast-surrounded by bushes peopled with nightingales, robins, and blackbirds, and infinitely lovely with wild flowers. At 12.45 P.M. I go on, and at Casalabriva await the trap and the ever-swearing Peter. All the landscape, hidden by rain and cloud at the time I first passed here, is now a grand outspread of maquis @@-covered hills, green down to the very last point and deepest dell of the valley of the Taravo, and up to the high wall of snow and long lines of Mont Renoso in the north and east but in all this extent there is no particular spot tempting me to linger and draw. Just beyond the village of Casalabriva a wonderful spectacle strikes the. eye, namely, a carriage with two horses, a lady and her maid therein, going, like the landscape painter, to see all Corsica. It is Miss C., who is on her way to Sarténé and Bonifacio. We stop and discourse, the cheery nature of this pleasant lady being a happy set-off to the sad scene I had left at the sick man's house in Olmeto. I recommend the lonely Fatima to Miss C.'s notice, but, unluckily, she has already written to secure rooms at the other inn and so, as in the words of the song- Too soon we part with pain, To drive o'er dusty roads again,- Miss C. continuing to profess herself incredulous as to the safety of my luggage, and still predicting that some indefinite woe will befall me on account  my employing Peter, of whom, now that I am experienced as to his character, certainly very little good may be expected. The descent of Bicchisano follows, and that village is reached at 2.40. Some of the ilex-grown dells on the way are indeed beautiful, but in the great valley of the Taravo, though it is full of innumerable studies, few views of general interest can be selected, and the landscape is of a nature exacting long term of study for individual detail. Towards the bridge over the Taravo there are many lovely pictures which would delight the eye, and give work for the pencil of Creswick, who so it seems to me is the best portrayer after Turner of river and wood scenery combined. A walk along this stream is one succession of park landscapes, and the thick foliaged white-armed ilex-trees, so mingled with granite rocks and the foaming river, would even be more beautiful were there snow on the hills to form a contrast with the dark bosky hollows.51 Once only during the afternoon, at a place where two or three houses called by Peter, Bagni di Surbalaconi , combine with the fine bridge and the high road to indicate the vicinity of man, do I see any human life here there is a little boy tending some goats. Peter, who is somewhat ahead, having dropped the apron of the carriage, the small boy picks it up, runs after the trap to give it him, and returns to his goats whereon I offer him the super@fluity of Fatima's breakfast-to wit, two loaves of bread. But these are rejected with a solemn and decided shake of the head by the child who, however, on my telling him that though white, they are really good bread, takes them after a time gravely, and thenceforth appears to think that he ought to do something in return. Perhaps, says he, you might be pleaded to know the names of my goats one is Black-nose, another Silver-spot, that is Grey-foot, and this is Cippo. Cippo is quite the best goat in these @parts, and likes to be talked to-come un Cristiano-just like a Christian-perhaps, even if you stand still, she may let you scratch the end of her nose, and I will call her at once if you choose to try. After which gratifying information the small boy prattles about the state of the corn, and the good it has gained from the last rains, with a quiet intelligence, and at the same time with a want of vivacity peculiar to Corsican life until at a by-lane he says, The goats must go down here so addio ! -and exit. At 6.30 P.M. I am once more at the little Hotel des Amis, kept by the Widow Lionardi see page 37 , at Grosseto the village, with its houses half hidden among large trees, has a quiet, rural character that greatly charms me, and the inn is by no means an unwelcome place of rest. Just after I arrive, a sudden confusion takes place, which, thirty years ago, would doubtless have occasioned a Vendetta a little boy throws a large stone at a little girl with  very common, and gives the country a cheerful look, even in the depth of winter.@-Boswell, p. 45.  her two front teeth, besides disfiguring her face screams resound, the mother of the girl pursues the boy, the neigh@bours join in the clamour, and there is every prospect of a fight worthy of the Henrietta-street colony at the back of my London rooms , when gendarmes interfere, and forcibly wind up the commotion as a moral or finale to which, the mother of the injured girl inflicts a violent chastisement on her small daughter, either to teach her a better choice of companions, or to impress her with the fact that the saying, misfortunes never come single, is a solemn truth. The Widow Lionardi, to her dinner of stewed veal, trout, and roast lamb, adds a dish of fiardoni, or cakes made of pastry and broccio-in other words, cheesecakes, or as they are called in Crete,  V. Ilex Woods of Grosseto-Return to Cauro-Mdme. Paoloni's Good Cheer-Set out for Bastelica-Peter the Coachman's ill treatment of his Horses-Ministers of Finance-@Woody Valley-Charcoal Burners-Extent of Maquis -Forest House and Mill-Peter, being left to his own devices, cruelly beats his Horses-They back to the edge of the Precipice, into which they and the Carriage fall-Fulfilment of Miss C.'s Predictions-Assistance procured from the Forest House-The Painter walks on to Bastelica, and returns with a Car and Mules-Situation of Bastelica-Well-bred Children-Night passed in the Forest House-Return by a Mule Car to Cauro and Ajaccio-Stay at the Hotel de Londres-M. Lambert-Plans to visit the great Forests of A@itone, and Valdoniello, and the Greek Colony-M. Gery, the Préfet of Corsica-Search for a second Carriage, and hire one from Jean Carburo the Vaudois-Dinner at the Préfecture-Leave Ajaccio for the Forests and North-West Coasts-Flora the Dog, and Domenico the new Driver-Ascent to, and View from San Sebastiano-Calcatoggio Descent to Sea Shore-Mid-day Halt-Valley and Plain of the Liamone-Sagona-Promontory of Carghésé-The Village Hotel-The Greek Priest and the Colony-Cultivation of the neighbouring Lands-Greek seldom spoken now at Carghésé-Growth of Cactus-Papa Michele's Information-Gardens and Nightingales-Cheerful Aspect of Carghésé-The Greek Church-The Gendarmerie, and Introductions to Persons at the Forests -Leave Carghésé-Mountain Scenery, and Green Maquis -Magnificent Views about La Piana-The Village, and its clean and good little Inn. May 3.-The Hotel des Amis, Widow Lionardi's unpretending little inn, is so good and comfortable that it would be a capital central head-quarters for study to a landscape painter. Leaving it at sunrise, and sending on Peter to the Bocco, or Col San Giorgio, I made a drawing of the village from a little way up the hill the top of the church tower is golden in the rising sun, and all the brown and shadowy depths of ilex-as beautiful a feature in the fore@ground of this valley as are the green splendour and softness of the distance below the farthest range of the hills near Bicchisano-are particularly delightful at this calm, early hour a world of quiet, save for the song of nightingales and the fresh sound of running streamlets. See Vignette, p. 110. By 7.40 A.M. the top of the col San Giorgio is reached, and the wayside inn at Cauro by 8.30, where three hours are allotted for baiting the horses and breakfast. After I have been down the hill as far as Barraconi to make a drawing there, which I could not get on the cloudy evening of April 15th, I shall go on to Bastelica for the night, and back to Ajaccio to-morrow. At 9.30, having terminated my Barraconi drawing, I am once again at Mdme. Angela Paoloni's hotel, where there are still some of the party of officials who were here at the time of my first visit I have now, however, been long enough in Corsica to avoid mistakes. These gentlemen give me several valuable hints as to parts of the island to which I have not yet been. M. Chauton, a continental, has, they say, a great establishment for cutting and transport of trees at Valdoniello, and they recommend me to procure an introduction to him in order to see what they affirm is the most magnificent of  Corsican forests though secretly I believe there can be none so fine as Bavella . A carriage road, I am told, leads to Aïtone and Valdoniello from Evisa, either by way of Porto. or Vico. Mdme. Paoloni's breakfast of trout and beefsteak, brains and caper-sauce, Irish-stew, broccio, c., good in quality and profuse in quantity, is, as usual, a curious contrast to the stairs and entry of her hotel, and is accompanied  usual careful and obliging manners of Corsican innkeepers. When I leave the house the hostess says, Do not pay me now, but stop as you return, and pay  not so, I reply, for who can tell what may happen ? Suppose I should die at Bastelica you would then lose your money. In that case, says Mdme. Paoloni, although we are poor, and should miss your money, we should not feel the loss so much, because our sorrow for your death would be greater. Shortly after noon I went on towards Bastelica, which is twenty kilomètres distant. Peter the oathful, who this morning has had some very bad fits of swearing and beating, but who is at present in a comparatively placidd At these villages I am very often asked who you are, and I always say you are the Ministro delle Finanze-the Finance Minister of England. But why, said I, do you @say such a thing ? Oh, partly because you wear spectacles, and have an air of extreme wisdom, and partly because one must say something or other. A Minister of Finance seems to be grim Peter's beau ideal of earthly grandeur, and he has frequently spoken of having accompanied the illustrious M. Abbattucci, late Minister of Finance, to the country residence of that personage at Zicavo. Now, as I was particularly in want of information con@cerning the road thither, I asked him one day, Did M. Abbattucci make the journey by Sta. Maria Zicché, or by the village of Bicchisano ? He went by Grosseto to Sta. Maria, was the reply. But, said I, as the way from Ajaccio to Zicavo is long, where did the minister stop, at Grosseto, or is there any other midway inn ? By no means, said Peter, non si fermò punto, andava a giorno e notte--@he stopped nowhere, but travelled day and night. Era mortissimo-he was quite dead-that Minister of Finance-e non era che sue cenere che si portava-it was only his ashes that I took to Zicavo. Long ascents, varied by portions of level ground, lead along the hill sides the road is good and broad, but like other Routes Forestières, without a parapet on the sides towards the valley, up which, clothed luxuriantly with maquis and larger trees, the eye looks to the snowy heights at the end of it, immediately above the village of Bastelica as a whole, the picture is grand and beautiful, but possessing no particular beauty of detail. I walk up the ascent, to give the brutal Peter as little excuse as possible for maltreating his horses, who go on slowly, but regularly, if left to themselves. It is a pleasure to think that to-morrow I shall get rid of this man, and, meanwhile, though I or my servant are generally able to prevent his inhuman treatment, this is not always possible, as, accompanying the act with torrents of maledictions, he will sometimes, quite unexpectedly, strike the horses so fiercely as to make them back three or four paces. About 1.40 the valley grows somewhat narrower bright streams of water fall from the hill side to join the river below, the tall heath, full of white blossom, reminds me of the shores of Albania, near Porto Tre Scoglie, and all along the route the clothing of these Corsican mountains never ceases to be a charm and a wonder, for there are spreading woods of ilex, and a thick carpet of maquis right and left. The top of the first ascent is reached about 3, at the tenth kilomètre, when a level bit of road succeeds. The only life seen since leaving Cauro is in a group of charcoal burners, not to speak of twenty pigs revelling in a shallow pool of water. The charcoal burners talk with a vivacity very singular for Corsicans but forthwith I find them to be Italians from the neighbourhood of  kilomètre eleven and a half is a neat little forest house and a mill. The guardiano and his family, sitting outside their dwelling, make a picture, com@bined with groups of trees and the beautiful river, here close below the high@way, and dashing foamily over its worn stones. Beyond this point the road makes a sharp turn, and for the moment Peter is lost sight of. Latterly his swearing has been so horrible, and his cruelty so odious, that I have thought at times that he is not quite sane consequently, I have walked nearer the carriage, and it was only by the accident of my having stopped a little while at the forest house, to make some inquiries about the distance, that he had got considerably ahead, for here the ascent is not steep. But on turning the corner of the road just mentioned there was a shocking sight, and one that became more so at each moment. Taking this opportunity of being alone Peter had given way to a burst of rage and violent blows with his whip handle on the poor beasts' heads. In vain did both I and Giorgio shout, running forward. Even then the carriage stood at right angles to the side of the road, and not far from the edge of it, above the river, while at every blow the poor horses backed nearer to the ravine. One more blow-carriage and horses are quite at the side of the pre@cipice !-Yet one more blow, struck with an infernal scream from bad Peter, and the horses back for the last time ! And  down, go all into the ravine ! Nothing was left on the road but the abominable old fellow, kneeling, and wailing to the Madonna and all the saints, whom a minute before he had been blaspheming. I ran back to the corner of the road, whence I could see the forest house, to alarm the inhabitants and, directly, they set off on the way up to help. Meanwhile, the Suliot was already down the steep. Happily, the hill side at this spot, the twelfth kilomètre, is not nearly so precipitous as it is at a few yards distance either way, and a cluster of large chesnut trees had stopped the carriage and horses from rolling downward to the stream. One of the poor beasts was, notwithstanding, killed on the spot the other, which G. had managed to extricate, was dreadfully lacerated by a sharp rock. The car@riage, as may be supposed, was broken in pieces, and the luggage-literally fulfilling Miss C.'s prediction-had rolled further down, among the rocks and fern. The zeal with which the forester, his son, and friends, worked to get up the roba and the remaining horse, was most praiseworthy and seeing so much energy where I had expected apathy, I internally resolved to be less hasty in future in characterising Corsicans as lazy, on account of their being undemon@strative. By 4 all the roba had been carried up, and was in a pile by the road-side, as were the splintered portions of the vehicle but what was nowa done ? At Bastelica, still eight kilomètres ahead, they say that a car may be got and to send on the forester's son a lad of sixteen or seventeen at once seems the best plan, so that he may bring a car-or, if none can be obtained, mules-that I may then either go on to Bastelica, or back to Cauro, as circumstances may direct. The youth, Domenico Casanova, there@fore sets off running and later I resolve to walk on to Bastelica, for if that should not prove a place in which there is much work for my pencil, then I can return here with the mule-cart, or, if otherwise, pass the night there the luggage, meanwhile, and the ruins of the carriage, will be well cared for by Giorgio, and by the good people who have been helping me so energetically. From the thirteenth kilomètre, which I passed at 4.15, the road up the valley commands views of a fine solitude of pine woods and far snowy heights, and at the eighteenth kilomètre I am able to make a sketch of the village, which stands very high, and is seen from the midst of luxuriant chesnut groves. Bastelica, in the summer time must, indeed, be a delightful place, embosomed, as it is, in foliage below its lofty mountain amphitheatre. 52 On reaching the village before 6, by a steep ascent at the nineteenth and a half kilomètre from Cauro, I found three mules being put to one of the long carts used by the peasantry, and the forester's son actively hastening the operation. And as I had ascertained that I could do little so far as regards making a view of the very straggling village of Bastelica beyond what I had already done, and as a clear full moon is shining, I decide on returning in the jolting-car to the forest-house, and perhaps to get on as far as Cauro to-night, which place the diligence passes at 7 A.M. to-morrow. Bastelica, I perceive, should be seen when the chesnut-tree is in full leaf, for without that its principal characteristic is wanting. While Domenico went to get some eggs and wine as it is by no means certain that his father's house contains eatables , I talk with the villagers, a large number of whom crowded round me. The propriety of conduct in these rustics strikes me very forcibly the absence of all clamour and rudeness, and the good sense of their observations on my replying to their questions concerning the accident, are as remarkable as the intelligence which is in all their countenances. Every one of the children, too, of  inhabitants, passes for the most considerable village in Corsica. At Domenicacce, a hamlet close by, is the house called the Tower of Sampiero, with the date, 1546.-Valery, i., p. 187. Farther to the north of Cauro lies the great canton of Bastelica, which is separated by a mountain chain from that of Zicavo. This rugged mountain land is the native place of Sampiero. In Bastelica, or rather in the small hamlet of Dominicaccia, they still show the black gloomy house where he was born for his own house was pulled down by the Genoese under Stephen Doria. All the people of this valley are distinguished by a strong build and martial physiognomy they are principally herds@men rugged men, with the iron manners of their forefathers, and quite unaffected by culture.-Gregorovius, p. 411.1 are many, is well conducted. I find they are taught French as well as Italian, and that the more advanced could read and write in both languages so grave and well-bred a lot of little fellows one would not expect to find in such a remote place. Pasquale, the@ driver of the mule-cart, was ready to start at 6.30, but I walked down the hill as far as a cottage, where there was a halt, in order, said the man of Bastelica, to take up something he had to convey to Cauro. This something proved to be two immense bags, which, when lifted on to the narrow car, occupied more than half its space, though that was not of such importance as the fact that they tainted the air with the most horrible odours, proceeding, as I soon found, from the contents, which were old rags. This episode occasioned some delay, for I would neither have the rags nor the owner, and I was compelled, before the matter was settled, to tell the driver that our bargain was at an end, unless I could have the car to myself. And when the rag-bags were finally ejected, the anger of the rag-man was exceedingly funny. It is plain, he said, that you know nothing of Corsica. Probably you never heard that Napoleon Buonaparte, the greatest man in all the world, was born here. The oldest and dirtiest rags are honourable here, and you should be grateful for smelling and touching them ! This delay made it 7 P.M before we were off, but the car jolted rapidly down the hill, and the moon gave a light like day by 8 we were at the ill-fated twelfth kilomètre, where there was nothing now left but splinters of the carriage, and shortly afterwards arrived at the forest lodge, to which all the roba had been removed. Here, for I had had enough of jolting and walking for one day, I decided on remaining the night, and to go on as early as I could to-morrow to Ajaccio so the camp-bed was put up, and the eggs, and bread and wine were the dinner, to which the good-natured forester added some onions and broccio, after frying the eggs with alacrity. The guardiano, Stefano Casanova, is a civil and pleasant fellow, and his wife a good, bustling, tidy body they are from Evisa, about which place they give me various information, and declare that the pines of A@ïtone are the most surprising in the world, so much so, says M. Casanova, by a powerful metaphor, that the only possible way to see their tops is to lie down flat on your back and look up into the sky. More obliging people I could not have chanced to meet with how hard they worked with G. to get up the roba and horse ! how quickly their son Domenico had gone to Bastelica, and how busily, while constantly worrying the slow Pasquale to bestir himself, he had managed to get the car and mules ready ! I should be glad, were it possible, to return to Bastelica before leaving Corsica its position, in a kind of cul-de-sac, below some of the highest moun@tains, is fine, and although, owing to its form-being a very scattered  does not appear to contain many houses, it is in reality one of the largest in. the island. May 4, 4.30 A.M.-The rushing river below this little forest-house reminds me of many nights' lodgings in Switzerland, particularly of one by the falls of the Aar and, doubtless, had I not had my invaluable camp-bed here, other and livelier objects of similarity would not be wanting. I went up the hill to the scene of yesterday's catastrophe except the trampled bushes and splinters of broken wheels, c. there is little sign of what took place-the last struggle of the poor falling horses will not be so easily effaced from my memory. As I returned to the forest-house the odious Peter, who has hitherto carefully kept out of my way, accidentally met me, and to him I delivered a short moral discourse on the general impropriety of anger, and the particular evil of profane swearing, in reply to which that impish individual only said, Oh, mi lasci ! mi lasci ! ci vuol sempre la pazienza la più buona cosa e la pazienza-leave me ! leave me ! patience is always necessary the best of all things is patience. So I did leave him, and I truly hope I may never again see his unpleasant face. At 5.30 Pasquale and the jolt-car were ready, and G. had packed all the roba on it, so, having given the worthy Casanova couple some money for their boy Domenico to buy what he liked with, jolting began forthwith, and in two hours Cauro was reached, Madame Angela Paoloni gazing from her window in extreme surprise at my third appearance, as I passed her door in a travelling guise so different to that of my two former visits. At Barraconi there was a halt of half an hour to bait the mules, a time I employed in looking about the beautiful valley of Suarella see vignette, page 32 , so historically interesting as the scene of the death of Sampiero. The Campo di Loro, clouded and obscured when I had passed it on April 15, seemed to me now most beautiful, the broad green meadows and tall poplars harmonising well with the distant snowy range beyond. By 11 Ajaccio was reached, the ungainly mule-car and its driver paid and dismissed, and Ottavi's hotel once more made head-quarters. And thus ends the first fytte of Corsican travel.53 There were letters to read and to write, and in the afternoon a drawing to finish on the delightful hill beyond the grotto. Now that all the ridges and hollows on the southern part of those opposite mountains are familiar to me, with what a different interest is this scene, so charming even before, invested !  of Suarella and Eccica, a well-grounded tradition indicates the spot where Sampiero perished, January 17, 1567. One arrives at the place where his death occurred by a wild path along the banks of a torrent. Near at hand are the ruins, mingled with olive and ilex trees, of the castle of Giglio, where Sampiero had passed the night, and where he had questioned and caused to be put to death a peasant convicted of intelligence with the Genoese.-@Valery, p. 185. On a rock in the vicinity are seen the ruins of the castle of Giglio, where Sampiero had passed the night before he met his death. I looked about in vain for any monument to remind the traveller that in this awful place the greatest of all Corsican heroes fell.@-@Gregor@orius, p. 407.@ There, high up the hill, is Cauro, there to the left of it is the pass to Col San Giorgio, and there, across the ridge, are the high snow hills beyond Grosseto there, too, are the heights of Bastelica. May 5.-Soon after sunrise I am drawing at the grotto hill, overlooking garden and shrubbery, down to the calm gulf and silver-topped mountains and on so lovely a morning as this it seems to me that imagination could picture no scene more beautiful@@. Later, on calling at Dr. Ribton's, I find that my friends the J. S.'s are not only gone, but that they have been heard of from Pisa their transit from this side of the island to the other having been of the unluckiest, in a fierce storm of rain and wind, and with the addition of their carriage having been upset before reaching Corte. Nor are the chances very favourable for my own progress in seeing the rest of Corsica for, first, M. Galloni d'Istria, who had so ably and kindly helped me with introductions in my first tour, has gone to Italy and, secondly, although the Préfet, M. Géry, has returned from France, he has met with a bad accident in leaving the steamer, and is laid up and, thirdly, my servant Giorgio has a fit of fever, possibly owing to chill after the hard work in the Bastelica ravine two days ago. As a set-off against all this, I make the acquaintance of M. Lambert the commandant of gendarmerie in the arrondissement of Ajaccio , who dines in the rooms of the Ottavi hotel. This gentleman most ably enters into my plans of seeing more of the island, and offers me letters should I go to the western side-to Carghésé, and to the agent of M. Chauton at the great forests of A@itone and Valdoniello or, if I go to Bastia, to Bocognano and other places. This may remedy my two first grievances, the absence of M. Galloni, and of the Préfet patience and quinine may bring back the Suliot to working condition. Nor do I myself neglect to take some preventive and precautionary quinine, for after the air of the high mountains, this of Ajaccio seems warm and relaxing. Writing letters filled up the rest of this day. May 6.-An early walk along the shore to the cemetery. In spite of all the beauty of colour, and the gaiety of flowers, broom, honeysuckle, and rose cystus, and of the immense luxuriance of vegetation and elegance of foliage, a grave melancholy seems to me to be ever the character of Ajaccio scenery. Those circling snow-topped hills at the head of the gulf, that long barrier line on its southern side, and the absence of much life or movement either on land or water, all contribute to this impression, and tinge the landscape, lovely as beyond doubt it is, with somewhat of the mournful. At mid-day, on calling at the Prefecture, to learn how M. Géry is going on, his daughter, a most fascinating little girl-who speaks English well, owing  been under the care of an English lady, her governess, from a child-comes into the hall to say that her father, though suffering much and unable to leave a sofa, wishes to see me. Had I expected to find the Governor of the island-of the Departement de la Corse-a formidable official, I should have been much deceived but I had previously heard of M. Géry as a person not less known for his ability and for the high positions he has filled than for the kindness of his disposition and for the charm of his conversation. He enters with warmth into all the details concerning that portion of the island I have already seen, sketches out a second and third tour for me, promises me abundance of letters to places guiltless of inns, and finally invites me to dine at the Prefecture to-morrow. Thus, I return to the hotel with a new source of thanks to M. Merimée, whose good-nature procured me an introduction of such value. In the course of to-day Miss C. returns from her southern trip to Sarténé and Bonifacio, and triumphs, though far from ill-naturedly, at the fulfilment of her predictions about my carriage. We quite agree about the fine qualities of the scenery we have both visited Miss C. has been up to Zicavo, and through the forests of Marmano and Sorba, whereas, although I have not seen these, I have been to Bavella, which she has not, and I steadfastly declare that, Bavella unseen, she has seen nothing-less than nothing. G.'s fever is not much better to-day but as I have long been an expert fever-doctor, I believe that two or three days will bring him round. Miss C. and Dr. R. stop their ears when I venture to speak of fever yet sickness is a fact, and there are moments when my servant's illness, added to the difficulty I find in procuring another carriage and horses for my next start, makes a gloomy side to the picture, and half inclines me to return by next Saturday's boat to Nice, leaving the remainder of Corsica to be portrayed in that far off inde@finite time when I may wind up my journeys in Crete, Palestine, Syria, and other only-in-part-visited places. May 7.-All the morning is rainy-propitious time for letter-writing-and the day is passed in making calls, and in searching for a carriage and horses, c., till at 6 P.M. dining at the Prefecture adds another to the pleasant memories already afforded me by Corsica. Miss C. was there, as well as several other persons, and the excellence of M. le Préfet's table is as distinguished as the friendly and social character of the party and the pleasant conversation of the guests. Afterwards, other persons, mostly in official positions, came in, and a collection of photographs of the chief or most interesting places of Corsica was exhibited. Some of these photographs were of the finest I have seen but it is not easy to procure copies of them, as only three perfect sets, for the Emperor, Prince Napoleon, and the Préfet, were struck off,  the photographer, owing to some pique, withdrew the whole from public circulation. May 8.-The mountains here have taken to invisible ways, and refuse to appear. The search for a carriage continues, and Giovanni Carburo the Vaudois, who lets out vehicles, and is recommended by Miss C., shows me, besides other traps heavier and more expensive, a sort of double-seated car for two horses, which I may have for seventeen francs a day, and am to try later in the morning. It proves, however, far too shaky, and is rejected, so that the matter of vehicles is once more in nubibus. Passed the afternoon on the hill near the grotto drawing cactus the warbling of nightingales is truly delightful, till gendarme target practice, with infantry. bugling and drumming commence-then The nightingale said, ' I have sung many songs, But never' --will I sing any more if this horrid hubbub continues-and thenceforth the voices of birds were hushed. My work, too, is stopped by rain, and the landscape painter becomes indisposed for further Corsican travel, and resolves at length to leave further decision till to-morrow. One thing is certain, that a good trap and horses are a sine quâ non if I am to visit the rest of the island.  says the Suliot, whose fever is departing- decide by dreaming, Sir. In the evening the pleasant M. Lambert, who has many remembrances of Zante and Cerigo, Milo and Cyprus, brings a letter of introduction which he has written for me to a friend at Casabianda but I think it will be best to visit all the western side of Corsica first, and M. Lambert promises letters to-morrow, should I procure a carriage, to facilitate my visit to the great forests, where, without some personal recommendation, little can be done. If I succeed in completing my tours in the west of the island I can proceed across it to Bastia, and go back to Nice from that port, if time does not allow of a third visit to Ajaccio. May 9.-The morning is hot and misty, and the mountains hidden in clouds prophetic of rain. The first thing to be attended to to-day is an examination of such carriages as are on hire, as I have finally resolved to go if possible to the great forests of Aitone and Valdoniello, and Vico, a tour which I hear can be very well managed in a week, the longest space of time I can give to it. And after looking at several vehicles, all more or less unsuitable, and the owners of which manifest a great carelessness as to whether they are employed or not, I hire the only one left, belonging to the Vaudois Jean, a roomy, good trap, which I am to have at twenty francs a day, all expenses of the driver  I call on M. Lambert, who, in spite of all his busy occupation, has found time to write a note to the Chef de Gendarmerie at Carghésé. M. Chauton, the lessee of part of the great government forest of Valdoniello, who has an establishment both there and near the coast at Porto, is unluckily away from Ajaccio at present, but, says M. Lambert, a nephew of one of the gendarmes at Carghésé is M. Chauton's agent at Porto, and will send me on to the upper station. At 9 A.M. Jean Vaudois comes to see that all is in order for my new start the ponies seem good and the carriage comfortable, the luggage well fastened behind and carefully covered, only, the box-seat being now filled up with sacks of barley-an improvement which Miss C. does not fail to remark, and which at least indicates more care for the horses than was shown by swearing Peter-my man has to sit inside. The new driver is a Corsican youth named Domenico, of Napoleonic and grave aspect, and the party is completed by a small spotty dog of amiable and watchful deportment, called Flora, who examines the carriage and luggage with an evident expression of certainty that she is the head and moving spring of the whole arrangement. Miss C., who is looking out of Ottavi's window, begs me to send word as to progress or success, and as we set off, Giovanni Vaudois suggests that if I do not care to go as far as Carghésé to-night I may sleep at Sagona. The way lies through Ajaccio and past the Villa Bacciocchi as far as the southern road to Sarténé and Bonifacio, when the highway to Corte and Bastia is followed to the fifth kilomètre, there the road to Vico strikes off to the left, and shortly beyond it another way to that place leads on the right hand through Sari. Almost up to the commencement of the Vico road, where a fine many-arched aqueduct is a picturesque addition to the landscape, the neighbourhood of Ajaccio is a continued garden of cherry and mulberry plantations, but afterwards such cultivation becomes more rare as the road winds away among pleasant, rounded, low hills, where the familiar fern, white blossomed cystus, and asphodel, gradually take the place of fruit trees and corn-fields. The great precipitous heights which show so finely from the end of the Gulf of Ajaccio are passed on the right as you climb a hill range, and after a dip down to a green valley, a long and steep ascent follows to Bocca San Sebastiano, which is reached at noon, the road thither being carried very high along the side of the lofty hills, which are cultivated in patches, and not remarkable for beauty of form. At the Bocca, or summit, where there is a single roadside house, nothing is to be seen to-day, owing to the thick misty weather, except a vast indication of mountains mostly hidden by rolling clouds, and it seems to me that even had the landscape been visible, its extent would have been too great to allow of its being drawn as a whole. Lower down, however, on the other side of the pass, the Gulf of Sagona, with abundance of those long points and capes  so characteristic of Corsican west coast scenery, would have been worth a halt had the morning been fine on one of these promontories Carghésé, already seen from the sea on April 9, is pointed out. The winding descent towards the gulf from Bocca San Sebastiano is beautiful, all the more so from some showers of rain and effects of cloud shadows. The village of Calcatoggio stands above the road, and from it all is vineyard and garden, fig, pear, and cherry orchard, nearly down to the sea, where against the rocks of white granite that border the little bay of Liscia, the quiet waves beat lazily along the lonely shore.54 Here, 1.1 5 P.M., about the twenty-ninth kilomètre from Ajaccio, at a small wayside house, is to be the mid-day halt for two hours, for the not over-clean Repos des Voyageurs, as the hut is labelled, is avoided for a spot more fitted for drawing and breakfast among the boulders and cystus-growth a little way up the hill, whence the view of the gulf, widespread towards the west, is grand and solitary. Beyond the little bay of Liscia and the tower-crowned promontory on its northern side, whence Carghésé is now clearly seen, the road descends into the valley or small plain of the river Liamone, a considerable stream, flowing from the western base of Monte Rotondo and the neighbourhood of Guagno.55 The valley of the Liamone is a level of green corn as far as eye can see to the foot of the hills and the river, crossed by a good bridge, reaches the sea through marshes gay with yellow iris. Beyond it the road leads through what resemble cuttings of wrinkled cretaceous rock, crowned with wind-bent lentisk or schinos, now and then passing quiet coves of pure sand edged with granite rocks, whence you look down on to the wide solemn gulf beyond, till one more Genoese tower is left behind, and Sagona, the port of Vico, is reached at 4 P.M.56 Whatever may have been the condition of this place in the days when it was the seat of a bishopric, and possessed a cathedral, few traces of its former state remain now, some six or eight square buildings, like warehouses, and one boat on the bay, being all its present signs of life.  tosaying, Calcatoggio, Calcatoggio, Mala cena e peggio alloggio ! Calcatoggio, travellers' curse, Supper bad and lodging worse ! Galle@tti. 55 Between Arbori, a village of 400 inhabitants, and the river of Liamone, stood the castle of the illustrious Jean Paul de Leca. This historic building, placed on a rock, still preserves its cisterns and drawbridge.-@Valery, i., p. 112. One has to ford the River Liamone, a torrent, c.-@Valery, i., p. 108. 56 The Gulf of Sagona is magnificent. Formerly, the town was splendid, and there are still some remains of the palace and of the ancient cathedral, of which the sacristy still exists, and serves as a shelter to peasants.-@Valery, i., p. 107. I looked for some trace of the ruins of the ancient town of Sagona, but in vain-all has disappeared from the soil, and the small ruined church which exists belongs to the middle ages. Nevertheless, the town of Sagona did flourish at the end of this fine gulf, and though it has long ceased to exist, it always preserved the title of the episcopal city of the island until 1801, when the whole of Corsica was included in a single bishopric.-Galletti, p. 136.  now a winding road, follows the shore from point to point, till it climbs the last hills before you reach the promontory of the Greek colony. Here cultivation increases, and the view over the broad placid gulf of Sagona is very fine so I send on Domenico to the village hotel, and stop for an hour to draw. The hills around, of no great height, are well formed, and covered with corn and olive growth quite to the sea. Over all this Carghésé coast broods a kind of lonely classic grandeur, which the usual scarcity of life in Corsica gives full leisure for contemplating-the promontory and little bay, with coves of white sand, and curving lines of creamy spray, then the broad gulf, and beyond that, the long line of hills forming the northern side of the gulf of Ajaccio, all barred with long white clouds the scornful crags, at half their height throughout. Carghésé, which you come upon all at once by a sudden turn of the road, is a larger place than I had expected to see, and is built with regular streets at right angles to each other. Several scattered houses, among them the hotel and the old Greek church are by the side of the high road, which here crosses the cape of Carghésé but the chief part of the village stands lower down, facing the south the Latin church, and a second Greek building, large and unfinished, are in the farther part of the settlement, nearer the end of the promontory, and the whole forms a singular and picturesque scene, greatly interesting to me from what I had heard of the migration of these Greek settlers from the Morea, and of the persecution which had at one time made their adopted land little less undesirable than their own. 57 I had told my Suliot servant not to speak Greek at first, by way of having some merriment when our knowledge of their language came to be suddenly known but this plan fell through by my own inattention for from a window of one of the first houses I pass, there looks out a Greek priest with a venerable beard and the well-known cap, who makes me a bow and waves his hand, to which salute I unthinkingly reply,  morning ! and naturally  ! do you speak Romaic ? for, in the days when these Greeks came to Corsica,  unknown as such.h agreeable village, built regularly in an amphitheatrical form above the sea, and planted with fine mulberry trees. It was founded by M. de Marboeuf, and peopled by the Greek colony which had, about 1676, sought refuge in Corsica. In this village of 600 souls they speak at once good Greek, Italian, and French. The chief of the colony was called Constantin Stephanópoulos some of his descendants still inhabit Carghésé and Ajaccio, and rank among the first families of the island. The fugitive Greeks found in a foreign land, from their jealous neighbours the mountaineers of Niolo and the labourers of Vico, somewhat of the violent oppression and spoliation which they would have had to encounter in their own country. Twice they were compelled to forsake Carghésé, in order to seek an asylum in Ajaccio, and in 1814 they again lost a part of their property. These Greeks, independently of their language, have retained their habits and religious rites but the national costume which they had formerly preserved has disappeared, and the trace of their Greek origin is found alone in their eyes and countenances. The contrast of Greek civilisation, careful, industrious, and active, by the side of the Corsican roughness and indifference,  homely and tolerably comfortable second-floor apartment, with a certain appearance of cleanliness about its staircase and rooms, the latter having dark raftered ceilings an elderly woman and her very good-looking daughter, with a second young woman, also pretty, receives me, and are greatly amused and pleased by my speaking Greek, which the landlady both understands and speaks well of the two young damsels one only knew the commonest Romaic words, and the other none at all, for, said the daughter, questa e Franca-she is a Frank. After a visit from the long-bearded Papa who had spoken to me from the window, and who promises to come in again in the evening, there is still time for a ramble in the village, the right-angled streets of which, and an air of care and cleanliness about the houses, give it a novel interest to a Corsican tourist. All round the village the Cactus opuntia is largely grown, and as says Valery there is a briskness and order here contrasting not a little with the apathy I had seen in other parts of the island. It was very amusing to talk Romaic with the people here and there-that is, with the elders, for they alone seemed to understand it one woman at a fountain spoke as if an Athenian, and with characteristic Greek curiosity inquired,  did your honour come here ? On returning to the hotel an excellent dinner was provided-soup, a dish of pilaf the first seen in Corsica , roast lamb, c., and very tolerable wine, but the priest, who came to pay his promised visit, brought a bottle of far better quality. The colony, according to him, came to Corsica under Genoese protection, about 1626, and consisted of 600 or 700 Greeks from Vittolo in Maina, and he says that now the population of the village is 1,200, but much crossed by marriage with the islanders, and that even some Corsicans by descent are counted in that number. He describes the site of Paomia-the first settlement of these Spartan Moreotes, and burned some thirty years after their coming-as being distant about an hour's walk from here. After its destruction the colonies took refuge in Ajaccio for fifty years. They preserve their old ritual, but are all united Greeks, or, in other words, Papists. The priests, he says, may marry, and at first did so, but do not now. Long since they have disused all national costume, and very generally the use of the Greek language, which intermarriage and the settling of the islanders amongst them are fast obliterating, and it is evident that they seek to separate themselves as little as possible from Corsicans. Thus, in two or three more generations their family names will be the only remaining proof of their nationality. My acquaintance, Papa Michele, seems to have been superseded, unjustly, according to his own account, by the Bishop of  surrounded as it is by some of the most barbarous villages in the island. Nevertheless, for some years past these refugees form alliances with the indigenous families, and Corsican blood even begins to preponderate.-@Valery, i., p. 104.  given his place to a curate from the Piana de' Greci, in Sicily. Perhaps, says he, the Préfet may one day do me  is in my opinion my father, and the first of men@. 58 May 10.-At 5 A.M., cof@fee-au-tumbler having been obligingly brought at  happened a remarkable event, which was the establishment of a colony of Greeks in Corsica.@.@. The Turks having got possession of Candia in 1669, came by sea, and became masters of Maina, and reduced the unfortunate posterity of the Spartans to a state little better than slavery. But among those who dwelt at Porto Vitilo were some who, despairing to see any change in their dejected country, came to the resolution of abandoning it altogether, and of seeking an establishment somewhere else. In 1676, about 1,000 souls left Greece, the family of Stefanopoli conducting the whole enterprise, and they arrived at Genoa in January, 1677, and remained till March.@.@.@. They also brought with them some religious of the order of St. Basil, the only order in their church, who established a convent in a wild and romantic valley. But the Genoese did not approve of these fathers, and in a short time their convent was shut up. The Greeks found themselves very easy and happy for a good many years. By their industry and activity they beautified and enriched their possessions, and built very good houses, doing everything with a taste altogether new in Corsica. But their neighbours, the natives of the island, did not live in great harmony with them. Perhaps in this envy may have had some share for their vines and their olives, their herds and their flocks, were, by care and skill, much superior to those of the Corsicans. But, besides, the islanders looked upon the Greeks as auxiliaries of the Genoese, to whom indeed they, from time to time, swore fidelity, and were ever ready to give their assistance. They also knew that the Greeks were well supplied with arms, and therefore there were frequent skirmishes between them and the peasants of the province of Vico, of which their territories had formerly made a part and in the year 1729, when the nation rose against the Genoese, the Greeks were seriously attacked and many a desperate action they fought with great bravery. The Genoese formed three regular companies of them, to whom they gave pay, and they were always employed in the most difficult enterprises. In particular, they were detached to attempt taking the castle of Corte from the patriots on which occasion they were sorely defeated, and a great number of them were killed. After various struggles the Greeks were forced to leave their possessions, and retire to Ajaccio, where they now support themselves tolerably by their labour. This colony has been sober, virtuous, and industrious and if they have acted in a hostile manner against the nation, it was from a good principle, from the fidelity which they owed to the republic that had granted them an asylum, which fidelity they would ever have preserved had not the republic included them in the general oppression. I must observe of this colony, that it hath had the honour of producing an excellent physician, Signor Giovanni Stefanopoli, the first who hath had the wisdom and the spirit to bring inoculation into Corsica, by which he preserves multitudes of lives, and may, therefore, be justly reckoned a distinguished benefactor.-Boswell, pp. 88-90. The emigration of Moreote Greeks to Corsica took place on October 3, 1675, an@d the emigrants, 730 in number, arrived at Genoa in January, 1675. Jean Stephanópoli, when the Laconians had decided on leaving Greece, had previously visited Sicily in order to find some spot whereon to settle beyond the power of the Mussulman but ultimately had been permitted by the Genoese republic to choose a site in Corsica. A second emigration, consisting of 400 persons, left the Morea soon after the first, but were overtaken by the Turkish fleet, and massacred. The treaty signed at Genoa, January 18, 1676, assured the colony the possession of Paomia on the following conditions -Article I.-The emigrants must recognise the Roman pontiff as spiritual chief, and they must profess the Greek rites as they are exercised in the pontifical states. 2.@-The bishops and other ecclesiastics of the colony must receive their investiture from the Holy See. 3.-They oblige themselves to construct on their arrival at Paomia churches and dwellings for their own use, on condition of recognising the sovereignty of the Most Serene Republic, to which they must swear fidelity and they engage to serve it by land or sea, as it may require them to do, and also to pay exactly every established tax. 4.-The colonists must be subordinate to the authority of the Latin bishop of the diocese. 5.-The domains of Paomia, Rovida, and Salogna, which the Republic gives up, à titre emphyteotique, must be divided between the different colonists the lot of each at his decease must be equally subdivided between his children without distinction of sex  still earlier hour, I am busy drawing the village of the Mainotes from a height on its east side, whence the whole locality is visible, besides a broad expanse of Mediterranean but thick mists cover all the farther distance, and at times descend even lower than the little chapel close above the village. Below me are groves of fruit trees, resounding with hundreds of nightingales, and looking either towards the shore, or inland to the hills, all the land is cultivated, and unites with clouds above and cloud shadows far away on the sea, to make a pretty picture enough. See Plate 16. Descending, I draw on the other side of the village till 10.30. There is a look of cheerfulness about Carghésé not observable in any of the places I have hitherto seen in Corsica the scattered and rural Grosseto the wooded and secluded Olmeto Sarténé, the grand and solemn Bonifacio, walled and isolated Porto Vecchio, the decayed all have their special characteristic, but among them cheerfulness is not. Here, on the contrary, the entire open@ness of the position of the village is in itself a cheery feature standing, as it does, away from rocks or trees, or overhanging height, at the end of a pro@montory with sea on all sides but one, so that from the southern face of the @of  must return to the Republic. 7.-It is permitted to the colonists to build stoves and mills to possess cattle of all kinds and to have arms, with the exception of those the carriage of which is prohibited. 8.-They may exercise commerce freely, on condition of paying patente. 9.-They may arm rebels against the Turks, but only under the flag of the Republic. 10.-The government of Genoa engages to furnish the means of transport from Genoa to Paomia gratuitously but the colonists must repay the Republic the sum of 1,000 piastres which has been advanced, either for the purpose of defraying the expenses of the captain of the vessel in which they came from Greece, or for that of providing for their maintenance before their departure for Corsica. 11.-The Republic of Genoa engages to maintain at its own charge an ecclesiastic knowing the literal Greek language to instruct the children of the colony, in order to preserve in it the language and the Graeco-Catholic rite and further, binds itself to maintain at its own expense two pupils at the Propaganda Fide at Rome. The colony arrrived in Corsica, March 14, 1676. Among the colonists was a bishop named Parthenius, but the Republic of Genoa ruled that no future bishop should replace him after his death, and that the young Greek ecclesiastics should thenceforth receive ordination at the hands of the Graeco-Catholic bishop residing at Rome. The Greek colony became extremely flourishing, but its happiness only lasted from 1676 to 1729, the period when the Corsican revolution against Genoa burst out in the Terra de' Communi, and which continued down to 1769. In these circumstances, the Greeks, out of gratitude to the Genoese Government, took no part in the revolution, and when the adjoining villages claimed their arms they refused to give them up, and assumed an attitude of defence then they were accused as partisans of the Genoese, and assailed on every side, their lands were devastated, their flocks driven away or destroyed. The Genoese government being no longer in a position to help the Greeks, it counselled them to abandon Paomia, and to take refuge in Ajaccio and the Greeks, having sent their families thither in boats, endeavoured for some time longer to defend themselves, but, harassed on all sides, they were soon reduced to the cruel necessity of forsaking their villages, and, with great difficulty, to save themselves in the town of Ajaccio. This event happened in the month of April, 1731. Transplanted to that city, they were allowed, for the exercise of their worship a chapel situated not far from Ajaccio, named La Madonna del Carmine, which was thenceforth called La Capella de' Greci. Up to this time they had preserved their national dress, but a sanguinary feud between them and the inhabitants of Mezzana led them to adopt the same  you overlook the whole settlement at once. The light colour of the stone of which the houses are built, in regular lines, and the gardens that surround many of them, have none of the usual gloomy Corsican aspect, and there is a novelty in the wide extent of the Indian fig or cactus which stretches below the village on the north side, and along the edge of which pigs are tied to stakes, leading a life of order and propriety, instead of dirtily rambling all over the settlement. Many a trim village scene of industrious and lively Greece is recalled by Carghésé. And had the shores of the opposite side of the Gulf of Sagona been clear, the view looking that way must needs be of great beauty the indentations of the coast line and the lower hills show thus much, though the higher summits are just now hopelessly hidden by  A.M.-Return to the inn, passing the large building which is so con@spicuous in all the views of Carghésé, and which they tell me is the new Greek church it is a mere shell, standing unfinished for want of funds, and I suppose is the same edifice towards the completion of which M. Valery was so amusingly entreated to subscribe in 1835. The original chapel used by  whenever they saw any one dressed as a Greek, killed him without mercy. And by this time the poor Greeks had discovered that want of pity and bloodthirstiness are not more characteristic of the worshippers of Mahomet than of those who adore Christ. During the time the Greeks lived in the town of Ajaccio they contributed greatly to the improvement of the cultivation of the beautiful territories which that city possesses and the Genoese government also gained by them in their supplying the republic with many good soldiers. The Germans who came to Corsica in aid of the Genoese republic could not inspire the Greeks with sufficient confidence to induce them to return to their possessions in Paomia, and hardly had the imperialists quitted the island than new troubles broke out. It was then that Genoa applied to France as mediator. France, become mistress of Corsica in 1769, resolved at once to reinstate the Greek colony in its former position but by this time all the dwellings were utterly destroyed, and their lands, once so well cultivated, had again resumed their natural savage appearance. Thus, after forty-three years of exile, they were re-established, A. D. 1774, in a spot west of Paomia, and a new domain was given to them on the promontory named Pontiglione, which separates the Gulf of Sagona from that of Pero, and this new establishment was called Carghésé, and raised to a marquisate under the protection of the Count de Marboeuf. This village or little town is placed like an amphi@theatre above the sea-shore erected at the expense of the French government, all the houses were from the first built of the same height, and arranged in streets at right angles. The Count de Marboeuf caused a fine castle to be raised at Carghésé, and often went there to pass some days in admiring the progress and industry of the Greeks. The colonists continued to enjoy peace till the commencement of the French revolution. At that period the ancient animosities of the surrounding villagers again burst forth, war soon followed, and the Greeks, unable to offer resistance, were again obliged to abandon Carghésé, a great part of which was burned, and the castle of Count de Marboeuf was destroyed. The colonists re-entered the town of Ajaccio reduced to the utmost misery. It was then that several families allied themselves with Corsicans, and when order was restored, and the Greeks were able to return to their possessions, many of them preferred to remain in the town of Ajaccio. Since that period 1814 tranquillity has not been disturbed alliances with the islanders have become more and more frequent the Corsican dialect is even spoken by all the Greeks, though they have always preserved their own language among themselves. The marriages of Corsicans and Greeks have made it necessary in our own time to erect two new churches at Carghésé, one consecrated to the Latin rite, the other to that of the United Greek Catholics.-Galletti, pp. 131-136.,  Greeks stands on the main road. I could linger willingly in Carghésé for two or three days, but, according to the scale which my limited stay in Corsica compels me to adopt, more than this one morning cannot be spared for the Mainote village, and I shall reach my next halting-place, La Piana, this evening. Meanwhile the people of the inn tell me some of the names of the Carghésé families-Stephanopoulos, Papaláki, Pietroláki, Dhrimaláki, Fran@goláki, Zannitáki the priest is Michele Mendouráki and, oddly enough, that of the landlord of the hotel Polyméros Korfiótti. After breakfast, which, though very good, was, excepting its conclusion of roast lamb, quite marine in its character-to wit, lobster soup, fried mullet, lobster boiled, and lobster salad-I went out to see the Greek church, so called it is very small, and differing only from similar places of worship, in its having a crucifix above the altar a fact sufficiently demonstrating that the Catholic had superseded the Orthodox in the religious system of Carghésé. After this there was a visit to pay, for on my arrival last night I had sent M. Lambert's letter to the Chef de gendarmerie, who had called, begging I would take coffee with him next day, when he would give me a letter to the agent of M. Chauton, at the forest of Valdoniello and so, after some very good tumbler-coffee and biscuits, in the neat clean room of M. Ceccaldi and his colleague, whose daughter is married to the agent at Porto, I gained much information as to my onward route. From Carghésé to La Piana, they say are twenty kilomètres, and beyond it twelve more to Porto, along a coast road cited as wonderful for precipices and fine scenery from Porto up to the mountain to Evisa are twenty kilomètres farther but as to the forests higher up my informants are not sure-seven or eight kilomètres of a bad and steep road they believe to be about the distance. From Evisa to Vico there are twenty kilomètres, and thence down to Sagona on the main Ajaccio road other fourteen. At Evisa they recommend the Maison Carrara as a halting-place. The trap is ordered at 2.30 P.M., so there is yet time to add somewhat to my sketch of the distant mountains, which are gradually clearing. Looking across the Gulf of Sagona, and away from the wide western sea, how clearly much of the history of Corsica is explained of days when the people in its valleys, closed in by their own barrier mountain walls-hardly even in much communication with that next to them, and quite divided from the rest of the island-spent their energies in quarrels with their neighbours. Either there is little curiosity or much good breeding in Carghésé, for no one comes near or otherwise molests me while drawing, which is as pleasant as singular. Children in Corsica, as far as I have seen, are a race unique for good behaviour no throwing of stones, as at Naples or in Greece no shouting or teasing, and yet never is there any sign of timidity in fact, for the sake of their quiet intelligence, I have already quite forgiven all Corsican children their habits of swarming up Ajaccio  Mendoúrias Michele Stephanopoulos comes to pay me a parting visit, and writes me down a Greek song from memory, promising me others if I will send him some from Fauriel's book at present I can only repeat him the single verse of one sent me by M.  says that when M. Merimée was here, about 1843, a Greek costume, now quite disused, was pretty generally, worn by the elder women. My clerical acquaintance imputes many changes at Carghésé to a fuggasco Latin priest from Syra, in the time of Leo XII. Papa Michele is not, however, wholly to be relied on, for in maintaining that their religious ritual is unaltered, he declares that the Athanasian Creed is used in the Orthodox Oriental churches, which most certainly and happily is not the case. He also says there exists a MS., date 1650, written by one of their priests, detailing all their early tribulations, but does not inform me where it is.59 2.45 P.M.-Flora, Domenico, and Co. are ready, and so farewell to the Greek colony of Carghésé a wind is rising, and a clearing of all hill-tops ensues. Soon, leaving the shore of the little Gulf di Pero and that of Chiomi, the  adecipher, but a friend thus writes to me on sending me back the old song with a translation, By the help of a magnifying-glass I have leapt over the wall of illegibility, though the first line cannot be made out. I take it to be some old refrain like ' The leaves grow rarely,' or ' The birk blows bonny,' c. of a Scotch ballad. -E. L.  vessel, and a Turkish galley, And they took a fine young man, a fine soldier. He had no mother to weep for him, no lady to grieve for him. He had only a love far away in a foreign land. And she, when she had heard of it, and listened to it, She put her shoes on her feet, and her florins in her girdle, And took the road, the road, the way trodden in a single path. Among other notices of Corsica which M. Prosper Merimée most kindly sent me before I left Cannes is one relating to Carghésé, in which he says, I was struck with their pronunciation, which is, I am told, much like that of the Cretans. For instance they would pronounce @λαγήνɩ as a Frenchman would lajini, χέρɩ as  κεΦ'@αλη as tchefáli. I remember one of their songs, a very foolish one, that will give you, perhaps, an idea of their  says, the pronunciation of the Carghésé Greeks is precisely like that of the natives of Crete, in which island I spent some months in 1864.-E. L.  the road runs inland among pleasant green fields, up a bright vale joyous with corn there are poplars by a stream, dazzling yellow blooming rape, and eastward a wall of mountains at the valley head, with corn everywhere, up to the very tops of the nearer hills. But as the way begins to wind up a long and steep ascent in a narrowing gorge, the well-known maquis encroaches gradually on the merry food-fields, gay with sunlight, and striped with cloud shades-for A light wind blew from the gates of the sun, And waves of shadow went over the corn. 4.20.-Beautiful views of the far-away Carghésé promontory and a clear fountain are good excuses for five minutes' rest. Henceforth the road is tolerably level, as leaving the valley of Chiomi it takes a more northerly direction, parallel to the craggy-fronted barriers, towards which I have been climbing, not without observing the good driving of the new Jehu Domenico, and the eminent qualities of his two ponies. Coasting the mountains, as it were, the head of another seaward valley is passed, woodier and more beautiful than the last, and with more picturesque mountain outlines then succeed bosky ilex-woods at intervals, and some enclosures of cherry trees, while not unfrequently a couple of red-legged partridges trot leisurely across the road. Shortly the ridge terminating in Capo Rosso is crossed, and at a sharp turn of the road, a vast and striking picture of mountain, cliff, sea, and the village of La Piana, starts suddenly, as it were, into life never again shall I say, as I have said more than once, that there is no remarkable coast scenery in Corsica, for, doubtless, this may claim comparison with that of most countries for grandeur. Indeed, I cannot remember any view of the kind so magnificent, except that of Assos in Cephalonia and the coast near@ Amalfi, but in both those places a high snowy range like that of the Corsican Alps is wanting. Below that silver range of peaks, the great heights opposite are, at this hour, covered with the loveliest velvety gray-green, furrowed and fretted with infinite lines, and beautifully mysterious with floating clouds and misty scumblings in the middle distance is a line of pink granite or porphyry rocks, and nearer still a crest of immense crags above the village of La Piana, in itself more picturesque than most I have seen in Corsica placed among slopes of green gardens and groups of chesnut trees, and looking seaward to a stretch of exceedingly grand coast cliffs, running, from what I suppose is the bay or gulf of Porto, to Punt 'alla Scopa and Rossa. See Plate 17. Sending on Flora and Co., I worked hard till 6.30 P.M. to get a drawing of this scene-a task that seemed to have no end, as higher snow peaks were suddenly unfolded from wreaths of cloud, and the crimsoning lights and purple shades on the mountains rapidly varied as the sun  Fiscaiola. The ascent to Piana is horribly steep. Piana, a pretty village of 700 souls, well situated and modern-for the fear of the Barbary corsairs @@@@ 7.15.-Reach La Piana, a pleasant looking country village, loftily placed amid this glorious scenery, and possessing a Piazza or Place, where Domenico is waiting to point out the hotel, a little house with ladder-staircases, cleaner than usual, leading to two tiny rooms unexpectedly snug and clean. The landlord, with that obliging manner and homely good breeding so constantly observable in this island, after a short apology for our poor and rustic dwelling, where you must not expect much, prepares the little table for dinner, which is served up by a bustling country girl and in this remote village inn, where the slenderest accommodation might have been looked for not only were the clean cloth and napkins and silver spoons such as you might expect at town hotels, but the fare was all good, and well cooked. Corsican country inns are, it is evident, surprisingly satisfactory by comparison with those of the towns. The short journey of to-day, as well as the morning passed at Carghésé, have left plenty of pleasant memories and the air here is so fresh and bracing that G., who, thanks to quinine, has had no fresh attack of fever, will now I think escape that enemy. Altogether this second fytte of Corsican travel seems to have commenced prosperously.  become a place of commerce, were there any road from Fiscaiola. In the neigbourhood of La Piana are two ruins, or rather two remembrances, which are associated with the ancient times of the island history-the castle of Guinepro, near the tower of Porto, and that of Jean Paul de Leca, the first and most indefatigable movers of that perpetual insurrection of Corsica against the Genoese, which lasted four centuries, and only closed with Paoli.@-@Valery, i., pp. 100, 101.  VI. Glorious Scenery-Leave La Piana-Extraordinary Pass among Rocks-Descent to Gulf of Porto -Finest Portion of Corsican Coast Landscape-Tower of Porto-Great Timber Works of M. Chauton-M. and Madame Ceccaldi-Superb Scenery of the Valley of Otta-@Grasshopper-Pigs-The Gorge or Pass below Evisa exceeding Grandeur of Views-Evisa-Unsatisfactory Hotel -Beautiful Scenery beyond Evisa-Great Forest of A@ïtone-Bombyx Processionaria-Vast and magnificent Forest Scenery-Variety of Trees-Reach the Forest of Valdoniello-Valley of Niolo-Enormous Pines-Descent to M. Chauton's Establishment-Pine Forest Scenery in perfection-Hospitable reception by M. and Madame Ruelle-Pleasant Evening and agreeable Company-A Day in Valdoniello-Effects of Sunrise in the Forest-Gigantic Trees-Cloud and Rain-Leave Valdoniello and return by A@ïtone to Evisa-Madame Carrara's excellent little Hotel and good Breakfast-Drive from Evisa to Cristinaccie-Great Ilex and Chesnut Woods-Domenico the Coachman's Music-Beautiful Drive ever delightful greenness of Corsican Landscape-Walks in the Valley of Vico-Great Extent of Chesnut Woods-Vico-Picturesque@ness cum Dirt-Leave Vico and descend to Sagona-Mid-day Halt by the Seaside-Flora's exemplary Conduct-Jelly-Fish and Amaryllises-Return to Ajaccio. May 11.@-@It is necessary to rise early to get an outline of the topmost peaks of the mountains above La Piana, about which the clouds soon gather and hide them but this does not prevent the good folk of the house from getting coffee ready before 4 A.M., so that I could complete a drawing near the village by 6. Sky, earth, and sea are all clear as crystal, and this view of La Piana and the west coast of Corsica is alone worth coming a long way to see. Leaving G. to pay, and to follow with Flora and Co., I take leave of the tidy and obliging people at the little hotel, and walk on alone. And shortly are reached the great precipices that form so prominent a part of the view I had drawn of La Piana, standing apparently immediately behind the village, but in reality distant some half-mile, sloping down in jagged and dreadful array to the sea. See Plate 18. What beautiful variety of form and colouring in these granite-or are they porphyry ?-pillars and crags, so brilliant and gay in comparison with the sober pallid hues of limestone rocks ! The carriage road-a very good one, and with a parapet throughout on the side towards the sea-is cut for a considerable distance through the heart of these crags and peaks, along the edge of this savage coast, parts of which are truly splendid. Groups of lofty spires, like cypresses turned into stone, shoot up from the shadowy depths of terrible abysses, or overhang the highway, in one place half-blocked up by a mass lately fallen from the heights above, and as you wind among these strange and wild pinnacles, you look between their clusters of rugged columns to the placid gulf of Porto and the beautiful hill forms on its farther side, forming a succession of pictures, framed by the grim foreground above and below you. This part of Corsican coast scenery somewhat resembles the cornice road, near Capo di Noli but though  wall is much higher there, the Piana and Porto rocks are far more beautiful on account of their colour, in some places almost rosy, and reminding me not a little of portions of Petra. At 7.30 I walk on, having made fewer memoranda than I could wish of these remarkable coast scenes, partly that there is a long day's work ahead, partly from there being more coldness than is agreeable among the shadows of this weird region of peakedness, and its gulfs of dim gloom, strange and silent as death. As in the song of the autumn garden of Alfred Tennyson, one may imagine that a spirit haunts the place, and listening earnestly, one may hear him say, Enough that you have destroyed the solitude and quiet of my mountain fastnesses by a high road pass on, nor linger among my stony palaces ! 61 Broad and beautiful views open out after the last of the precipices is passed, when the descent commences to the gulf and tower of Porto, at the entrance of the valley leading up to A@ïtone. From the great height at which this fine road is carried through the pass from La Piana, it winds snakily down the hill side to the sea, with a series of curves at the edge of precipices, by no means conveying pleasure to those who dislike giddy heights Domenico, however, drives well and steadily the whole way down, allowing time to observe some of the finest scenes I have yet seen in this island. At every turn there are new and fine combinations of beauty@-@round-headed pines rising above the dense vegetation that clothes the whole of the middle dis@tance, backed by immense mountains above, and with the deep green gulf lying like a mirror below. See Plate 19. On reaching the shore the road leaves the sea and turns up the valley of Otta, and at 8.30 A.M. I am at the timber works or establishment of M. Chauton, a large group of wooden houses, with mills, chimneys, bridges, c., pine trunks in great piles, sawpits, mules, men and women, and abundant children-a busy spot, appearing to contain more life than one has seen or. the whole route from Ajaccio, Carghésé and La Piana excepted. The buildings stand not far from the mouth of the river, a torrent which flows from the high mountains above Evisa into the Gulf of Porto, the lower part of its course being through what is now nearly a dry channel, with marshy ground on each side, unhealthy in appearance, as, according to all accounts, it is in reality. M. Martin Ceccaldi, the resident agent, to whom his cousin the gendarme at Carghésé had given me an introduction, received me with the gravity so characteristic of Corsicans, who, it seems to me, are little given to compliment or gaiety, and with his wife, an extremely pretty person, genial in manners, ask me to stay breakfast, promising a letter to M. Ruelle, M. Chauton's' I saw in Corsica. What must the pathway from Porto to La Piana have been in the days of M. Valery  agent at Valdoniello. The establishment there is about twenty-three kilomètres from Evisa, and that place is about as many from Porto, a steep up-hill drive all the way, whereby, says Domenico, I ought to start hence at mid-day. There is little employment for the pencil at Porto besides the Genoese tower at the mouth of the valley and a sketch of the bridge and mountains moreover, there was a sensation of feverish damp, which instinctively led me to prefer sitting in M. Ceccaldi's house. Within-doors, however, time passed pleasantly, not only in discussing a breakfast doubly welcome from its excellence and from the kindliness of my hosts, but in conversation on various subj@ects. Much is said about the Hon. Mrs. A. B., who, with the Duc de B. and others, have lately been here her beauty seems to have  my host and hostess with extreme admiration. We discourse, too, on the goodness of Corsican roads on the perfect security now existing in all parts of the island and of the contrast. in this respect between its present condition and that of even thirty years ago of Otta, the native village of M. Ceccaldi, a place four kilomètres ahead, and which I am to observe as I go up to the forests of the fertile subject of Vendetta and of how Ceccaldi's own father was assassinated at Otta, because, when maire, he had asked a doctor to examine the hands of a man who had been drawn as a conscript, but who shammed having lame fingers of silkworms, and of how Madame Ceccaldi, when at school, kept so many with the élèves at Ajaccio, that they were able to buy an harmonium with the proceeds of the silk and of the wrongs inflicted on Corsica by the Genoese c. All this, playing withal with little Leo, the elder of two small Ceccaldi children, passed the morning  says Giorgio, having volunteered that this house  the same as an inn, I endeavour to settle the account, but find I have made a mistake, and that I can nowise induce my entertainer to accept any money. Nor can I without difficulty find an opportunity of giving a trifling sum to the female servant, whose face speaks bitterly of fever suffered, and reminds me of many I used to see in days of Pontine Marsh malarious wanderings. So, Flora and Co. being ready, I promise to send a Book of Nonsense to Leo, and take leave of my good hosts at 11.30, with a pleasant recollection of this  Recrossing the torrent by the bridge I had passed in coming from La Piana, the road leads up the great valley which ascends towards the heights of Mount Artica, and the lofty ridges west of the Niolo, keeping near the bed of the stream where masses of granite are worn by the water into most  The north side of this vast gorge, on which lies the property of the village of Otta, is much cultivated, olives, corn, and vineyards hanging on its steep terraced declivities62 on the opposite side of the pass, that along which the route forestière is carried, another and wilder world prevails depths and groves of chesnuts, now full of young leaf in all the green beauty of spring, and waving above fern and foxglove and patches of cyclamen, where here and there a milky-belled amaryllis blew. As you proceed to the ascent, the views into the heart of the great mountains through some of the lateral openings from this valley of Otta are exceedingly remarkable, the more that the lower part of the gorge is not particularly distinguished from many similar fine mountain scenes some of these bursts of stupendously fine landscapes higher in the  prevent them from straying in garden or vineyard, are furnished with an extraordinary apparatus of two long pieces of wood fastened above and below their heads, and having the appearance of huge horns at a distance they look like vast grasshoppers.-E. L.  in the pass are really startling, and unlike any I have seen elsewhere. Huge pyramidal crags stand above you, isolated, and rising from rich green groves of great chesnut trees their riven peaks and towering masses magnified by floating mists, pierce the clear sky, and it is difficult to exaggerate the extra@ordinary grandeur of their effect, though varied as they are every moment by passing clouds at times hiding or displaying them, it is not easy to seize distinct records of such fleeting magic day-dreams. See Plate 20. The whole pass is thickly covered with wood, chesnut, and ilex, and no part of  romantic than about the fourth kilomètre, where the village of Otta is seen perched up on the opposite side of the gorge, below tremendous heights, which seem to threaten it with destruction, especially one enormous mass of rock poised, apparently, immediately above the  in with immense heights and a terrible wildness of dusky gray granite and depths of  and seems perpetually to, threaten the village below. There are legends told regarding this great rock, and it is said that formerly the superstitious inhabitants went at certain times of the year to tie the huge mass with cords, and sprinkle it with oil, that it might thus be prevented from falling on the village.-Galletti, p. 130.  scenes, the great scale of their proportions hardly allow them to be favourably represented. 3 P.M., the road skirts hollows in the hill side, and runs disagreeably by the edge of parapetless precipices, then crosses to the opposite face of the valley, high up at the head of which you see Cristinaccie and other villages, while fruit gardens mark the vicinity of habitations finally, at 4, the top of the pass being nearly reached, I send on Flora and Co. to Evisa, and linger on the edge of the great gorge @gorge for the sake of getting some memoranda of its sublime scenery, here visible down the whole of the valley of Otta to the gulf of Porto. It would take, however, far longer than the half hour I can spare for it to portray the infinitesimal detail of its wild and gloomy precipices.  5.15 P.M. reach Evisa, one of the highest villages in Corsica, apparently a considerable place, stretching on the east side down to groves of chesnut  of mountains and forests. These gay mountains, detached and distinct, almost recall the hopping hills of Scripture.@.@.@. Near Evisa, on the road to Otta, is the chapel of St. Cyprien@.@.@. the altar is destroyed, and the building is now used as a cemetery for the inhabitants of Evisa.@-@Valery, i., p.  yet fully in leaf, while seaward are the great mountain crags in the valley of Otta. Although there seem to be several very tolerable houses in the village, that at the door of which Domenico is cleaning the ponies is not at all prepossessing, and betokens no pleasant night's rest. Is there no better hotel ? No, he knows of none has already placed the roba inside, and has bespoken dinner, so, as the Suliot says,  is no help for it. A room opening from the road-there is here at least no ladder-stair to complain of-seems used as a common osteria as well as kitchen and family dwelling beyond it is the tiniest of squalid chambers, in which G. with difficulty makes up my camp-bed, himself being promised a mattress on the table in the osteria when-an unknown future-that establishment may be empty. The host and his wife-he is a Milanese, who tells me he came from Italy hither on account of circonstanze many years back-are obliging, and do their best to provide a supper, though that best is very feeble. Nor did it prove to be eatable, even after a long walk one of the items, an astonishingly nasty compound of eggs, parsley, sugar, and garlic, was indeed wholly otherwise, a matter, however, soon remedied by G.'s taking the culinary department into his own hands, and turning out a dish of plain fried eggs, which, with bread and cheese and good wine, did well enough. This day, however, though not ending pleasantly as to lodgings, has its own valuable memories in the morning, those of the strange rock scenery of La Piana, and later of the pass from Porto, where the vast and sublime masses of precipitous rock made new dream landscapes at every step, with magnifi@cent alternations of light and shadow. May 12, 5 A.M.-The morning is delightfully fine and the air exquisite nor, among other good things, should an excellent tumbler of coffee be forgotten, such as one would hardly have expected to find on the top of a mountain in remote Corsica here, as else@where, the good people exhibit great anxiety to compensate for what they know to be their deficiencies. While Flora and C@o. are getting ready I discourse with Casanova, a brother of the guardiano at the forest house near the twelfth kilomètre on the Bastelica road-scene of the memorable downfall of the carriage and horses of Peter the profane-and then set off to make a drawing of Evisa, looking towards the crags of the Porto pass. Notwithstanding M. Valery's raptures, and the bondants collines de la Sainte Ecriture@-@Why hop ye so ye hills ? to which he likens this scenery, I had not found it so attractive as I had expected on entering Evisa by the west side but from the cast the view is far more beautiful, and as you go up the hill from the village the Porto crags are immensely majestic. See Vignette, page 135. Just beyond the twenty-third kilomètre, from the sea, the road-a route forestière-divides one branch to the right leads by Cristinaccie to Vico,  through the forest of Aïtone, up the great valley or basin of that name, to the ridge which separates it from the district or canton of Niolo, and then down the other side, through the forest of Valdoniello, as far as the establish@ment of M. Chauton. In a short time the skirts of the forest are reached, and as far as eye can see is a world of pines, filling up the depths of the wide vale, and clothing the sides of it far up the mountains on either hand, a space greatly exceeding the hollow of Bavella in size, but less novel and beautiful in its aspect, owing to the unbroken wall-like character of the heights here, and the absence of the detached and varied forms of rock which are the glory of the Bavella scenery.65 The trees near the entrance of the forest are not of great height, and for some distance inward are mostly more or less covered with a multitude of the bright white sacs or nests of the larvae of that remarkable insect, the Bombyx  of Corsican forests, frequently reaching to the height of from 100 to 120 feet. The branches of the Pinus lariccio are mostly confined to its top, while the trunk appears one broken column. Spread over large tracts of country, with foliage interlaced so as to be almost impervious to the sun, the pines convey the idea of a magnificent temple, the inter-columned perspective of which the traveller attempts in vain to penetrate.-Benson, p. 20. Benson gives an extract from Theophrastus on the pines of Corsica, and on the ship carrying fifty sails built of them by the Romans.@-Hist. Plant., 1. 5, c. 8, Edit. Stackhouse. The superb Lariccio pines of Corsica have not degenerated from their ancestors of two thousand years ago, when praised by Theophrastus, who observed that the pines of Latium could not be compared to them. The forests of Corsica, to the number of forty or fifty, of which two only are turned to account, would supply more than the wants of our navy. The Genoese, wiser than we, imported all their wood from Corsica, and this explains the importance they attached to possessing the island. These forests, the first in Europe, instead of extending monotonously in long plains, plunge into deep valleys, or wind along the sides of high mountains, not wrapped in heavy and gloomy clouds like the forests of the north a splendid sun illumines them, and they present immense and magnificent prospects. The forest of Aïtone, one of the two which are being utilised, passes for the most vast and the most beauti@ful of all in the island. I admired its gigantic Lariccio pines, their trunks slender and smooth, towering, exhaling a powerful perfume of resin, branchless up to a height of above 100 feet, and crowned by a magnificent tuft of foliage, waving and sonorous in the breeze.-@Valery, i., pp. 118-120. The forests belonging to the state have in Corsica a superficies of about 40,000 hectares these forests will be utilised by means of thirteen routes forestières.-Grandchamps. The forest of Aïtone, the most classical of Corsica, contains more than 700,000 trees of fir and larix pine, of large girth and height. The utilisation of this forest by the Genoese in the seventeenth century lasted fifty years. Its superficies is 1,360 hectares on one of its sides it approaches the sea along the torrent of Porto, on the other, climbing the mountain, it joins the great forest of Valdoniello, which contains more than 500,000 trees.@-@Galletti, p. 139. The forests are of pine trees, principally of two species, Pinus maritima, generally called pinaster, which is chiefly useful as yielding great quantities of turpentine, but whose wood is not durable and the famous Corsican pine, which supplies some of the most valuable timber in Europe.@.@.@. Mr. Hawker, speaking of the confusion existing between this tree and larch, says, There are two trees, whose scientific names are-1. Pinus larix, which we call larch, and the French Melese, or rarelv larix@@ 2. Pinus laricio, which we call Corsican pine, and the French Pin larice. No one who has ever seen the Corsican pine could possibly mistake it for a larch, as the tree is an evergreen, and resembles a Scotch fir and, moreover, I do not believe that there is a single specimen of a larch in the island.@-Hawker, Alpine Journal, May, 1869. The tallest Pinus maritima that we measured was 116 feet high, and the largest Pinus laricio was close to the path on our way up it was 136 feet high and twenty-four round, but there were many larger in the forest. A baulk of laricio timber was exhibited at the Ajaccio exhibition 1865 , for which a prize was deservedly given, as the labour of getting it out of the forest must have been enormous. It measured, when properly squared, eight feet square, and was over 160 feet long.-Hawker, Alpine Journal, p.  ? my first acquaintance with which I had made in the woods round Cannes. Here, in Aïtone, the smooth satin-like surface of these nests, shining like silver among the tall dark green pines, has a most curious effect and not less strange, from time to time, are the long strings or processions -some of them ten or fifteen feet in length-of this extraordinary cater@pillar crawling along the road, now parallel with its edge, now crossing it in unbroken file., In other parts, below trees more than commonly full of their nests, are great heaps, some of them as large as a half-bushel basket, of these creatures, apparently in a state of torpor, or only in motion towards the point from which their follow my leader institution is about to take place. Now and then, in passing under trees loaded with these bombyx bags, the thought that one may plump into one's face is not agreeable, for the hairs which come from these animals on the slightest touch occasion excessive and even dangerous irritation. But the questions arise, on seeing such myriads of these wonderful little brutes-do the nests fall down by their own weight, owing to the increasing size of the caterpillars ? Or do the inmates at a certain time open their nests and fall down spontaneous to commence their linear expeditions ? Do they, as some maintain, migrate in order to procure fresh food ? It seems to me not so from what I have noticed of their habits for though I have continually discovered them coming down the trunk of a pine-tree, I have never seen any going up. Rather is not all this movement preliminary to burrowing in the earth as, indeed, the peasants about Cannes say they do previously to their transformation into chrysalides ? Anyhow, they are a singularly curious, though not a pleasant lot of creatures, and their most strange habits are well worth observing. See Notes relating to this species of Bombyx at the end of the Volume. The walk through the forest of Aïtone, one of the largest in Corsica, is full of interest. The carriage-road which winds along the southern side of the basin or valley is not very steep, and generally in good condition but at present, on account of the deep ruts made by the heavy timber cars, I send on Flora and Co. with the letter to M. Ruelle, and prefer doing the day's work on foot. Having passed beyond a tract, partially cleared for charcoal burning, and where there are other buildings belonging to M. Chauton, the forest becomes excessively dense, and although it is always more and more apparent as you proceed, that in subjects of pictorial beauty the immense expanse of these woods is inferior to those of Bavella, owing to the want of the unique background of crags that completes the scenery there, yet Aïtone may boast of a greater variety in its foliage-beech, spruce fir, and, high up in the pass, birch, being mingled in the most exquisite luxuriance with the Pinus maritima and Pinus lariccio-so that at every step you are struck by fresh bits@@ for study, though, so to speak, the sea of forest baffles any attempt to portray it as a@ All the way up the pass numberless charms arrest your attention-the sunlight twinkling and glittering through the young yellow leaves of the great beech trees, or glancing on their tall silvery stems, here black with moss, there with long floating tresses of pale green lichen waving from their branches. You look up to the highest summits above the pass, where masses of pine contrast darkly with cushions of gold-green beech-wood lingering in shady hollows you mark the chequered lights on the road, or on the pure white snow, which higher up is lying in wreaths along the banks by the wayside. Nowhere is there any lack of the beautiful throughout. Halting here and there to make memoranda, or to rest by the delicious streams which are frequent in these high mountains, it is ten before I reach the bocca or level space that at the top of the pass divides the two great forests, and where that of Aïtone abruptly ceases as you leave the hollow basin in which it grows. Here, among the last pines crowning the topmost edge of the valley, I sit and look down on the vast scene, the deep and broad gulf between two mountain walls, thousands of pine and beech trees filling up all the intervening space, stretching down in shadowy blue gradations towards the sea, and climbing up the barrier ridges on each side the sense of magnitude and solitude is profoundly impressive, and all I have heard of Corsican forest scenery seems little compared with the plenitude of reality before me, a scene wanting possibly in elegance of form, but in splendour of extent and variety of colour certainly far beyond what I had expected to find. 66 See Plate 21. A few minutes' walk suffices to cross the ridge, and to bring me on the opposite side of it to the descent leading through the forest of Valdoniello, into the great basin of the Niolo, which, from the point I now stand on, is seen below in its whole breadth and length to the north-east-Niolo, the heart of Corsican romance and liberty-its long lines of hill fading away into palest blue on the horizon.67 All the landscape here is on a greater scale than that I have left the lofty Monte Artica on the south, and Monte Cinto the highest summit in the island on the north, tower above the head of this deep and wide valley of the Golo in snowy magnificence, enclosing it as it were with gigantic wings and less lofty heights bar away the outer world from this compactly delineated canton throughout its whole @@@297. 66 Many pines in the Aïtone and Valdoniello forests are 120 feet in height one in the latter forest is twenty-six feet in girth at three feet three inches from the ground, and 150 feet high.-Forester, p. 186. At the top of the valley of the Golo, the forest of Valdoniello, which crests it, is perhaps superior to that of Aïtone by its site and extent, the variety of its trees, and its rich vegetation. Many of the pines in it are thirty metres high and eight in girth.@-@Valery, i., p. 119. 67 Some few heathen usages have been retained in Corsica, especially among the herdsmen of Niolo. The most remarkable is the divination from bones. The diviner takes the shoulder-blade of a goat or sheep, polishes it, and reads from it the destinies of the person in question. It must, however, be the left shoulder-blade, because by the old proverb, La destra spalla falla.-Gregorovius.  of Valdoniello, commencing immediately from the bocca or ridge I have crossed, clothes the slopes of the mountains on its eastern, as that of Aïtone does its western side but the proportions of the surrounding scenery are here so much more vast that the space covered by the pines seems less at a first glance than that in the pass from Porto it is only when you begin the descent through Valdoniello that you perceive how widely in each direction the limits of this grand forest stretch out, and that the trees here are of the greatest size, though dwarfed by the huge mountain forms above them into apparently less importance. Two or three woodmen point out a direct path down the hill to M. Chauton's great establishment but I prefer descending by the longer carriage route, first breakfasting-for it is now nearly noon-and then making a drawing of this magnificent scene, where, unlike Bavella, there is no mystery, but all is spread out in one broad picture, from the high snowy Artica and the long lines of dark pines feathering its sides, down to the farthest limits of the Niolo, a valley that may indeed rather be called a small plain, the features of @which, however dear to the memory of Corsican days of liberty, do not make me regret that I shall not have time to visit it at least, from this height it has a somewhat bare and bleak aspect.68 See Plate 22. Much of the upper part of this forest is beginning to show the ravages of M. Chauton's hatchets here and there on the hillside are pale patches of cleared ground, with piles of cut and barked pines and you pass at times a spot where giant trees lie prostrate or you see a car with many mules drawing up its ponderous burden to the bocca, whence it is carried down to Porto or to Sagona.@@@@ They came, they cut away my tallest pines, My dark tall pines, that plumed the craggy ledge. As I descend slowly, commencing drawings which are to be returned to on the morrow, my first impressions as to the difficulty of procuring  situation and its shepherd inhabitants, one of the most curious and interesting parts of the island. The valley, of a regular form-a sort of theatre closed in by mountains-has an extraordinary aspect its four entrances, two at each end, might be defended by a few men against numbers. Small fields, separated by low walls of stones piled up together, serve as pasture-grounds throughout its extent. The height, strength, and good looks of the men of Niolo, who are almost all shepherds, are remarkable, and their intelligence is extreme it is difficult to give an idea of how neatly and with what facility they express themselves on their own affairs and the interests of their valley. This normal population is about 3,300 in number, among which there are not thirty artisans or merchants poetry and song are familiar to these rude Arcadians of Corsica.@.@.@. The ravages committed in the valley of the Niolo by the Genoese in 1503 is one of the most horrible memories connected with their rule the inhabitants were hunted down, the houses destroyed, c. c. Calacuccia, the chief place of the canton, contains more than 600 inhabitants. The period of the annual cattle fair, September 8, is the best time to visit the Niolo and to see the population of the valley in its most picturesque phase. The women are the only ones left in the island who preserve their ancient costume, a costly but durable dress which may be 130 francs in price. A cap of black velvet, bordered by their hair in two tresses, is the head-dress a chemise buttoned up to the chin serves for a handkerchief the dress is of blue cloth, open at the throat, and bordered with velvet. Nevertheless,  in Valdoniello are a good deal modified. At Bavella, I had said the precipices are absolutely close at hand while here the great heights are far away vast slopes of pines in masses, with a bare valley, Niolo, beyond-a scene too large to be reducible to a drawing. Yet, on advancing, I perceive that here the pines are larger and more spreading, and more apt by their detached manner of growth to combine gracefully and grandly with the mountains above and it must be confessed that the very thinning of Valdoniello, which is preluding its downfall, has its advantages in providing space for light and shadow, for which there was no room in the close dense masses of wood before the work of destruction began. Heavy showers of rain fall as I get further down the hill, an inconvenience atoned for by the beautiful effects which follow folds of mist are drawn like gauze curtains across parts of the forest, while others are black in cloud shade the more open portion, where trees have been cut away, disclose vistas and depths of inner scenery, and multitudes of stately pillar-like stems and within these recesses, deeper and farther away from daylight, all, as well as their lateral branches relieved, light off the solid wall of pines behind. None of these beautiful effects were to be seen in Bavella, nor was there there, as here, an undergrowth of silvery birch, suddenly recalling Coolhurst or Cumberland. See Plate 23. At 4 P.M., always descending, I reach the cleared level space in which stands the principal establishment of M. Chauton-a busy little world, in great contrast with the scenery around it, and reminding me of Robinson Crusoe's settlement as represented in beautiful Stothard drawings, those exquisite creations of landscape which first made me, when a child, long to see similar realities. A large building made of bright pale pine-wood-the house of M. Ruelle, the agent-is encircled by grounds divided from the forest by palisades, and containing gardens and houses for workmen, and  the bad taste to dress themselves a la mode. -Valery, i., pp. 122, 123. To the right lies the shepherd-region of Niolo, the modern canton of Calacuccia, a remarkable district, enclosed by the highest mountains, in which the two lakes Ino and Creno are situated. This district is a natural stronghold, opening out only at four points, towards Vico, Venaco, Calvi, and Corte. In this district live the strongest men in Corsica, patriarchal shepherds, who have faithfully preserved the manners of their forefathers.-Gregorovius, p. 316. The people of the Niolo are a nomade tribe, who occupy a wild and cold valley on the banks and at the source of the Golo. The winter drives them from their villages for eight months in the year, when they come down to the plains, to the gates of Bastia, Ajaccio, Corte, and Rousse.-Grandchamps, p. 22. Every road into the Niolo presents inconveniences that which leads thither from the Ponte Fraucardo goes to the bridge of Castirla, and follows the course of the Golo to the ladder or stair of Santa Regina, once a place of great danger, and one where so many men and animals have perished, now rendered sufficiently safe even for travellers on horseback. In following the road by the course of the Tavignano, the grotto of the Fugitives Refugies is seen, the place where the mother of Napoleon I. passed a night-one of storms-when, after the catastrophe of Ponte Nuovo, she and other com@panions of misfortune fled to the highest mountains. After leaving the Tavignano, the path leads to the forest of Alberato di Melo and Mount Pascio, thence to Campo-Tile and the lakes of Ino and Creno.-Galletti, pp. 210,  stables for mules. One hundred and fifty men are employed on the spot, mostly from Lucca or Modena, and in many instances accompanied by their families-in fact, one sees a small village in the centre of a forest, the appearance of the whole betokening extreme order and cleanliness. The demure Domenico-little Flora having long since espied and come  me-shows me the way through a formidable array of dogs to M. Ruelle's door, where that gentleman receives me with the greatest cordiality- rooms for me and my servant are all ready, would I have some refreshment now ? No for as the weather is once more clear and fine, I will go out, and return later. Then you must be here punctually at 6, for at that hour I and my wife dine, whether you return or not, because directly afterwards I have to  see to the men's supper. M. Ruelle is a continental, and adds to friendliness and hospitality that vivacity which is so pleasant in the cheery Frenchman. I drew on among those tall trees till 5.30 the whispering of their foliage, so high in air, is heard but faintly. Go ever so little away from the cleared space, and you may fancy yourself miles distant in the heart of this sadly grand forest-silent, silent darkening, darkening, as the sun sinks lower a lonely and majestic phase of nature, and one by no means painless or free from a strange melancholy. 5.30.-In the wooden palace of Valdoniello M. Ruelle is ready to show me a spacious room and comfortable bed up-stairs, everything above and around being odorous of fresh pine-wood and then, after a glass of absinthe, dinner was served in the neatest of rooms, clean and well-furnished, after a pine-wood log-house fashion. Madame Ruelle, a pleasant, homely little lady, joined us, and a tame pigeon and a cat were all the party besides my man G., whom they kindly ask to join it, having again a fit of fever. The dinner is excel@lent, and, as I remark to my hosts, the effect of the whole house and enter@tainment is as if Robinson Crusoe had found the Trois Frères Restaurant on his desolate island nor, I think, in any place, can the contrasts of life be stronger, or events more inverted, than in Corsica here, for instance, in the heart of a remote mountain forest, where the most ordinary fare would have been thankfully met with, is a small palace and a first-rate cuisine while at cities like Bonifacio or Sarténé your comfort is doubtful. My lively and intelligent acquaintance are full of pleasant conversation they have lived four years at Moscow and Novgorod, and after dinner show me an interesting collection of Russian photographs of their stay in Russia and of the people they knew there they speak with regret and affection. As to my praise of Valdoniello, there seems to be to that, as to all questions, two sides for in winter they are sometimes quite blocked up by snow for two or three months nor is the responsibility of managing so large a number of operatives in so lonely a place without its cares. My plan of going down to Evisa to-morrow afternoon is first heard with dismay, and then utterly repudiated and their request that I will stay another day with them is urged with so much warmth and heartiness that I accept the invitation, the rather that doing so will enable me to complete much more work than I could accomplish otherwise. So we pass a pleasant evening, talking chiefly of Corsica and Russia nor do my two French riddles fail to secure their usual brilliant popularity- Quand est ce que vos souliers font vingt-cinq ?-Quand ils sont neuf et treize et trois neufs et très étroits and Pourquoi dois tu cherir la chicorée ?-Parceque c'est amère ta mère . At 9 to sleep in the wooden room of the wooden house, a perfectly com@fortable chamber, and where one may fancy one's self in an Australian or backwood loghouse. @US LARICCIO. May 13.-4.30 A.M., looking from the window, the red sunlight glancing on the thousands of pine stems of the forest, recalls the crimson lights on the palms in many a Nile sunrise. At 5 I am on my way up the hill, G. carrying a particularly abundant load for breakfast, for it had been arranged by my hospitable host and hostess that I was to pass the day in the forest, so as not to lose time by returning and, said M. Ruelle, who busied himself in seeing the eatables packed, Voilà un gigot d'agneau, des truites, du pain, et du fromage et du vin est-ce qu'on mange bien au milieu d'un forêt ? The day passed in hard work about the two forests, until towards 3 P.M., when the clouds, which, as yesterday, had added much to the beauty of the scenery, ceased to be either pleasant or useful, and dissolved in rain, so that it became difficult to make any more drawings requiring continued attention. While in A@ïtone I was convinced, as on my first passing through that forest, of the im@practicability of giving an idea of the whole scene. Several of those groups of gigantic trees were, however, wonderful to look at, and especially some which, dead, and white as ivory, shoot up out of the purply gloom of the deep forest, their antler-like heads looking like silver as they caught gleams of sunshine. In Valdoniello, where at 11 breakfast was arranged by a clear stream-possibly one of the sources of the Golo-no portion of this sublime forest landscape is more striking than the flat tops of some of the singularly Turneresque or Martinesque pines, relieving almost positively black against the great dis@tance beyond, an effect which is not seen among the more crowded trees and, moreover, I should say that these Valdoniello pines ex@ceed any I have seen both in girth and height. Unlike Bavella, so delightfully full of  forest here seems very destitute of animal life, hardly a note being heard from hour to hour, a deficiency with which probably the constant sound of the hatchet and frequent passage of timber carts may have somewhat to do. While at breakfast, two gendarmes passing asked me why, at Evisa, I had gone to the inn of Constantino Colombi, an Italian refugee, instead of to the Hotel Carrara so that it seems after all there is really some better abode at the village than that I was taken to by coachman Domenico and now that the name is mentioned it recalls to me that the gendarme at Carghésé spoke to me about the Carrara house. Late in the afternoon rain-showers prevented all work, except rapidly noting down flying effects of cloud and mist, or making memoranda of the fine masses of pines mixed with groups of birch trees and as a little book sufficed for this, I sent G., still suffering more or less from fever, down to the house. After all, at this great elevation, and so early in the summer, it is a matter of congratulation that I have not had more bad weather to hinder my tour nor, in quite clear days can this broad open forest be nearly so beautiful as now, when it is varied by cloud and light. At the hospitable Maison Ruelle the evening passed cheerfully with these amiable and sensible people. Before dinner we visited the little gardens, bordered neatly with wooden palings. Assuredly, Lo, we found it in the wood, if a scriptural motto were desired, would be the one most suitable for this Valdoniello palace. May 14.-The morning is glorious. M. Ruelle, followed by great watch@dogs and innumerable puppydom, greets me at sunrise with coffee. At 5.30 I send Flora and Co. to wait at the foot of the A@ïtone pass near Evisa. The passage of the heavy timber carts along these roads after rain makes them far from pleasant to drive over, besides that on foot I can better study the immense hollow of A@ïtone forest, with its multitudinous glories, chaos of pine below, and gold-cushioned beech woods above. I take leave of the hospitable M. Ruelle, and begin to ascend the ridge by the short steep winding path among the pines G., who by dint of quinine is better, follows, but Flora, who knows that her primary sphere of obedience is to stick to the carriage, and yet who has now come to believe that she should not lose sight of me, is puzzled, and sees before her a divided duty, finally rushing to the road to resume her old habits of life. Perhaps the finest scene of all here is about half way up the ridge, whence you look down on a stern line of giant pines standing out sharply and wall-like against the clear distance and voluminous folds of forest which fringe the edges of snowy Mount Artica this morning, bright and cloudless, would not, however, have admitted of my making any drawing opposite the sunrise, so that I have been lucky in the clouds of yesterday. See Plate 22.  At 8, having rejoined the trap, Flora and Co., M. Chauton's charcoal station is passed, and thenceforth is Bombyx-land, the white caterpillar sacs high upon the trees shining like silvery Abou-Jerdánns on Nile palms. All the pines that I observe so infested are thin and not strong looking whether being diseased they attract settlements of Bombyx, or whether the insects are the origin of the decay of the tree, I know not, but, certainly, in the interior of the forest, where the trees are so magnificent, the Bombyx prevails not. At Valdoniello I scarcely saw an instance of it. At 9 the forest is fairly left the careful Domenico, who, unlike swearing Peter, never loses an opportunity of well-treating his horses, stops for some minutes at a fountain and then on to Evisa by 9.30 A.M. Here the Hotel Carrara, on the second floor of a very tidy little house, is a surprise, from its absolute cleanliness and neatness. Domenico's excuse for not having gone there on our way from Porto, is that the mistress does not receive any one unless they bring a recommendation from some known person, and this may be really the case, because the taciturn landlady, on my saying, You must have many guests with such a nice clean house, replies, Si riceve pochi commandanti, colonelli, gente chi come voi conoscono Mons. Chauton gli altri si mand' a basso-few are received here officers and such as, like yourself, know M. Chauton the rest are sent down - basso meaning the dirty pothouse where I slept two nights ago, and which@ is nearly opposite, lower in the road. The perfect propriety of the two little bed-rooms here, and of the plain well-furnished sitting-room, could not be surpassed in even a Dutch country inn nor could the most fastidious have found fault with the breakfast of omelette, supported by ham and olives, mutton with Lazagne-pasta, first-rate trout-generally, they say, to be had here all through the year-broccio, walnuts, Vico raisins, and excellent wine, served, as they were, by the neat mistress of the house and her daughter, the prettiest girl I have seen in these Corsican travels, with light blue eyes and long black eyelashes. Both mother and daughter are dressed in the short black silk spencer and coloured cotton gown, and the double head handkerchief worn in this part of the island. They tell me that in the winter there are frequently three or four feet of snow here for months together. Who, in a remote mountain village of Corsica, would have looked for such a locanda-faultless in point of cleanliness, good fare, and homely civility, and with a charge, too, of only two and a half francs a head for breakfast ? It is something at least to have seen life in Evisa from two distinct points of view. Off at 11, and soon leaving the forest road to Aïtone on the left, drive to the village of Cristinaccie, a small hamlet containing some tolerably good houses, at the head of the valley thence crossing by a good and large bridge the torrent which runs by the pass of Otta to Porto, the road commences  ascent, occupying more than an hour. The first part of it is very interesting and beautiful, from the noble ilex groves through which it passes, and from the fine woods of mixed ilex and chesnut you look down on in the deep vale above which you are rising. Sheets of white mayflower contrast with bright green or yellow brown foliage of the two sorts of trees, and glitter among the bare gray arms and moss-grown trunks of the dark evergreen oaks, immense in size, and feathering the mountain sides down into far depths of shade. Farther up, these woods are left behind, as loftier heights are neared, where there are crowns and cushions of brilliant yellow beech among granite cliffs, and dusky hued smooth rocks shining and sparkling with streaks of white snow and streams of running water. At 12.30, winding along the edge of precipices, guarded here by good parapets, three or four of the monstrous timber-laden carriages are passed. Quite across the valley, Evisa is seen, compact above its massive chesnut groves far below is the little village of Cristinaccie. Coachman Domenico, who never hastens his horses up hill-they obey with a word,- fate osservazione, Signore, come ubbidiscono ! -seizes on these opportunities to indulge in ebullitions assumed to be of a vocal character, if that may be so called which is rather a succession of mildly dismal moans in a minor key, sadly slow and monotonous. No cheerful air have I yet heard hummed or whistled by any Corsican, male or female the women, instead of singing those far-sounding and beautiful melodies so often listened to in days of Italian life, walk mutely. Corsican gravity is continually noticeable. Tout est grave, says M. Merimée, en Corse. At 1 P.M., after rest for the horses at a fountain, the bocca or top of the pass is reached. A perspective of road succeeds to the hill-climb, descending always towards the valley of Vico, and offering, as it recedes from the higher mountains, finer views in the direction of@ the great ranges towards Monte Artica and Monte Rotondo, where darkening clouds tell that rain storms, as yesterday, are in full play. All the drive is remarkable for beauty, and of that kind so characteristic of woody Corsica extreme greenness, ilex trees in detached groups or crowded into dells, slopes of fern and asphodel, distances of pure blue towards the sea, and snow-topped hills lost in cloud inland, where a road leads to Guagno and its baths at the foot of Monte Rotondo. At 1.30 the town of Vico69 is visible among vineyards and cultivation, in 69 Vico, a small town, the chief place of the canton of that name, formerly possessed a tribunal, and was always the head of the old province of Vico. The Bishop of Sagona resided there. Among the communes composing the canton is Renno, where that widow was born who, during the government of General Paoli, devoted her two sons to their country. Having received the news that the eldest had been killed in battle, she hastily armed the other and accompanied him to Sollacaro in order to present him to the General, whom the incident moved to tears.-Galletti, p. 139. On the way from Vico to Guagno, between Musso and Boccasorro, are the ruins of the castle of La Zurlina, occupied in 1488 by Rinuccio de Leca, relative and confederate of the illustrious Jean Paul. The sulphur baths of Guagno, efficacious against rheumatism and cutaneous maladies, are the least  off on the right stands its detached convent, greatly praised for its position. So I send on Flora and Co. to the hotel, of which Domenico somewhat proudly reports, E' all 'uso d'Ajaccio Vico e citta-the inn is after the fashion of Ajaccio, for Vico is a city, and I walk on, taking, at a junction of three roads, that which leads to Ajaccio through Sari, the other two being those to Sagona and to Guagno, by Vico. It is hardly possible to visit a more beautiful scene of mixed cultivation and wild distance than that which opens from the Vico convent, where, after passing through a small ancient-looking hamlet, with very dark black-brown houses, I soon arrived. Leafiness is the general characteristic of Corsica, but here it is more observable than ever, so completely clothed is every part of the landscape with luxuriant foliage, except at the very tops of the mountains. Everywhere a profusion of olives and walnut and fig trees, with much vineyard and corn, give a cheery air to the nearer scenery, while all the parts less culti@vated are carpeted with fern and shaded by noble chesnut groves, and though the valley is quite surrounded by mountains, yet it is sufficiently spacious to be free from any look of confinement or gloom. In the middle of all this basin of tufted greenery stands the town of Vico, a compact cluster of dwellings, backed by a tall and not unpicturesque campanile, completing the picture, doubtless one of the most beautiful in Corsica. See Plate 24. It was 6 P.M. before-having finished the drawings I had commenced on the convent side of the town-I went on to Vico. But I regret to say that the place was much lessened in my esteem by becoming more nearly acquainted with it the particularly unclean streets, the appalling odours on all sides, and the hotel, all' uso d'Ajaccio, not appearing at all prepos@sessing after the perfect little inn at Evisa, or even those of Carghésé and La Piana, albeit those are comparatively unfrequented localities, while Vico is a place to which a diligence runs daily from the capital, and which at one time was a Sous-préfecture. Before dusk there is still time to see the farther side of the town, but a walk through it, and for some way along the Guagno road, shows me-luckily, since my time is limited-that there will be no necessity to make drawings in  inn and a chapel there, and the number of bathers is as great as 600 or 800 annually.@.@. Guagno is in repute for the purity of its Italian. Vico, it is said, has the same merit. The French language in Corsica is not at all corrupted, and bears no resemblance to the barbarous patois of many of our own provinces it is singular that these moun@taineer islanders speak the Italian of Rome, and the French of Paris, for the dialect of Corsica is the least corrupt of Italian dialects, and infinitely more intelligible than the jargon of Naples, Genoa, Bologna, or Milan. Vico, a small industrious old town, which has nearly 1,400 inhabitants, is one of the Sous-Prefectures suppressed under the empire.-@Valery, i., p. 11. Guagno, the most populous village of the canton of Soccia, is one of which the inhabitants are nearly all shepherds or agriculturists, and they possess large flocks of sheep and goats. @Their cheese is of the best quality and they cultivate some tobacco, Nicotina rustica.-Galletti, p. 140.  return to the hotel as the gray hues of evening are falling on all this beautiful valley scenery. Meanwhile, on the arrival of the diligence, dinner is announced-a table d'hôte meal, hastily and ill served, though of tolerable quality. Three travellers by the vehicle assist at the function, besides the conducteur, myself and servant and the courteous and pleasant manners of the Corsicans soon went far to atone for the impressions made by the rough service d'hôtel, unwashed and offensively-smelling floors, and other disagreeable etcetera. Of the three travellers, two seem Government employes they discourse chiefly on local@@@@@@ matters, also on fevers, and on the principal places in Corsica infested by malaria. The east side of Ajaccio, in summer time, they unite in condemning. VICO. May 15.-I leave the hotel at Vico before 5 A.M., but carry with me no pleasant memories. Till 7 I draw the town once more, and then go to the Evisa road junction, or Tρɩ́οδος, to wait for the trap, D., G., and Flora. As I sit by a little chapel conspicuous for its singularly ugly architecture-the absence in Corsica of the numerous pretty chapels and shrines that so adorn Italian landscapes is to be regretted-the view all around is very beautiful the convent hill side is absolutely one dense mass of chesnut foliage, and everywhere the extreme greenness is delightful. The  heights and parts of the foreground remind me a good deal of Subiaco here, however, all is richer in covering, and the scenery of a more open character. Most charming and complete are the valley of Vico and its fresh verdure, and the recollections of their great beauty are a good set-off to those of its town and hotel. The diligence road down to Sagona, broad and furnished with parapets, runs along the side of a valley, gradually descending to the shore, and the drive occupies little more than an hour from the junction of the Evisa and Sari roads. In the upper part of the vale there is much cultivation, particularly of the vine-the village of Balogna, close to Vico, being famous for its vintage-but the hills are not remarkable for beauty, nor does the rest of the way present any novelty fern, red and white cystus, foxglove, and other wild flowers are plentiful and lovely near the road chesnut and ilex groves below it-all constant accompaniments in Corsican journeying. Certain objects, which look like wheelless and bottomless cars, or decayed wheel@barrows of large dimensions, puzzle me by their frequent occurrence by Corsican waysides, and are explained by Domenico to be measures for broken stone used for road-mending by cantonniers, and are called casci di roccaglie. The stone-breakers and road-menders in the island, unlike the woodmen and cultivators, are all natives. Towards the sea the valley broadens, and the familiar maquis resumes its place in the landscape the few forlorn houses representing the ancient Sagona and the Porte de Sagone are reached shortly after 8 A.M. Then follows the pleasant shore drive, and the beautiful vale of the Liamone with its fields of corn and its gay yellow iris marshes, after which there is nothing more worth noting, except the number of bee-eaters on the telegraph wires, and that a large snake crosses the road at the Liamone mouth. And thus Teucchia, and the wayside Repos des Voyageurs, is reached at 9 A.M. Here they tell me Miss C. is expected on her way to the forests of Aïtone and Valdoniello the untiring zeal of this lady may be of great use to many hereafter, if she will publish her observations, which are sure to be many and shrewd. It is too soon yet for breakfast, but there are many very calm and shadowed coves by a sunny shore hereabouts, and a sketch of the granite rocks and the distant gulf hills well passes the time. Long points-a la Corse-stretch out and form a tranquil little bay, where scarcely a plash of sea is heard. Later, G. presents a breakfast of cold hare and snow-white cheese, assuring me, as the head of the former is wanting, that he had previously examined it at the hotel, and that its long ears precluded any fear of its belonging to the genus felis. The judicious Flora comes to assist at the polishing of bones, running every other minute to inspect the carriage and luggage, and to bark at imaginary marauders. She returns, when breakfast is over, to her pos@@ trap, I to my drawing, the Suliot to the gathering of marine bobolia, and the examination of blue jelly-fish, which, as he truly says, abound here as they do on the long breezy sands of storm-beaten Askalon, or on the shore at Eleutheropolis, opposite Saloniki, where I was once detained in idleness and semi-starvation for three days on account of contrary winds. But the white amaryllis of these lands was wanting there. At II Domenico, who has been investing in crawfish and other marine edibles, is ready with his capital little ponies, always well kept and well driven, and away I go back to Ajaccio. I pass the fig gardens and vineyards of the village of Calcatoggio at noon, stopping now and then to take a look, or a memorandum, of Carghésé, the Mainote settlement, on its long and solitary promontory or admiring the sheets of rose-coloured cystus-bloom amongst the wide tracts of maquis and thus, by a walk up the hill, reach the Bocca di S. Sebastiano vide page 119 by 12.30 P.M. Miss C. not having been met with, Domenico opines that the lady has gone round to Vico by Sari, and with Corsican shrewdness, remarks, Quella vuol veder tutta l'Isola e quando vi sono due strade andar e ritornar, non si contenta con una-that lady wishes to see all Corsica, and when there are two roads to come and go by, she uses both. The way back is well and rapidly got over, the rather that, as is its custom of an afternoon, it begins to rain. How invariably, on perceiving some little white building a long way ahead, does one find it, on drawing near, to be no Italian shrine, no picturesque Greek chapel, but a mere box-like house. In Corsica one must not look for architectural graces, except, perhaps, among the tombs. 2.30 P.M.-At Ajaccio once more. Letters and papers, and a pleasant welcome at the Ottavi hotel, and from M. le Commandant Lambert. And, as usual, the high slanting wall by the barracks is blackened with swarming children. This, the second tour in Corsica, has been all that could be desired as to carriage, horses, and driver, the young man Domenico being a careful whip and kind master to his cattle. But he wants to know if I can certainly start for Corte on Monday morning, a decision which as yet I cannot arrive at, as it must depend on weather, among other things.  CHAPTER VII. Plans for a Third Tour in the Island-A Visit to Mellili, the Country House of the Buonaparte Family-The Great Ilex Tree-The Deserted Gardens-Thoughts at Mellili-Revisit the Rocks of St. Antoine-Set Off on a Third Tuur-Good Road along the Valley of the Gravone-Laden Timber Carts-Gardens and Cultivation-Burned Forest of Vero-Cloud and Rain-Reach Bocoguano-The Café des Amis -M. Berlandi-His Account of People Lost in the Forests-Weather Clear, and shows Monte d'Oro magnificently-Imposing and Grand Scenery@-@Great Chesnut Woods-Visit to the House whence Napoleon Escaped-Tranquil and Sombre Character of the Landscape and Villages-Leave Bocognano@-@Pass between Monte d'Oro and Monte Renoso@-Beautiful View from the Top of the Bocca or Pass-Burned Forest of Vizzavona-Descent to the Village of Vivario-Domenico and Flora are found there-No Room in the Hotel-Decide on going on to Ponte del Vecchio-Reach Serraggio-Very Beautiful Scenery-Pass Lugo and Sta. Maria di Venaco-Chesnut Woods-Descent to the Valley of the Tavignano-Approach to Corte-Its Appearance-Citadel Bridge-Interior of the Town-Fête and Confusion-No Room in the Hotel-Difficulty in obtaining Lodgings-M. Corteggiani-A Small Locanda found-Porters of Corte-A Sleepless Night. May 16.-Rain has fallen in torrents through the whole day, holding up only towards evening, in timely allowance for a walk by the seaside. Before this walk becomes as much frequented by those flocks of English, whom hope-that springs eternal in the human breast-forcibly pictures to certain minds as making a new Promenade des Anglais on these shores, may the drainage be remodelled ! for at present the nasal sense is much disturbed by its condition. But the hours bring plenty of work-abundant writing of letters, among others one to Olmeto, from which place I hear by a note that Mr. B. continues to get worse a call at the Prefecture, where I find the amiable Préfet recovering slowly from the effects of his accident. Taking great interest in my journeys through the island, he promises letters of intro@duction for various places on the eastern and northern sides, where hotels do not always exist. Zicavo, Ghisoni, and the forests of Sorba and Marmano, are among the places he recommends me to see, but I doubt my being able to accomplish the whole programme he draws up for my next and last tour. After all, counting the chances of bad weather, and other possible causes of interruption, a tour of two months, let an artist work as hard as he may, very barely suffices to give an idea of the scenery of so large an island as this-one hundred and fifteen miles long, by fifty or sixty broad nevertheless some twenty or more views of the most strikingly characteristic portions of its landscape may serve to give home-stayers a tolerably correct notion of Corsica, perhaps even to induce some of the migratory to visit it. The unlucky Miss C. is supposed to have only succeeded in getting as far as Vico, and to be there imprisoned, because the violent rains will  have made the mountain roads impassable. Meanwhile, my good fortune in seeing the forests so easily is a matter of congratulation. The Ottavi talk to me of the larger hotel they hope to establish next winter and I hope they may do so, for they are sure to prosper. Madame Ottavi's coffee-she learned to make it in Algeria-is alone worth much, not to speak of care and obliging ways, cleanliness, and good cookery, besides the assiduous sweepings of the waiter Bonifazio. To-morrow I hope to see Mellili, formerly the country house of the Buonapartes to get a drawing of the St. Antoine scenery and on the following day to start for Corte and Bastia. Late in the day comes a budget of letters-introductory from M. Géry. M. Prosper Merimée, who promised little, did much in being the cause of my receiving these letters, which will be extremely useful. May 17.-The day, cloudy and wet early, clears at noon the trap and ponies come, driven by their master Jean the Vaudois, Jehu Domenico and Flora having set off yesterday to Corte, where there is some particular fête. Jean discourses on the great security of the Corsican roads in our days, and of the vice versâ-ness of those in Sardinia also on the advantages of climate here, which had restored him to health, after he had been getting worse year by year at his native Luzerna in the Vaudois hills. The drive is a pleasant one, and all things are brighter than when I was. here on April 14 the vines out in full leaf, and all the verdure of cultivation-now the characteristic of these hills, which but a few years back were so bare-fresh and vivid, and resounding with the voices of multitudes of quails. There are two large penal establishments or penitenciers on these hills the lower, whence a road see page 29 goes on to St. Antonio and some villages beyond, is used as a farming depot for cattle, horses, sheep, c. the land around both this and the building higher up the hill is being brought into cultivation by the convicts, who are all French, and mostly youths sentenced for venial offences to various terms of imprisonment. All wear a prison costume, and are attended by armed guardiani. A steep pull leads to Castelluccio, the upper or chief penitencier, which stands very high, and commands a magnificent lake-like view over the head of the gulf of Ajaccio and the central mountains. The place gives an im@pression of that order and good administration for which the French are so justly credited, and the convicts, who, I am told, really like their life here, have, or seem to have, a look of comfort and cheerfulness, while turning the wilderness into a garden. In the grounds about the establishment I observe specimens of the Australian Eucalyptus or gum-tree, now so frequently planted and flourishing at Cannes and Golf Jouan. Beyond the Penitencier, the road, skirting the hill-sides towards the  among slopes of rich olives hoary to the wind, dives downward, and ends among several villas half hidden in foliage, and as Jean Vaudois has no idea of the position of Mellili, it is some time before I find the path to it there exists, however, a short cut leading directly down to the house from Castelluccio, not far below which is the site of this very interesting spot. Mellili is one of the places that has left with me a stronger impression than most I have visited. The house, always inhabited in the early days of Napoleon by his father and Madame Letitia Buonaparte, is now neglected. THE ILEX TREE OF MELLILI. Bequeathed by Cardinal Fesch to the municipality of Aj@accio, it is let to peasants, who keep sheep and pigs in the once probably well-cared-for grounds. The building, apparently an ordinary farmhouse or villa, tall, small-windowed, and with a forlorn look, presents nothing remarkable to the observer many large gray rounded granite rocks are scattered near it great growth of cactus, and long-armed thin-foliaged olive-trees with moss-grown stems. You pass beyond the house through a wilderness of vegeta@tion, and find a level space covered with a tangle of cystus mixed with long grass and lupines, among which a few sheep are feeding and at the edge of this sort of platform stands the great ilex tree-truly, as Valery  shade was the favourite retreat of Napoleon the First. This celebrated ilex tree-a large portion of which has been broken off by time or storms-is of great size, and stretches its venerable branches droopingly above the verdure and the stone seat it overshadows. Its tufted and thick foliage, almost yellow in colour, contrasts strongly with the green below and with the gray olives on every side beyond its dark black-brown stem and deep gray branches the blue gulf and hills gleam and there is no sound to break the sad quiet of this once gay spot but the voice of the wild pigeon and the sweet harmony of many nightingales. Yet the undying spirit of the past seems to pierce the dim veil of years and neglect, to colour with life all this impressive and solitary place, and to people Mellili with visions of beauty and history connected with the family who, as children, played here unnoticed, but who grew up to be the most prominent objects in the sight of a wondering world. Madame Letitia, her five sons, four of them to sit in after years on thrones and her three daughters, two of them to be queens. The boy Napoleon reading below the great oak, or pacing about what was then the garden, looking to those majestic mountains beyond the sea in after days 1790 meditating on the fierce Buttafuoco letter it is dated from Mellili , or on the whirlwind of change so soon to astonish Europe ten years later, visiting once more, and for the last time, his favourite haunts, when the fortunes of Corsica were beginning to seem insignificant among those of so many states, and mainly of France. Like the talking oak of the poet, could the aged tree but answer our questions, and be garrulously given, A babbler in the land, what might he not tell us of the days when Elise, Caroline, and Pauline Buonaparte sported in its shade, undreaming of the crowns of Tuscany and Naples and the princely Borghese halls when Joseph, Lucien, Louis, and Jerome played, and Napoleon paced and meditated below its branches. Melancholy Mellili, well does the repose of the neglected garden and the beautiful scenery around suit such memories ! 70 After making some studies of the great tree, I left the place and climbed up the short steep path to Castelluccio from thence you look over the great slope of olive grounds down almost to the gulf, and mark where a good  formerly belonging to the Jesuits and to the family Buonaparte, was the favourite spot of Napoleon's youth. Here he wrote his letter to Count Matthew Buttafuoco. By an unquestioned tradition, Buonaparte often meditated in the shade of an ancient ilex tree planted near the house there he gave himself up at twenty years of age to dreams full of hope and confidence in the future-dreams that nevertheless could not equal the reality of his history. The Mellili gardens were visited for the last time by Buonaparte on his return from Egypt, ten years after the date of his popular letter to Count Buttafuoco. He passed one day there.@-@Valery, i., p. 175. @The letter to Count Buttafuoco is given in full at page 370 of Gregorovius. It is dated From my cabinet of Mellili, January 23, Year Two. -E. L.  beyond the old house, and conspicuous by its greenness in the midst of the sea of gray foliage stands the vast evergreen oak of Mellili-a mournful place, and one which cannot fail to engrave on some minds its outline and beauty in fixed characters. At 3 P.M., having driven down to the lower penitencier, I walked to the rocks of St. Antoine, and, until 5, made a drawing of that wild, strange scene the multitude of granite masses, piled up and thrown hither and thither, make a fine contrast with the delicate South-down-like turf below, dotted with patches of cystus and lentisk but the scene is by no means an easy one to represent. See Plate 3. At 6.30 back to Ajaccio. Poor Miss C. has returned from Vico, having seen nothing of the forests she has taken so much trouble to visit for, as was foreseen, the roads through them are quite impassable, owing to the late rains. All things are arranged for a start to-morrow on my third and last journey in Corsica. May 18.-There are heavy clouds on the mountains but, as in Cretan travels in May, 1864, what avails it to wait for clear weather ? Just twenty days remain to June 6, when the fortnightly steamer leaves Ajaccio for Nice, and as that must be the date of my exit from Corsica, this journey to the centre and north of the island must be put in practice at once-even at the risk of bad weather preventing the pass of Vivario being visible-or not at all. Off, therefore, once more at 6.30 A.M., with the same carriage and first-rate ponies, but minus Flora and Domenico, one Vicenzo being the new driver until Corte is reached. Freshness of gardens and mulberry plantations near Ajaccio, with melody of nightingales, are the accompaniments of morning on each side of the road which, as far as the turning to Vico, I have already gone over, and the exten@sive views as one advances nearer to the mountains must be very fine in clear weather now, however, ever-thickening clouds hide the pass to Vivario and Corte, so well seen from above Ajaccio see Plate 1 , and by degrees efface all the distant landscape. Observation, therefore, is strictly limited to the foreground, to sheets of white cystus, and here and there to a few peasants, whose dark dresses subtract nothing from the gray gloom of the scene. At the twelfth kilomètre-to me an ominous number in Corsican carriage life-an incident occurs to break the monotony of the drive the seat by the driver being occupied by sacks of barley, G. is obliged to sit in the carriage, and, consequently, the proceedings of the new Jehu cannot be watched with satisfactory caution, nor did we know that he had gone fast asleep, and that the reins had fallen from his hand, until the ponies suddenly turned off at right angles to the road into a path which led straight to a sort of  the edge of which, in ten paces more, we should have executed a second Bastelica somersault, had not Jehu awoke in time. 8 A.M.-The river Gravona, coming from the high ridge between the Monti Renoso and d'Oro, runs between the sides of a great basin or gorge, after@wards widening out into a spacious valley to the little plain to the east of Ajaccio, where it falls into the sea. Up this valley lies the road to Corte. The way to Vico by Sariola and Sari is on the left, that to Corte keeps always in the valley of the Gravone through a green and beautiful country, much cultivated with corn, and with groups of olives growing among detached masses of granite. Beyond a single wayside house-where there are two mounted gendarmes, and two on foot, with a captured deserter from Castelluccio-the road enters the hills, and the valley narrows considerably, near what is, if I remember rightly, the Ponte d'Ucciani, the village of that name, as well as Tavaro and others, peering through clouds high up on the wooded hills far above. Vincenzo points out Ucciani thus In that village lives the father of the other coachman, Domenico, and thereby plainly shows that he is not a Corsican, for a native would first have related that it was at Ucciani that the first Napoleon was sheltered when he so narrowly escaped being destroyed at Bocognano. The Gravona, here a foaming and clear broad river, runs between fringes of foliage the wild hills around are covered with cystus growth and maquis and granite heights, now deeply purple with cloud shade, all combine to show that this would be fine scenery for walking excursions in propitious weather. At a turn of the road hereabouts two of the great timber carts are suddenly encoun@tered-no pleasant neighbours when you are driving near a precipice-edge to which there is no parapet, for where the descent is steep it is not easy to stop the mules. Gardens, corn-fields, and chesnuts, now vary the wilder scenery, and at 9.15 the hamlet of Castellano ? with a roadside diligence house is reached here is to be the mid-day halt, a pleasant quiet spot near the river, below chesnut trees which grow among grass and fern, and close to a stream abounding in watercresses, serving well for breakfast. High up on the north side of the valley, a black and desolate tract-the forest of Vero, burned not long since-stretches away like a dark curtain and it matters little that showers of rain prevent drawing, for the grim sad skeleton trees of the burned forest would make but a mournful landscape. At 10.45 it is time to move on. All the scenery of the valley of the Gravona seems of a fine and pic@turesque character, but increasing mists hid much of it towards noon. The good and broad Route Impériale, constantly ascends, and in parts steeply, at a considerable height above the river fields of green fern and gleaming spaces of blooming asphodel, their pale bright flowers shining starrily off dark foliage large masses of chesnut wood these are what I see  but the opposite side of the picture, the Monte d'Oro, which must give so much character to the pass, is lost in thick cloud, and always unseen. After i P.M. I send on the trap to Bocognano, a rash act soon repented of, as hard rain begins in earnest, and tree shelter is often necessary from time to time there are glimpses of the Gravona through the world of chesnut trees along which I pass, and at 3, when the steepest part of the ascent is overcome, the road, now level, reaches the great hollow or semicircle below Mont Renoso, on the side of which the villages of Bocognano are situated among the folds of thick wood, almost entirely chesnut, which clothe all this region. Bocognano is not, as I had imagined, a single town or village, but a collection of several hamlets scattered among the woods, some of them being only discoverable by the curling smoke from their houses. One tall campanile alone is seen in Corsica churches are not very numerous. The chief hamlet of Bocognano 71, the first reached from Ajaccio, from which it is distant forty kilomètres, is not in itself picturesque. The main road forms the high street, the houses of which it consists being nearly all of an ordinary kind, white-washed, with dark wooden window shutters and roofs, very rustic, and with much of that sombre dull look common to most Corsican buildings. Detached buildings are built above and below the village, as well as beyond it on the road to Corte, all more or less hidden by the luxuriant ches@nut trees which grow on every side. Half-way through the hamlet, on the left hand, is a humble Locanda, called Café des Amis, and here, again, the interior, as is so frequently noticeable in this island, is far better than the out@side promises, the hotel consisting of two very decent and clean bed-rooms, and a rather bare sitting-room, the latter adorned with representations of the life of Napoleon I., the former with a few prints of a religious character. Of the two dormitories I choose the least and worst furnished, because it looks out over the magnificent valley of chesnut woods towards Monte d'Oro, so that if to-morrow's sunrise should prove fine, I have my work immediately before me. Meanwhile, pouring rain continuing to fall, a change of clothes, rest, and writing up journal till 5 P.M., are the order of the day for the present. 5.30 P.M.-M. Berlandi calls-the Maréchal de Logis de Gendarmerie-to  I had formerly travelled from Corte.-Boswell, p. 358. Bocognano is at the foot of Monte d'Oro, and consists of ten hamlets, or knots of houses, embosomed in a forest of chesnut-trees of surprising size and of the most picturesque forms. These hamlets are scattered very capriciously the houses are built of unwrought stone, and do not exceed two storeys.-Bennet, p. 15. Bocognano has some factories of coarse Corsican cloth, called pelone. The appearance of these rustic houses causes a satisfaction not inspired by more majestic buildings, when one reflects on the custom which exists here and in some other villages of the island. If an inhabitant builds a house, the neighbours on each Sunday, on coming from mass, carry him one load of stones, a voluntary and mutual tax.@-@Valery, i., p. 149. Bocognano, near the entrance of the wild defile of Vizzavona. It is surrounded by dark mountains covered with wood, and having snow-clad summits and the whole district bears a solemn grandiose character.@-@Gregorovius, p. 343.  le Commandant Lambert has given me a note which I had forwarded on arriving a polite and pleasant fellow, who offers me any assistance I may require. I beg that to-morrow he will show me the house from which the first Napoleon escaped, but require nothing else now that I have found a lodging-about my doing which M. Lambert was in doubt, since sometimes in these places the only inn happens to be full, and then your letter to any one in authority is of great use. M. Berlandi tells me that he was away when I arrived, searching, with nearly all the people of the Bocognano villages, for a poor half-witted youth, who has now been missing for four days. He says that every year deaths occur in these mountains from children or old persons losing their way in the thick maquis, or from being caught, high up in the hills, by snow storms. Last autumn two little girls strayed from their home, only to be found or rather their skeletons when the snow melted, a month or two ago. Dinner follows, and by no means a bad one for a little roadside inn very decent soup, eggs and ham, good stewed mutton, a dish of excellent trout, broccio, and good wine. Might not a man live here very tolerably for ever so long a summer ? This evening a fire is welcome, for Bocognano stands at a great height above the sea, and the weather is damp and chilly. At 6 P.M. the mist clears somewhat, and as it sails away, shows, as if by a curtain being partly drawn up, vast depths and breadths of grand gloom. Later, the sky clears suddenly and completely, and most astonishing is the spectacle of the immense Monte d'Oro, all at once, as if by magic, unveiled from base to summit in all its magnificence of rock and snow and where a minute before nothing was to be seen but a pale white mist, now rises a vast mountain, purple in the last shades of evening. I drew till 7.30, when darkness stopped me. I think no mountain scene has ever so much impressed me, except the view of the Jungfrau from the Wengern Alp, which this of Monte d'Oro, from its proximity and position, somewhat resembles. Here, however, there are few pastures, but everywhere grand forests of chesnut. See Plate 25. May 19.-Up by earliest daylight to draw the sublime scene from my window, Monte d'Oro and the villages of this singular place, so beautifully nestled among the wide chesnut woods. The weather seems to have become perfectly fine, which in these high mountains is more than I had looked for. 5.30 A.M. I go out to obtain, if possible, a general view of the village. Fresh and pleasant as is the air, and charming the glistening chesnut foliage, it is yet a trifle too damp by the roadside below the trees, where, in order to draw, I am obliged to take up my position. This Bocognano scenery is quite a change from what I have seen in Corsica hitherto. The great extent of ches@nut woods, mistily or distinctly seen through the blue filmy smoke rising from  distant hamlets, lit up by the sun, or overshadowed by cloud then the village, not very interesting in its forms, but having a tolerable variety of tints, brown, ochre, and gray, or its older houses, which have rich brown-madder roofs and white chimneys and lastly, above village and woods, the vast heights of Monte Renoso-streaked with snow, and appearing or vanishing as driving clouds pass over them-form hundreds of beautiful pictures. Bocognano, to those who wish to represent such scenes of mountain grandeur, with few accessories of distance, or, to such as desire to become thoroughly acquainted with the characteristics of chesnut foliage, would be a first-rate place for summer study. As I sit close to the village, I have at least the advantage of seeing all who come out of it on this side but, alas, for the joyous singing of Italy ! and for the gay dresses and beautiful laughing faces of Italian mountain girls as they leave the town for their work in the country ! here all things are triste and mute mopy men in black, their hands in their pockets, lead out a single black goat to some pasture, the rope fastened to their arm women in black dresses, and black kerchiefed, and with grave though not unpleasing faces, and grave manners, also lead forth one goat apiece. Slowly and lazily walk the men, slowly the women-mournful Corsican mountain homes and inhabitants. But on the other hand I am allowed to draw quite unmolested two or three boys on their way to school stop to look at my work, and make intelligent remarks on it, but avoid giving me the least annoyance, some of them rebuk@ing others if they stand ever so little in my way and when, on more of them gathering round me, I suggest that it would be better they should go to school, one of the children says, quietly, E vero, sarebbe meglio, andiam -It is true, it would be better, let us go -and away they all walk. I never was in any country where so little trouble was given me by bystanders. A walk through and beyond the village next occupied me on the whole an air of neatness and tranquillity pervades it. Children are numerous but not idle, for one and all carry books, and are on their way to school. There are many pigs, too, for it is a land of chesnuts, and the hams and sausages of the chesnut-fed are famous. As I returned, M. Berlandi joined mc, and took me to see the house from which Napoleon I. so narrowly escaped with life in 1780, when pursued by his enemies of the Pozzo di Borgo faction. The building is now the caserne of the gendarmerie, and near one of the windows there formerly grew a tree, by the aid of whose branches the young Napoleon was enabled to leave the house at night and to fly to Ucciani, a village not far off, where the family Poggiani protected him. My informants state that at the death of the first emperor several persons of Ucciani received legacies of 5,000 and 6,000 francs, and that their descendants are still much favoured by Napoleon III. @@@@ 7.15.-It is time to begin the day's journey, which is to be as far as Vivario at least. Of Paolo Mufraggi, landlord of the little Café des Amis, at Bocognano, it may be noted that his charges for yesterday's board and lodging and a substantial breakfast for to-day are extremely moderate, and that he himself is most civil and obliging. As you pass out of the woody amphitheatre which half circles Bocognano there are beautiful views looking back to the church and villages.73 After passing the last hamlet the ascent is steep, the road winding up always in face  Monte d'Oro, divided from it by a deep hollow, narrower and clothed less with chesnut and more with maquis as you mount higher. The scenery of this wild pass is of a vast impressive character, but not very drawable, at least without longer time for study on the left, the heights of Monte d'Oro are bleak and savage on the right through a lateral gorge are seen grand glimpses of the snowy Renoso looking westward down the pass there are beautiful views of the valley of the Gravona, intricate folds of hill, and windings of river. And now, at 9 A.M., great beech-woods are reached-green, shady, delightful, silver-stemmed, their feathering foliage  Bocognano was enchanting lofty snow-topped mountains, extensive groves, rocks, and torrents, all of the wildest kind, were the chief objects. The smoke of the village rising among the chesnuts was almost the only thing that associated man with the scene.-Benson, p. 18.8 with the pearly lilac hills of Ajaccio. And down the pass from the Bocca comes a long train of six of the huge timber-carts, each drawn by ten or twelve mules, descending at a pace that would not be without risk to a carriage happening to meet them abruptly at one of the many sharp turns of the pass before there was time to halt the  9.15 reach the top of the pass or Bocca at the forty-ninth kilomètre from Ajaccio , a ridge, from which on one side the water flows westward to the gulf of Ajaccio, and on the other into the Tavignano to Aleria on the east coast. 74 At this height the air is sufficiently cold to make a cloak welcome. I linger to make a drawing below a ruined house or tower, and then, sending on Vincenzo and the trap to Vivario, twelve or thirteen kilomètres ahead, commence the descent through the great forest of Vizzavona. The scenery of the whole of this walk does not, it seems to me, rival that of the three forests I have previously seen the upper part of it is all beech of great beauty, but the distance is much hidden by the trees, and this is the case also on reaching the pines, of which, at least near the road, I see no specimens equalling those of Bavella, Aitone, or Valdoniello. And, after having stopped at noon to breakfast by a streamlet, at a grassy space purpled with violets, the lower part of this great Vizzavona forest is extremely disappointing in its appearance, for it was ravaged a few years ago by a very destructive conflagration. The black charred trunks of the tall pines make but a melancholy foreground to the distance, which now opens out more widely towards the range of Monte Rotondo and remoter blue hills beyond a deep valley, above which the eastern side of Monte d'Oro is clothed with fine forest and in all the descent I find neither scope for the pencil nor great subject for admiration. The forest of Vizzavona, lying on the direct road from Bastia to Ajaccio, is more known and talked of than any other in the island, so that my expectations had been, perhaps, unreasonable as to its magnificence moreover, it has been the scene of many of the stories of bandits, of whom but four years ago some of the last were hunted from these wild and dark heights, where, if report speaks truly, some, harmless to the traveller, are still living, the precise locality of their abode known but to a faithful few. At I P.M. I come to the end of the burned forest, and gladly, for it only presents the deplorable spectacle of a harsh dead world of naked pine trunks and bristling brown branches. An old cantonnier-the only living being I have seen since leaving Bocognano, except the muleteers who accompanied the timber-carts-says the fire here took place in 1866, and burned for three days, and that all the Vizzavona forest would have been destroyed had  wild and lonely situation in the mountain of Vivario. @The great valley of the Tavignano closes in here, and an elevated ridge forms the water-shed between it and the Gravona, which flows in the opposite direction, south-west to Ajaccio.-Gregorovius, p.  of the surrounding villages worked hard to prevent its spread by cutting down trees beyond its limits. Two carriages now appear-strange sight in these lonely woods ! One contains the Bishop of Ajaccio returning from the fête at Corte the second is that I came in to Bocognano at Vivario says Vincenzo Flora and Co. are waiting for me. At 3 the house roofs of that village are seen, deep and far below the steep zig-zags which I am descending little, however, am I tempted to stop for drawing, so vast and so full of multitudinous detail are the great mountain buttresses of Monte d'Oro and Monte Rotondo, filling up all the picture, and defying any attempt to give an idea of their bulky magni@ficence. Small were the hills, Latin or Sabine, edging the Roman campagna -small the delicate distances of Argos or Bassae but all were refined and beautiful. To me these Corsican Alps, like their Swiss brethren, seem generally more awful than lovely. Vivario, situated at the foot of these great mountains, is a compact little village, and a picturesque scene might be made of it with ample time for studying the gigantic details around it to-day, however, the heights are quite cloud-capped on all sides, and as in any case I must return thus far on my way back to Ajaccio, it is a question whether getting on to Serraggio for to-night is not my best policy for the present. The latter village is seen clearly from here, as well as much of the road to Corte, running along the flanks of Monte Rotondo, and ascending to the woods of Santa Maria di Venaco. Flora, espying me from a long way off, comes to greet me at the entrance of Vivario.75 This village, which is distant sixty-two kilomètres from Ajaccio, is not so prepossessing in its interior as externally. In the piazza is a fountain with a statue, but the rustic houses are not in very exact keeping with this embellishment. Domenico shows me the hotel of Vivario, standing in a queer little alley, but some people, of whom there are plenty lounging about, inform me that it is quite full and this, combined with increasing cloud and the prospect of passing the afternoon here to no purpose, finally decides me on going on now, and taking the chance of better fortune on my return. 3.30 P.M.-Off to Serraggio, and perhaps even on as far as Corte it is impossible in this kind of journey to be sure as to one's halting place before@hand. The road runs immediately below the great Monte Rotondo, and at certain points passes some magnificent scenes, especially one at the bridge over the river Vecchio@76-it runs from the forest of Vizzavona to the  inhabitants. On the threshold of the church, an old mortuary stone, with an escutcheon but no name, has these words in large characters@- Maledictus qui percussit clàm proximum suum, et dicat omnis populus, Amen. A mysterious anathema, which has been so effective, that for more than a century and a half no murder has been committed in the town.-Valery, i., p. 167. 76 Soon @after we left Vivario we came to a torrent, over which is a wooden bridge called Ponte  I must return to draw. So far from Vivario the way is level or down hill, but beyond the bridge the ascent commences that con@tinues to S. Pietro di Venaco. The scenery is more cheerful than that of the great passes in the centre of the island the hills on the right hand which shut in the valley of Ghisoni gradually opening out into views of the more distant and smiling valleys towards the Tavignano and the sea.. Unusual liveliness, too, for Corsica, is added to the road by a good many cars being met with, containing people returning from the Corte fête, though hardly any colour brightens their dark and gloomy costume. By 4.20 we have rattled up the hill at a great rate, and Serraggio is reached -a considerable village, standing among chesnut groves under the great heights of Monte Rotondo, and with beautiful views looking back to Vivario, and eastward towards the sea. There is, says Domenico, a hotel here but as Corte is now so near I resolve to go on at once to Paoli's former capital, and leave whatever is to be done hereabouts till my return. Only I halt to inquire for the Moufflon, of which Miss C. tells me they have a very fine living speci@men, taken in the course of last winter, now in the village. That animal, however, I find, has been taken to be exhibited at Corte. A little beyond Serraggio is a smaller village, Lugo, at which the abundance of children seemed the most observable characteristic thence the road winds steeply up to Sta. Maria di Venaco, a village on the highest point of the road between Vivario and Corte. 77 All the scenery about here is doubtless beautiful the chesnut woods are noble, and at times a sunny gleam lights up the farther hills towards the coast, but heavy rain begins to fall, and forthwith clouds blot out the landscape, which, nevertheless, it has been easy to perceive is among the most interesting in the island. The rain ceases during the descent to the valley of the Tavignano, so that the approach to the old Corsican stronghold is well seen. 78 There, backed by the lofty mountains which divide this district and its fortress city from all the western side of the island, stands Corte-Corte so rich in associations of the  that Paoli bade adieu to his followers when the French first conquered the island in 1769.-Benson, p. 26. 77 In the midst of the ruins of the chapel of St. Pierre, at Serraggio, near Vivario, is an apple-tree, the fruit of which has angles pointing to those of the church, architectural delicacies which the village children pluck before they are ripe, from devotion, say the villagers, though possibly from greediness. Venaco, once illustrious as the dwelling of Bel Messer, is now in credit for producing the best cheese in the island. Bel Messer, one of the signori of the tenth century, was, like Henry IV., beloved by the people, and, like him, died assassinated. Great was the grief of all Corsica at the tidings of his death and it became a tradition that a voice was heard in the air, crying, Bel Messer is dead unhappy Corsica, hope no more for any good ! -Valery, i., p. 146. Nothing can be brighter and more cheerful than the landscape of the canton of Serraggio, which was the former piève of Venaco..... On the green hills of Venaco nine ghosts are often seen wandering by night these are the ghosts of Bel Messere, his wife, and the seven poor children who were drowned in the little lake of the seven bowls.-Gregorovius, p. 341. 78 In the centre of the island stands Corte, which is properly its capital, and will undoubtedly be one day a city of eminence, c. It is situated part at the foot, and part at the declivity of a rock,o its capital under the rule of General Paoli, and the focus of all the national liberty for centuries. Even from the distance at which I now stand from it, it is evidently an imposingly situated and highly pic@turesque place, and stands-a pyramid of buildings crowned by a citadel-but a short way from the base of the high mountain wall, whence, from the heights Mounts Artica and Rotondo 79 issue forth the rivers Restonica and Tavignano by two gorges, uniting just below the city, to flow through what is thenceforth called the valley of the Tavignano, but which is, in the vicinity of Corte, almost a little plain, with a boundary of low hills stretching towards the eastern sea.  at the conflux of two rivers, c. It hath a great deal of rich country about it, and a wonderful natural strength, being hemmed in by almost impassable mountains, and narrow defiles, which may be defended with a handful of men against very large armies. Upon a point of the rock, prominent above the rest, and on every side perpendicular, stands the castle or citadel. It is at the back of the town, and is almost impregnable, there being only one winding passage to climb up to it, and that not capable of admitting more than two persons abreast, c.-Boswell, p. 30. Corte, which at present counts 33,000 inhabitants, was the favourite city of Paoli, and the capital of his rising state. It might well, indeed, by its position, become the key of the island in time of war, by intercepting communications, and by being able to despatch troops to any point in forty-eight hours. The citadel-an old castle built in the early part of the fifteenth century by the brilliant and unfortunate Viceroy of Corsica, Vincitello d'Istria-is close to the barracks. On the west side of it is an abyss where, at the foot of perpendicular rocks, rushes the Tavignano, and it is by this terrible descent that Corsicans detained in the citadel have sometimes escaped from it-creeping to a rock close below t@he parapet, and then sliding down boldly to the bottom. The Gaffori family and their adherents, seventeen in number, escaped thus in the night by means of cords..... After the palace of Paoli, I visited the house of Gaffori, which is riddled by the balls fired by the Genoese whom Gaffori besieged there in 1745. His child, given up by its nurse to the besieged, had been exposed by them in the breach in order to stop the firing, but Gaffori, unmoved by this, ordered the cannonade to continue, saying, I was a citizen before I was a father -a heroism well rewarded, for the citadel was taken, and the child was not hurt. The Gaffori, originally of Corte, still possess their family house, and religiously preserve the Genoese bullets, c. This house of Gaffori was inhabited in 1868 by Madame Letitia, and her husband Charles Buonaparte.@-@Valery, i., p. 132. Corte is truly the national city of Corsica a stronghold of the Saracens in the ninth century, it was taken from the Genoese in 1419, to fall again into their hands in 1456. De Thermes took it in 1553 in 1564, during the war of Sampiero, they were expelled from it by the Corsicans, but retook it after a bloody and murderous siege in 1734 the place was carried by the French, and the national Corsican army only retook it in 1745. In 1762 the deputies from the pièves assembled there and in 1768 Paoli convoked there his last assembly. The French took it after the battle of Ponte Nuovo. At first sight it would seem that Corte, almost in the centre of Corsica, satisfies the double conditions of relations with the interior on one part, and on the other with France and the continent. The outer civilisation has very imperfectly penetrated Corte, and its manners have remained what they were when Paoli made it the capital of the island. It was then in truth the feudal capital of Corsica, with its girdle of gorges, ravines, and mountains, its fortress built on a pointed rock at the confluence of the Tavignano and Restonica. But its place as the first city of Corsica would require that the produce of all the principal valleys should be concentrated there with equal facility, which cannot be well looked for.@-Grandchamps, pp. 45, 46. 79 From the Monte Rotondo assuredly one of the finest views in Europe is to be seen, including the whole of Corsica, with the exception of the charming Balagna, which is hidden by the Monte Cinto the coast of @France and Italy from Nice to Civita Vecchia, the Alps, the Apennines, and the islands of Sardinia, Elba, Capraija, and Monte Cristo. The ascent of the mountain requires two days you must sleep at a shepherd's hut, where the mules can rest till the next day, and then at dawn you must climb to the summit without loss of time in order to arrive there before the morning clouds efface the horizon. @The mountain of Campotile contains two lakes, differently interesting, and not very inaccessible the Creno, solemn, deep, moaning, mysterious, sung of in legends the Ino, among rocks with  All round this interesting city the ground is cultivated mostly in vineyards or corn-fields, and it would be difficult to imagine a town more finely placed, at least for pictorial purposes, than Corte. Sending on Domenico to the H6tel de l'Europe, I draw till nearly 6, from a part of the descent command@ing good views of the town and spacious valley, and not far from the celebrated convent where Paoli lived, 80 now in process of restoration, and then go onward, diverging for a little while to a sort of platform or promenade on the banks of the Tavignano, where a grove of chesnut trees bordering the stream forms a wonderfully good foreground to the city and mountains, and where I perceive plenty of work for to-morrow. Corte is approached from the side of Ajaccio by two fine bridges, built above the two torrents, and is placed on a high rock, on the upper parts of which houses are perched and wedged in every possible vantage ground and corner, its lower space being occupied by rows of great houses, not wholly divested of the magnified domino or warehouse likeness, but far more picturesque in their combined groups than those of most Corsican towns. Altogether, Corte must be acknowledged to be a grand place as to the general aspect of its exterior.81 See Plate  well filled with trout. The Liamone and the Tavignano come from the Creno, the Golo from Lake Ino. The Scala di Santa Regina, leading to Corte, is not so bad as to merit the formidable name of Ladder, it is a long and stony descent easy enough to accomplish wit@h attention to one's footsteps.@-@Valery, i., p. 124. There is a long and interesting chapter describing the ascent of Monte Rotondo in Gregorovius and the detailed narrative of his visit to the shepherds is full of poetical charm.-E. L. The herdsmen live dispersed in caverns or cabins, on the declivities of Monte Rotondo, up to the ridge of which their herds climb. The last herdsmen's hamlets are at a height of more than 5,000 feet above the sea-level their curious stations have each its peculiar name. Fetch the broccio, said the herdsman, that is the best thing we have, and you'll like it. I was curious about the broccio, for I had heard it praised even in Corte as the great dainty of the island, and as the flower of the herdsman's industry. Santa brought a round covered basket, which she set before me and untied in it lay the broccio, white as snow. It is a kind of sweet curdled goat's milk, which, taken with rum and sugar, is undoubtedly a dainty. The poor herdsmen sell a broccio-cake in the town for from one to two francs.-Gregorovius, p. 328. According to M. Arago, Monte Rotondo is 2,762 mètres-about 8,976 feet-above the level of the sea, and that there are seven others exceeding 2,000 metres 6,500 feet among them, Mount d'Oro, 2,653 metres 8,622 feet . Forester says that at the end of October none but these two peaks were covered with snow, and he inclines to assign the height of 7,500 or 8,000 feet above the level of the Mediterranean as the line of perpetual snow in Corsica. In Chapter XVIII. is an interesting account of an excursion to the forest on the borders of the Niolo.-E. L. 80 On the side of the hill to the south of the city there is a convent of Franciscans. Here the General lived while his palace was repairing and here all strangers of respect are lodged. From this convent one has the best view of the city of Corte. The learned and ingenious Messieurs Hervey and Burnaby, when they were at this convent, were greatly struck by the romantic appearance of Corte. We could scarcely help fancying ourselves at Lacedemon, or some other ancient city, c. On one of the days that my ague disturbed me the least, I walked from the convent to Corte, pur@posely to write a letter to Mr. Samuel Johnson.-Bos@well, p. 32. The convent of S. Francis, close to Corte, now in ruins, was magnificent General Paoli had large rooms there. During the war of independence the church served as a place of assembly for the state, and the pulpit was the tribune.@-@Valery, i., p. 136. 81 There are but really few good houses in the town the Duc de Padoue's is decidedly the best.  dusk when I entered the city. Long ranges of many-windowed and very lofty houses form one side of the main road, which rises steeply to the centre and more level part of the town, and no lack is there here of bustle and life compared with the quiet of Ajaccio even the swarms of children seem still more abundant. Suddenly, at the opening of the high street, running at right angles to this first approach, transparencies and illuminations, bands of music, crowds of people, and universal movement, greet my astonished senses. I had thought the bitterness and noise of fêtes was over with Sunday, but, on the contrary, this, the last of the three days, is the most violent and fuss-ful of the whole time allotted to rejoicing on this occasion, that of unveiling a statue of Marshal the Duc de Padoue, one of the first Napoleon's generals, and a native of Corte. Every place was thronged, and it was with difficulty I could get through the crowd to the Piazza, and thence to the Hotel de l'Europe. Here all was bustle and confusion. There were no vacant rooms and as to where Domenico and my luggage might be found, no answer could be got the general festivity seemed to have turned the heads of the good people of Corte. Group after group of people to whom I applied shrugged their ignorance on the subject. Nor were the efforts of Giorgio to find our driver and roba more fortunate, and we were meditating-as at Montenegro in 1866-on the possible chance of passing the night in the street, when I remembered that M. Merimée had procured me an introduction to Signor Corteggiani, President of the Tribunals, and residing in Corte. In such a difficulty, application to one of the gendarmerie is usually the best proceeding, and had I asked M. Lambert for a letter, I could have been saved all trouble, though Corte is not in his district as it was, a gendarme took me to the Judge's house, though this was a step but little in advance, for M. Corteggiani was giving a dinner to the Duke, the General, and others, and the servants would not deliver my letter until next day. Meanwhile, as I remained on the staircase with the gendarme and others, that functionary, who had evidently entered fully into the festal hilarities of the day, made an absurd scene by shouting, Proclaim your rank ! call aloud your title ! We gendarmes are the heart and beginning of all justice ! we will see everything done for you ! till a domestic, thinking it would be wiser to end the matter at once, rushed up-stairs with the letter, and shortly brought down the Judge's secretary, with directions to show me a lodging, and to apologise for his not being able to receive me at the moment. Accordingly, I was taken to a tiny house, with a very dirty entrance,  and so is that of the Gaffori family, on the Piazza, near the Mairie. Gaffori's, marked with shot-holes, is intimately connected with Corsican history.-Benson, p. 30. I had heard much of the rudeness and of the independence of the people of Corte, of its violent Vendette, of its contempt for authority, of the party-spirit of its men, even of its children. The number of assassinations, murders, and attempts at these crimes in Corte during the twelve years from 1822 to 1834 had surpassed in number those of all the rest of the island.@-@Valery, i., p. 126.  one available decent bed-room, and a sort of public chamber, where they promised some supper. G. shortly joined me, with two wild-looking individuals bringing up the roba but these men, being in a festive and elated state, asked fabulous sums for each article, and on G. refusing to pay so much, a row ensued. The most outrageous of the savage men kicked a saddle-bag down-stairs, and was proceeding to further violence, when a compromise was come to by aid of the gendarme, and peace was finally restored. I had previously been told that the people of Corte had the reputation of being dirtier and more turbulent than any in the island, and, however unwilling to harbour unfavourable impressions, my first hour in this place tends to make me think the character is not undeserved. Throughout all this hullabaloo, the people of the house-Andrei, a man and his two daughters-took no part in it, and after the savage porters had gone, were civil and kindly after their fashion, and provided a tolerable supper. G. puts up my camp-bed in the next room to the public one but has a less chance of a night's rest than even mine, on a chair in the salon. Already these small apartments are more than full, and others are flocking into the house. Sleep, at least during the fête of the Duc de Padoue's statue, is not to be looked for in the capital of Paoli's  landlord of the Hotel de l'Europe, for whom the excitement and possibly the good cheer of the three days' fête necessitate some allowance, apologised very fully for his inattention, not to say rudeness and as I have heard his hotel well spoken of, I am willing to think that the nineteenth of May, 1868, was an exceptional day in his history.  VIII. Reflections on the Difficulty experienced in Drawing Landscape@-@Call on M. Corteggiani@-@Visit to the House of Gaffori, Citadel, c.-Views of Corte-Dinner at M. Corteggiani's -@Corte from above the River Tavignano-Statue of Paoli-Red Deer-View of Corte from the Bas@tia Road-Leave Corte-White Umbrellas-Road along the Valley of the Tavignano-Distant view of the Fiumorbo Plains and Casabianda-Halt to Draw Aleria-Arrive at Casabianda -@Kind Reception by M. and Mdme. Beurville-M. de la Hitolle-Pleasant Dinner and Evening-French Riddles-Early Rising and Drawing-Noble View of the Plains and Mountains@-Leave Casabianda-Memories of the Roman Campagna-Undulating Plain-Deserted Tracts of Country -Bee Eaters-Approach to Cervione-Cultivation-Pleasant Lanes and Green Foliage-Reach Cervione-Its Position-The Inn-Return to the Bastia Road-Turn off towards Vescovato-Walk up to the Town-Beautiful Approach-Numerous Peasants returning Home-Picturesque Appearance of Vescovato-M. Gravie's Lodging-His Conversation. May 20.-No sleep, for there was noise all night long this, together with having been more or less unwell yesterday, make it difficult for me to rise, but the bare prospect of passing an hour more than is absolutely necessary in this dwelling gives me energy to set off at 5.15 to the Restonica Bridge, near which I drew till 7. Why does it seem a law established by destiny that the best points for making landscape drawings are so frequently in dangerous, uncomfortable, or filthy spots ? If your drawing is to be made in the country, why are you compelled to sit in a narrow and frequented mule-track, at the edge of a precipice, or below a crumbling rock, simply on account of the distance of a foot right or left preventing your seeing your subject owing to some interven@ing obstacle ? If in a town, why for a similar cause does the top of a wall, the centre of a thronged street, or the vicinity of an immondezzaio, become your inevitable seat ? And oh, painter, if you go to Corte ever beware of studying below the houses thereof, lest the sudden opening of windows cause you eternal regret ! These bitter reflections are prompted by the draw@ing I am making from the river bank, where my only possible position in order to see what I want is on a narrow strip of ground between the torrent and a wall, and as every five minutes there comes a vexatious mule along with a wide load of wood, I am as often obliged, for fear of a concussion, to mount the wall suddenly, while G. gathers up my folio and materials. But the view is beautifully picturesque the rugged simplicity of Corte architecture agrees well with the proud and strong position of the citadel rock, standing out from a mountain background of the sternest sort. Hardly able to bear up against warnings of fever, I next go to the chesnut grove beyond the junction of the two rivers, where a sort of esplanade has some benches at its borders. Few town pictures can be  than that of Corte from this spot the large trees grow on a slope quite down to the clear rushing water, and form a delightfully shady walk, particularly grateful now that the sun's heat is daily getting more powerful. I cannot as yet, however, from what I@ have seen of Corte, understand why some have thought of it as a place suited for the summer abode of invalids. Its position must be one of great heat during the summer months, as it is exposed to the sun from its first rising, and notwithstanding that the chesnut grove where I now am is pleasantly shady, yet a long and hot walk has to be accomplished to reach it and, excepting the public allée or avenue on the further side of the town, there is no other shelter. In winter, from its situation close to great mountains immediately above it, and the two windy ravines behind the town, Corte must be as subject to extreme cold as to heat in summer.83 See Plate 28. At 9 I return to the high street, and finding that M. le Président Corteggiani has twice called on me, lose no time in returning his visit. At first, his nephew, a pleasant fellow, receives me, and then the Judge, a kindly gentleman, very profuse of apologies, no wise needed by me, regarding his inability to receive me last night-how he had gone to the landlord of the Europe Hotel, and had made des sévères reproches, and how that person had acknowledged the justice of his reproof. I decline with thanks his offer of a room in his house, but accept, though very far from well, an invitation to dine with him at 6 this evening, and in the meantime M. Corteggiani promises to send some one at noon who is to show me the principal lions of Corte, such as Gaffori's house, c. So I return to my hotel, and devote the next three hours to quinine, and to the endeavour to get some rest-the last an unattainable blessing in this noisy little den, where some twenty people are breakfasting on one side of my room, and on the other a family of screaming children wake the echoes of all the walls. At noon I go up the steep and narrow paved streets with a cicerone who is very Corsican and ultra-liberal in his views of things in general. He shows me the house of Gaffori, the front riddled with the balls of the Genoese there are still members of the Gaffori family residing in it , and that of General Paoli but as I am too unwell to go into these, or to mount higher towards the citadel, I return to the inn by a lower route, pausing only below the rock to make a drawing of that part of the castle from which, in 1745, the famous escape of the Gaffori prisoners took place-ail which lionising is effected with no slight difficulty. See Vignette, p. 171. One more effort is to be made to complete the drawing I commenced  impelled the Abbé Galletti to write, One sees at Corte shops full of every kind of merchandise luxuriously fitted up cafés, and hotels where nothing of the comfortable is wanting ! -Galletti, 209.  afternoon on the road leading down from Sta. Maria di Venaco thither, therefore, I go, and return to the hotel by 4.30. In Corte the little girls are almost all pretty, and nearly without exception fair, with pale or yellow hair like English children they grow up darker, and get a coarser look, though on the whole there seems a good deal of female  Corte, albeit, perhaps, of a stern rather than a genial expression. As for the boys, who are legion, they are sturdy but ugly little  6 P.M., much against my inclination, I go to M. Corteggiani's, making a strong effort to do so, rather than send an excuse, which my last night's misadventures might cause to be imputed to touchiness. I find M. le President a plain, pleasant gentleman the only persons at the  himself and me were two nephews, one of them, M. Antonio Gatta, a lively and intelligent young man, who, residing at Bastia, is well ac@quainted with that part of the island, and who gave me much information about distances in Cap Corse, the Balagna, c. This last district, as well as the valley of Luri, I am counselled by no means to omit visiting. He also gives me a list of published memoirs of Paoli, and of other books on Corsica, c., c., which I shall probably find of use. The dinner was plentiful, good, and well served, and I thought it amiable of President Corteggiani, who had been dining or dined for four days past in all the fatigues of a noisy fête, to have invited me. The wine from his own estate, a good ordinaire, seemed to me some of the best I have tasted in Corsica. At 8.30 I took leave, one of the nephews accompanying me to the hotel door, and now, notwithstanding the incessant noise in the next room, am glad to get to my camp-bed, which is ready for my early return. May 21, 4 A.M.-Early rising, were it pleasant nowhere else, would be so in this hotel, where noise and other indescribable objections make egress very desirable. At a café good coffee is obtained at twenty-five centimes a head, and the sun was only rising when I was down at the esplanade drawing the picturesque town above, the cool river gleaming between the dark chesnut foliage, and standing out on its bold rock away from any overhanging moun@tains. Indeed, the front, so to speak, of Corte catches the whole glare of day from the moment of the sun's rising till late in the afternoon, and it is only for about an hour after sunrise at this season that the shadows of the buildings and rock relieve so beautifully off the fine background soon all is shadeless till afternoon, when the whole is in broad shade unbroken by lights. The upper part of the rock is of a dark gray-brown colour, cactus-covered at its points and crevices, and all the upper houses are similarly of dark brown or gray material, the windows bordered with white. One church only I have seen in the town, and that not at all remarkable in its appearance. 7.30.-I return through the town from the ascent to it the eastward view down the valley of the Tavignano has much that is graceful and pretty. Prettiness, however, is far from being the characteristic one should seek to express here, at the stern capital of Paoli, where the rugged and positive lines of scenery harmonise well with the history of the fierce struggles and bitter revenges of Corsican life. Not a part of this rock-pyramid but must have been fought over, and blood-covered no precipitous wall of either of the two ravines, no pinnacle of the granite heights above, but must have echoed the wild cries of victory and defeat from the Pisan and Genoese wars down to the last battle with the men of Genoa in Gaf@fori's time. Before going to the inn I stroll into the Piazza, where stands a statue of Pasquale Paoli a tame hornless deer is walking about, and some persons  me that it is a small red-deer of a kind peculiar to Corsica. 84 As for Miss C.'s Moufflon, I again make earnest endeavours to see that remarkable beast, who is evidently exclusive in his habits and difficult of acquaintance-three days ago he again started on his travels to be exhibited at  in wandering about yesterday, when I was too unwell to go out, dis@covered1 what he says is a good view of Corte on the Bastia road, so I go thither, and finding it to be so, draw there till 9. The whole city is beauti@fully seen from this side, and has, from its northern approach, the most com@manding and grand character of any town, I imagine, in Corsica its large houses cluster in well-composed lines up to the barracks and citadel apex, and the noble outline of the double mountain background makes a magnificent finish to the picture. See Plate 29. From Bastia the entrance to Corte is by an avenue of trees, but this boulevard is so frequented that it can hardly be called a country walk. On one side of it, in a little Piazza, is the brand-new statue of Arrighi, Duc de Padoue. At 9.30 breakfast at Pietro Giovanni Andrei's inn its proprietors, a father and two gentle and graceful daughters, are pleasant and obliging, and their charges very moderate but as their tiny house is merely a locanda of the commonest sort, and chiefly frequented by the gendarmerie and country people, it should not be a matter of complaint that it does not come up to the standard of comfort we northern travellers desire.85 At 10 all is ready a taking of quinine pills not excepted for the start to my next halt at Casabianda@-that place so eminently full of fever-danger as the summer advances, yet to which I am determined to risk another visit for the sake of getting better drawings there than I obtained on April 26. Adieu Corte ! a crowd of whose inhabitants gaze on my departure from windows, and a multitude of whose children collect round the trap, Flora and Co. Adieu, Corte ! you are picturesque, venerable, historic, liberty -@loving 84 The Corsican cerf is like the red deer. Their colour is ferruginous. In size they are a little larger than fallow deer, with a heavier body, and stronger horns, springing upright, spreading less than any other variety, and slightly palmated.-Forester, p. 192. The deer, Cervus Corsicanus, is, I believe, altogether peculiar to the island, and is supposed by some to be a variety of the red deer, Cervus elaphos ..@. the animal is much smaller and more compact than the red deer but there are also differences in the colour of the fur and in the branching of the ho@rns.-Ha@wker, p. 306. M. Grandchamps severely censures the want of cleanliness in certain of the towns and villages of Corsica, from which dangerous illnesses arise. The filth of all sorts, c.-p. 145. 85 When one wanders now through the dead stillness of the little town, where miserable looking Corsicans are standing about under shady elms, as if they were trying to dream away the day and the world, one can scarcely conceive that hardly a hundred years ago, the most enlightened political wisdom had taken up its abode in such an obscure corner of the earth.-Gregorovius, p. 323. Calling at the café in the Corso,..... we find it as before, dirty, disorderly, and noisy. Where, we ask ourselves, are the gentlemen of Corte ? But what has any one above the classes who toil for a livelihood to do in Corte except to lounge the long day under the melancholy elms in the Corso, and while away the evenings by petty gambling in its wretched cafés ?-Forester, p. 163.  until your drainage is overhauled and remodelled, and until cleanliness is in a greater degree recognised as a virtue by your population, I should not wish to make any of your houses my home. Domenico says there are seventy kilomètres to Casabianda, but I doubt if it can be so far. I propose to go from that place to Bastia in two days, if this can be easily done, as I think it may be, because the whole distance is on comparatively level road, and the ponies will have a whole day's rest at Bastia. Of the beautiful district Catinca I fear I shall see but little, if anything, for there are Cap Corse and the Balagna to visit before returning to Ajaccio perhaps I may succeed in getting to see Cervione and Vescovato. Meanwhile, it is a relief to have left the small and dirty rooms, the bad smells, and the noise of Corte. On the road, which for a short distance is that to Vivario, several parties are leaving the town in cars for their country abodes after all, it must be remembered that I have seen Corte under a very exceptional state of things among these there are hardly any one who does not carry a white umbrella, a sign that the heat, even now very considerable, is not thought lightly of by the natives. 86 The road to the coast soon leaves that to Ajaccio, and following the course of the Tavignano as it winds among low hills, Corte is soon lost to sight scattered cork and ilex groves are passed and after a little while granite rocks, flowering cystus, and a line of snowy heights behind and to the right, are the features of the landscape. Presently the valley becomes deeper and narrower, and all horizon is shut out we rattle rapidly down the good broad road, running not far above the river between low hills, covered with wild verdure, or here and there with patches of grain. One might be in Devonshire, and not in the prettiest part either. 11.30 A.M.-At the seventeenth kilomètre from Corte we get over about twelve kilomètres the hour on the down-hill journey the Tavignano is crossed by a three-arched bridge near it is a little church which seems to be a structure of Pisan times, and not to sketch it occasions a moment of regret but the day's work may be long, so we hurry on-as the poet says, What time have I to be sad ? Ever the road winds along the green valley, now at the edge of high cliffs, where the somewhat too rapid course of Domenico has now and then to be checked, now, at the twenty-second kilomètre, passing a wayside house or two, a few olive trees, and scanty shreds of cultivation, dovetailed into. the green maquis and white cystus. Below flows the river, deep and fast,  @and always has the zucca, or round gourd-bottle slung round him, and often a zaino or small goatskin too and round his waist the carchera, a leathern girdle in which his cartouches are held.-Gregorovius, p. 111. A portion of dress now happily no longer used.@-E. cand always through a continuance of lonely but pretty scenery. Towards the thirty-fifth kilomètre the descent becomes more gradual, and the valley, though still winding among undulations of low green hills, begins to open out on wider spaces the Tavignano flows on a broader and shallower stream between broken banks of red earth for the region of granite is left behind and waving fields of corn and after a halt at 1 P.M. to rest the thirsty ponies, behold once more the rich and beau@tiful plains of the east side of Corsica, with Casabianda on its hill. There, stretched out in long lines, beyond the last undulations of the hills as they sink towards the coast, is the wide campagna of ancient Aleria, with its many pictures and varied interest, the vast growth of maquis and brilliant bloom of cystus, the river and the smooth corn-fields, and the blue remote forms of the crags of Mont' Incudine@-@how much of all this recalls the descent to the Roman campagna from the Sabine hills, or to some bright plain of Sicily or Greece! All along the way the flitting of gay hued bee-eaters, who make the telegraph wires their resting place, is a pretty sight enough. At 2.15 P.M. the road from Bonifacio to Bastia, and the long bridge over the Tavignano at the forty-seventh kilomètre from Corte below the fort of Aleria is reached a few warehouse-like build@ings stand near it. Here, till 3, I stop to make a drawing of the  of the broad river, soon to be lost in the great Étang de Diane the work of art I have undertaken being much abridged and hastened by the discovery that my position, in strict accordance with certain rules of destiny not long since alluded to, is close to a nest of a species of hornet, magnificent fellows of purple and burnished gold, but unpleasant as near companions.87 At 3 I start again, passing below the fort of Aleria, which is very picturesque from this side, and thoroughly Roman-campagna like the road to Casabianda is but two or three kilomètres farther, and here, sending on Domenico to the establishment with M. le Prefet's letter to M. le Directeur du Penitencier Agricole de Casabianda, I make a sacrifice to duty by trudging over ploughed fields in the hot sun to complete my unfinished drawing of April 26, adding thereto the mountain chain, which is now perfectly clear. 88 See Vignette, p. 175. No reception could be more kindly than that I met with an hour later from M. Beurville, all the more so that Madame Beurville was only recovering from illness, nor is it easy to describe, particularly after having so recently left the roughnesses of Corte, how delightful were the pleasant and clean apartments allotted to me all at once, thanks to M. Merimée, it seems that I am in Paris, or, according to the Suliot's phrase,  appears to be paradise. The director, as well as another officer of the establishment, M. de Lahitolle, a Breton gentleman, to whom I have a letter from M. Lambert, enter at once into my plans, which they soon perceive relate rather to the far away outlines of the beautiful mountain ranges than to the internal arrange@ments or exterior cultivation of the establishment. Not that the most indiffe@rent could fail to be struck with the order and good administration of this large penal settlement-which contains nearly 1,000 convicts-and with the great  whole of Corsica if well cultivated, and might be easily irrigated by the Tavignano.-Grandchamps, p. 35. The greatest part of the houses in the village of Aleria, as well as of the territory adjoining, belongs to the heirs of the Marchese Potenziani of Rieti, who married one of the daughters of Christophero Saliceti, the last possessor of the family. Many interesting details in Galletti about Galeria, discoveries of inscriptions, tombs, rings, c., Etruscan vases, coins of various dates. The Abbé G. speaks of the ruins of Aleria, an old wall of enormous thickness, some portions still two metres in height, but not of old Roman construction. A space enclosed by ruins of walls, and known as Sala Reale, or Royal Hall, portions of what is doubtless an amphitheatre, an oval, the circumference of which is 142 metres, ruins of a circus capable of holding 2,000 spectators. Other scattered portions of ruin, but not of early date-vestiges of a mole or some building serving as a defence to the entry of the port. On the Island of St. Agatha, near the mouth of the port, are ruins of a thick wall, where are seen pieces of iron to hold the rings to which ropes were attached for ships. In these walls are vases, or a kind of jars. Vast and beautiful houses, says the enthusiastic Abbé Galletti, have now risen at Aleria ! -Galletti, pp. 178, 180. M. Grandchamps, who speaks with great hope and certainty as to the future of the eastern plains, does not speak so positively about the possibility of restoring the Étang lagoon of Diana to the place it occupied as port of the Roman colony. 88 From the spurs of the chain between Aleria and Cervione some magnificent views must be obtainable.-E. L.  that in a short time has so visibly been wrought, a wide cultivation having replaced what only a few years back was totally a wilderness. But the view from the terrace below the Director's house, taking in the great central mountains of Corsica, from the Incudine to Monte Rotondo, and northward to nearly as far as the plains of ancient Mariana, is the object of greatest interest to the wandering landscape painter, whose only desire is that he may have coffee earlier than daylight, in order to be at work before the sun rises, lest vapours obscure the clear mountain outline. Then, as well as now, it is necessary, as my new acquaintance do not fail to warn me, to put on an extra coat, as the air of Aleria is, even at this season, dangerous at early morning and towards sunset, the chill from the great marshes on the coast contrasting forcibly with the heat of the day. At dinner-time, 6 o'clock, the table of my host and hostess was without ceremony, but there was an exceedingly hearty welcome, and very good cheer their little girl, an intelligent and darling child, was one of the party, and though not six years old, for good behaviour might have been twenty. On my arrival, the great size of my spectacles had attracted the observant little lady, who had whispered to her mother, Comme il est charmant ce monsieur avec ses beaux yeux de verre !-what a delightful gentleman with beautiful glass eyes ! -an admiration which was at least more gracious than that of a little girl at Chamouni some years back, who, after a long stare at me, ex@claimed, Ah, que vos grandes lunettes vous donnent tout à fait l'air d'un gros hibou !-how exactly your great spectacles make you look like a big owl ! Later, M. de Lahitolle, who has been for many years in Algeria, joined us, and there was much discourse about Corsica, and especially about this part of it, now in so transitional a state, owing to the treatment of it by the Emperor Napoleon III.'s government. Only a certain portion of the plain of Aleria belongs to the state the family Franceschetti of Vescovato and others possess much of the adjacent land, and that is all allowed to remain in its desert condition, while drainage and other agricultural labour are doing their work of civilisation at Casabianda. And it appears that by a great many Corsicans these improvements are not looked upon with very loving eyes, though there are, of course, many enlightened men among them who approve of, and per@haps have suggested the measures of utility put in practice by the emperor's government. As for the convicts, they naturally prefer labour in the open air, with comparative freedom, to a life within prison walls in France. In June nearly the whole establishment migrates to a Sanatorium, or mountain settle@ment, near Ghisoni, in the pine forest of Marmano, which I hope to visit on my return to Ajaccio early next month. The evening passes in making drawings for little Terese, not unenlivened by snatches of merriment for although I labour under the disadvantage of speaking French very ill, I nevertheless always find French acquaintance  to help all deficiencies, and with the pleasant liveliness of their nature, to seize on any opportunity of amusement. My riddle of Quand est ce, c. see page 143 , delights my cheerful hosts and, apropos to the appearance of potatoes at dinner, when the question is asked, On en mange beaucoup en Angleterre, n'est ce pas, monsieur ? they are charmed by my telling them the Irishman's saying, Only two things in this world are too serious to be jested on-to wit, potatoes and matrimony. The beauty of the Hon. Mrs. A. B. their party was here not long since , was again, as at Porto, a theme of admiration. At 9, M. and Madame Beurville, knowing my early hour of rising, allowed me to wish them good-night. In the sitting-room and bed-room up-stairs I seem to be transported to some English country-house, and neither the memories of ancient Aleria nor of modern Casabianda interfere with immediate sleep. May 22.-Before 4 A.M. coffee had been brought me by one of the convict-servants of the Penitencier, and as it is not easy to move about in this neces@sarily much be-sentinelled and be-locked-up place, MM. Beurville and de Lahitolle were soon at hand to facilitate matters, and I was speedily down on the terrace, drawing the long chain of Corsican Alps, clear as amethyst and tipped with silver as the sun rose. The Romans were right in making a city at Aleria, in a site so majestic in itself, so well placed for communication with the outer world, and situated in the widest and most fertile territory in the whole east coast of the island, looking, on one side, to the lofty range of snowy summits, on the other to the sea, and to the river Tavignano winding through the broad plain, this part of which is so happily awakening from its long sleep of desolation. I am well rewarded for my trouble in coming here a second time, in thus seeing one of the finest parts of Corsica in cloudless weather, and in being able to procure an accurate drawing of its distant landscape. And having completed this, there remains but one more duty here-to visit some parts of the estab@lishment which M. Beurville wishes to show me, and which, to my eye, inexperienced in such matters, appear in all the perfection of working order the spacious kitchen, the storehouse for food, the warehouses for clothing, c. -@nearly everything is made by the convicts on the spot, from the produce of the territory-and all seems arranged and overlooked with the greatest care. A detailed account of the condition and results of this establishment for 1,000 condamnés would be interesting. 7 A.M.-I take leave of my amiable hosts, and of M. Lahitolle, and set off with Flora and Co. along the road to Bastia, hoping to divide the journey thither by halting for the night at Vescovato. Before passing the bridge over the Tavignano I stop to make a drawing of the fort of Aleria, with a distance of green plain and far mountain.  anything were wanting to complete the exact resemblance of this part of Corsica to the well-beloved Campagna of Rome, it is sup@plied just here by portions of the polygonally paved ancient road, which formerly led from Mariana to Aleria. So vividly Romanesque is the scene, and so exactly reproduced are such spots as Gabii, or similar places, that it is hard to believe the days that are no more are not returned, particularly when a flock of goats passes leisurely and sneezingly, after their manner, across the long-enduring memorials of Roman dominion, wandering about the dark gray fragments of pavement as they might upon the old Via Appia-but here the parallel halts. There is no goatherd with pointed hat and peacock's feather and Malvolio-like cross-gartered gaiters no little girl with scarlet boddice, spindle and wool in hand, and with her bright black eyes shaded by the white squared tovaglia, as-if you never saw the reality-you may see in the pictures of Penry Williams. Here, the model for the Cor@sican Goatherd@@ might be safely selected from Holborn or Whitechapel indiscriminately. Onward at 8. There are sixty-seven kilo@mètres to Bastia, on the direct road from Aleria, and one hundred from Bonifacio, so say the kilomètrical milestones. Although this eastern side of Corsica is called and seems a plain, it is by no means flat, any more than is the Roman Campagna, which equally appears so from any height. A good but straight road runs along it, mostly over undulating ground, and rarely level. Sandy or cretaceous banks border the highway and in so clear and charming a morning as this there is enough of interest to prevent the drive being a weary one, which in dull weather it would assuredly prove. In the depressions or shallow dells the variety of flowers and the richness of the maquis are constant sources  pleasure from the top of each rise in the road you may look back at the snowy heights to the south, gradually fading away, or forward to the green hills which approach the coast at Cervione to the right is the sea, with Monte Cristo and Elba on the horizon, and all around stretches the apparent plain over which you are passing. Rarely a human being is met once or twice only I remarked a hut or two, and now and then great herds of black goats filled up the road, migrating with the goatherds and their families to higher regions, above the reach of malaria. Everywhere there are characteristic and picturesque bits of Campagna-like landscape everywhere the cheerful bee-eater abounds, sitting by pairs on the telegraph wires, and sometimes not stirring as the carriage drives by. ALERIA. 9 A.M.-Since leaving Aleria-thirteen kilomètres-scarcely any cultiva@tion has been passed but now, as the hill-range, at the end or corner of which Cervione stands, is approached, the scenery begins to change, and has a less deserted look there are a few roadside houses, with plots of grain more or less extended, and scattered patches of alder trees or of cork wood vary the maquis that clothes the flat ground to the sea-side. The snow-topped hills to the south recede, and are seen no more, while those ahead are of a rich velvety blue green, covered with foliage from foot to summit, one of the lower heights being crowned with a conspicuous lighthouse@-@the Faro d'Alistro. Beyond this, cultivation and signs of life become more frequent and at 10 we stop for a rest, for the day is particularly hot, and Domenico never fails when there is water to avail himself of it for the ponies. Here there is a fresh pool and a stream, shaded by alders and a single willow- one willow over the river hung -@add also, in the interest of zoology, a very large snake, which, as I wander about the thick vegetation, glides over my feet towards the water. When first I came to Corsica I was told, There are no snakes here but having pointed out four to Domenico, he now says, There are only harmless snakes which may be true or not. Off again at 10.30, and in five minutes leave the main Bastia road for a route forestiere on the right, leading up to Cervione, where very willingly would I pass the night, could I by so doing leave time enough to see Bastia and Cap Corse, besides the Balagna, before my return to Ajaccio well I know that from Cervione through the Casinca district exists some of Corsica's best scenery and points of greatest interest and it is a matter of vexation that so much of this beautiful island must be glanced at thus slightly-so much left quite unseen.89  called the Casinca, or Castagniccia, since they are described as among the most beautiful and interesting of the. island by all who have visited them. Valery in 1834, Gregorovius in 1852 some of his most delightful chapters-see page 216-relate to his walks among the Casinca villages , and, more recently, Forester and Dr. Bennet speak with enthusiasm of the scenery, and praise the inhabitants of some of the villages for their industry, though, in general, the population of this part of Corsica seem to have little taste for  pretty steep ascent from the coast road to Cervione, shaded by chesnut and ilex, bordered with fern, and ever and anon with peeps into dells full of vineyard and walnut and cherry trees as you mount higher the views are increasingly beautiful, overlooking all the wide plain of Aleria southward, and with Elba and the bright sea on the east. Extreme richness of foliage is the characteristic of the nearer part of the prospect down to the shore, and I am frequently reminded of the views from Massa Carrara and Pietra Santa, with the plain of Via Reggio below. Sending on Flora and Co., I stop to draw for a time, and then proceed to Cervione, which stands at about seven kilomètres distant from the Bastia road on that leading to the west side of the island, or rather to the central point of Ponte della Leccia. 90 Cervione is a good sized town it was for a short time a Sous-prefecture , and has an imposing appearance from its high position, its lofty church tower, and massive many-windowed houses, like those of Sarténé, all of which added to some great rocks immediately above it, make a picturesque scene in combination with the rich foliage-what cherry, chesnut, and walnut trees !-on every side, and with the grand view of the plain and sea afar. Its street, too, possesses a certain air of activity and life, and on the Piazza fronting the south is the very tolerably clean little house by way of a hotel, containing a billiard-room and café below stairs, and a large and not ill-kept apartment above, arrived at by one of the ladders that do duty for staircases in these parts.  it is almost the universal diet, and in the canton of Alesani as many as twenty-two different kinds of dishes are said to be made from it Valery, p. 308 . The canton of Piedicroce of Orezza is spoken of as that where a great variety of small wares are made, and the Abbé Galletti says it is that in which the population work more than those of any other canton in Corsica, a character also given to it so far back as the days of Filippini. Much detail relating to this part of the island, including notices of some of their oldest churches, S. Michele of Morato among others, is to be found in Galletti, and there are good descriptions of the beauty of the landscape near Bevinco and Olmeta in Forester's book. The mineral waters of Orezza are celebrated see Bennet, p. 264 . The history of Maria Gentili-the modern Antigone see Gregorovius, Benson, c. -of Oletta, and of Viterbi of Penta, are tales of Corsican life illustrative of this part of the island. -E. L. 90 Cervione, an industrious and progressing village, and counting more than 1,400 inhabitants, is one of the two suppressed préfectures.-@Valery, i., p. 282. I dined with the sub-préfet of Bastia tasted a great variety of wines. I had not conceived that Corsica produced any so excellent some were like port, strong, rough, and full bodied some rich and sweet, so much resembling Frontignac, that they are frequently sold as such others like Chablis and another sort similar to the best Herefordshire perry.-Benson, p. 56. All the villages of the canton of Cervione make wine, which is their greatest resource, and much esteemed in Corsica..... The territories of Cervione and Corte produce a wine which is not much inferior to Bordeaux. The wines of the cantons of Sari d'Urcino, Tallano, and Sarténé, and the muscat wine of Cape Corse, may be compared with the best wines of the Continent..... The Corsicans make plenty of admirable wines, for their grapes are excellent. They make in Capo Corso two very good @white wines one of them has a great resemblance to Malaga. The other of these w@hite wines is something like Frontignac. At Furiani they make a white wine very like Syracuse, not quite so luscious, and, upon the whole, preferable to it. In some villages they make a rich sweet w@ine, much resembling Tokay. At Vescovato and at Campoloro they make wine very like Burgundy and over the whole island there are wines of different sorts.@-@Galletti, pp. 40, 182, 186, 187.  For all this, unless it could be made head-quarters for several days' study, Cervione does not in itself present enough of interest to induce me to shorten the time allotted to places so important as Bastia and the Balagna, which I must needs visit, so I decide on going for the night, if it is possible to do so easily, to Vescovato, a place I much wish to see, owing to its many associa@tions, as well as for its reputed beauty. Quoth Domenico, who having unexpectedly fallen in with some Ajaccio acquaintance, is moved to demur to farther progress to-day- Vescovato is much too far. Nevertheless, on hearing some gendarmes certify the way as seven kilomètres to the high Bastia road, twenty along it, and five up to Vescovato, he acquiesces readily, and the trap is ordered to be ready at 3 P.M. The gendarmes say there is no regular hotel at Vescovato, but they name one M. Gravie, an old Continental, and formerly in the gendarmerie, as having a decent lodging-house. Meanwhile, the people of the little inn here, full of obliging civility-now the well-known type of Corsican manner-produce as good a breakfast as they can on so short a notice, for, as they truly say, it is impossible to kill meat and get fish in a spirit of prophecy for persons whom they have no reason to expect. The Cervione district has a high reputation for its wine, but there was none particularly good at this locanda. As to female costume there is this change for the worse, that the women here only wear-instead of the two handkerchiefs so gracefully worn all over the west side of the island-a single one, and that simply tied round the head and knotted behind. Once more I have to record that the small country inns of Corsica, are cleaner and better than those of the towns, generally speaking. Meanwhile, I cannot bring myself to make any drawing of Cervione, though I know I ought to do so from the farthest side of the deep hollow over against the town, where, combined with the chesnut-woods, the sea, and Elba, a picture might be made-but then, the houses are so commonplace !-and it is so far to go down there and up again !-and so hot !-and so late !-and thus I do nothing at all but wander a little way on the road leading to Orezza, a land of chesnut-woods, not alas ! by me to be explored.91 Starting at 3.10 P.M., the Bastia road, very straight and unpleasant to look at, is reached at 3.40 and we drive on until at about the twenty-sixth  weary of travelling, and passes many an object worthy of consideration with his eyes shut. I saw Cervione Theodore's royal residence on the hill above me, and gave it up for the sake of the ruins of Mariana.-p. 484. There is a chapter p. 216 in Gregoiovius very characteristic of Corsican village life in these districts, and full of interesting traits the hospitality of a poor and simple family, combined with the ambition which is so frequent in the island, where the example of many allures people away from their villages in which one may often find in the dingiest cabin, the family portrait of senators, generals, and prefects. There is a description, too, of the view from Oreto, which has caused me to regret much, as in other instances, my not having met with Gregorovius's book before I left the island. -E. L. btime to enquire for a road said to turn off on the left hand to Vescovato but as there are many such lanes, the directions are not very satisfactory and Domenico is in a land new to him. From the junction of the Cervione road, the landscape has been full of cheerfulness@-@everywhere with much cultivation, and very little of the wild Corsican vegetation, except arbutus hedges, white and red cystus. On the left is a line of mountains, of no great height, but of good form, with a nearer and lower range of hills entirely covered with wood-here and there a house or two is passed, with corn-fields and great walnut trees. At 5.30, a town not far from the road stands on a gentle elevation crowded with foliage, and with a beautiful picturesque campanile this place I suppose at first to be Vescovato, but it is I believe Venzolasca 92 some people-there are in this district plenty on the road-say there is a way from it to Vescovato, but difficult for carriages. 6 P.M.-At the twenty-third kilomètre from Bastia the real lane is reached, so I send on Domenico to secure what rooms M. Gravie may have, and prefer, after the long and hot drive, walking up slowly to the town of Filippini and Buttafuoco, the refuge that should have been of J. J. Rousseau, and that was so to Joachim Murat King of Naples. Few prettier walks could be taken anywhere-at first through open country, always approaching the hills, which are throughout completely wooded and exceedingly beautiful, the sinking sun now edging their graceful outlines with long streams of gold, green, and yellow, like the plumage of a peacock or a trogon. Then, as the narrow valley of Vescovato is entered, the way is more and more closed in by thick olive-trees growing above rocky banks, and hedges where a profusion of blossoming honeysuckles scent the evening air deliciously no town, however, is to be seen and this leafy approach, reminding me of the lanes near Virò in Corfu, is quite unlike any I have yet seen in Corsica. And not less novel are the accompaniments of the ascent quite a crowd is moving up to Vescovato from the plains and cultivated territory nearer the sea, with a stir and show of population altogether dif@ferent from the lonely and thinly peopled western side of the island. Long strings of carts laden with hay horses and asses, with groups of peasants carrying baskets, instruments of labour, c.-one seems to have come to  has a beautiful court with eighteen columns.-Valery, i., p. 305. From the plateau on which the church of Venzolasca stands there is a ravishing distant view over the sea, and on the other side a view of the indescribably beautiful mountain basin of the Castagniccia. Few regions of Corsica and its neighbourhood gave me so much delight as these mountains in their connection with the sea. The Castagniccia is an imposing circle, enclosed by mountains of a beau@tiful fresh green, and the finest forms they are all covered with chesnut trees to near the summit, and have at their feet olive groves, whose silvery gray contrasts picturesquely with the deep green of the chesnut foliage. From the midst of the foliage solitary hamlets look forth, such as Sorba, Penta, Castellare, and Oreto, perched high among the clouds, dark, and with slender black church spires.-Gregorovius, p. 214.  new world-and scarcely one of all these people-I counted some hun@dreds-passed without touching their hats and saying, as did also the women, Bonsoir. All at once the town of Vescovato 93 is visible, than which I never saw any more curiously befoliaged and hidden place nor is it till within half an hour of reaching it that it is to be seen at all, so high and so thick are the olive-trees, and above them the chesnut, over the winding road that leads up to it. First you see two or three temple-like tombs, placed in striking and beautiful spots, Corsica fashion, and then suddenly the whole town is perceived, high up among the woods in which it is embedded, and looking down on a clear stream brawling onward over rocks to a little bridge, and dark haunts of shady leafiness. See Plate 30. Nor is Vescovato a featureless array of ugly and commonplace buildings of the domino-warehouse type, but a most picturesque place both in form and colour, so much resembling such towns as Corchiano, or similar places in Central Italy, that one seems to have been transported thither, there is even a sort of palace, as a roof or crown of things @-though of course not such as at Genazzano or Valmontone-@at the highest part of the town. A 93 I at length set out for Bastia, and went the first night to Rostino. Next day I reached Vescovato, where I was received by Signor  Vescovato, a town of 1,000 inhabitants, is the capital of the Casinca or Castagniccia, so called from its chesnut woods. These lovely and verdant forests might give open a field of industry to the Corsican, for the chesnut is one of the best woods, and even Filippini records, that in his time they made and exported the most beautiful tables in the world. In our time, however, this tree is rather a cause of poverty than profit. Six chesnut trees and as many goats suffice for the subsistence and independence of the Corsican, who does not feel the want of any other kind of life, and who saunters about all day instead of working or cultivating the land. It was at Vescovato that an asylum was offered, in 1764, by Count Matthew Buttafuoco to Jean Jacques Rousseau, who had expressed a strong wish to retire thither, in order to escape from his Swiss persecutors..... The house of Filippini, now occupied by peasants, has been preserved out of respect for his memory it is now only three storeys instead of four in height, but solidly built, and a curious model of a Corsican dwelling of the sixteenth century, for although the historian was well off, and could receive several friends in his house, it would now appear but an inconvenient abode.@.@.@. The abode of the historian Ceccaldi, large and restored, still exists, and in our days this house of a historian has itself become a part of history, for it served as an asylum to Murat when he came, in 1815, to Corsica, to demand hospitality of General Franceschetti, formerly a colonel in his army. The General occupied the house still in 1834, and I paid a visit there to his wife, who was Catarina Ceccaldi. Murat, that cavalier always so well mounted and equipped, that paladin of the white plumes, which he never ceased to wear in front of the enemy, made his entrance into Vescovato on a mule, a black silk cap only on his head, a common cloak and soldier's gaiters his thick shoes are still preserved in this house. General Franceschetti died in 1836, ruined in consequence of Murat's residence with him, and by his having accompanied the ex-king in his expedition to Pizzo.-@Valery, i., p. 311. I expected to find such a place as I had seen plenty of on these mountains. So I was astonished when I saw Vescovato before me, surrounded by green hills, concealed among the chesnut-groves, oranges, vines, and fruit-trees of every kind, watered by a mountain stream, and built in original Corsican style, yet not without some elegant architecture..... The place was founded by a bishop, and was in later times the residence of the bishops of the old town of Mariana, which lay in the plain below..... The archdeacon Filippini had the custom of writing his history in his vine@yard at Vescovato, which they still show. When he had ridden up from Mariana, he tied his horse to a pine-tree, and sat down to @meditate or to write, protected by the high wall of his garden-for he was  multitude of unequal windows, and all sorts of angular oddities of architecture, are crowded together, to the delight of the artistic eye, the brown, gray, and yellow tints making each of the houses a picture and on the whole, no place in all these Corsican journeys has so delighted me at first sight as Vescovato, which its historical associations alone would make worth a  smart ascent leads up to the town, and all along the way there are beautiful combinations of foliage and building. At the top, in a little piazza, surrounded by children, stand the trap and ponies, the luggage unpacked, and Flora looking as if all was not right, while Domenico comes forward to say that there is no possible lodging to be found. The Maire, to whom I have a letter, is ill, and I send Giorgio to find the house of M. Gravie, when two gendarmes, who are always a civil set, come and offer their assistance at the same time G. returns, having discovered the house which Domenico could not find, from being unable to leave the ponies. During G.'s search I was surrounded by seventy or eighty boys, who stared at me diligently, and in silence and I was struck by the quiet manner in which all these children dispersed on my saying to them, Have you never before seen a stranger ? and do you think it is right to look at him as if he were a wild beast and not  all his life through-and so he wrote the history of the Corsicans, under truly dramatic and exciting influences.-Gregorovius, p. 192. The territory of the canton of Vescovato is the most fertile in all the island that part of it-the plain watered by the Golo-is well cultivated, and the part near the sea, called Prato, is prodigiously fertile. Vescovato is the birthplace of the patriot General Andrea Ceccaldi, the three historians, Monteg@giani, Ceccaldi, and Filippini, of General Count de Buttafuoco, Luca de Casabianca, captain of the vessel l'Orient, who perished at Aboukir, together with his son Giocante, twelve years of age, and of many other distinguished members of the Casabianca family, c. The long residence of the bishops of Mariana has changed the name of Belfiorita into Vescovato.@-@Galletti, pp. 184, 185. I went, says G. to the house of Count Matteo Buttafuoco, which was to have been the abode of J. J. Rousseau. It is a sightly, chateau-like building, the grandest in Vescovato. Paoli also invited Rousseau to the island in the year 1764, so that he might withdraw from the persecution of his enemies in Switzerland. I am growing old and failing, says J. J. R., in a letter declining this invitation, my strength is leaving me the wish excites me, and the hope vanishes. However it be, accept yourself a present to the Paoli, my sincerest and tenderest thanks for the refuge he has deigned to offer me. Circumstances, however, diverted Rousseau from his intention of going to Corsica, and a pity it was. He might there have put his theories to the test, for the island appears like the realised Utopia of his ideas on the normal condition of society eulogised by him, especially in the treatise Whether the arts and sciences have been salutary to mankind. In Corsica he would have found to the full what he wished, natural men in woollen blouses, living on goats' milk and a few chesnuts neither science nor art equality, valour, hospitality, and blood-revenge at every step. I think the warlike Corsicans would have heartily laughed to see Rousseau walking about under the chesnut trees with his cat on his arm, or twining his basket-work, c. There is a third very memorable house at Vescovato, that of the family of Ceccaldi...... It is now the house of General Franceschetti. or rather of his wife, Catarina Ceccaldi and it was here that the ill-fated king, Joachim Murat, found a hospitable reception when he landed in Corsica on his flight from Provence and here he formed the plan of reconquering his beautiful kingdom of Naples by a knightly coup de main.-Gregorovius, pp. 199, 200. Gregorovius gives many details of the last days of Murat's life, taken from the Memoirs written by @Franceschetti-how Murat, after he had escaped, fled to Corsica, and landed near Bastia, August 25, 1815, and hearing that General Franceschetti, who had served in his body-guard, was at Vescovato,  a man like your own people ? Dite vero, e vero-true, true, said many of the little fellows, as they walked away, without a single instance of rude words or a grimace from any one of them and this behaviour from a large number of common children in a remote mountain village impressed me-who remember various odious and howling juvenile crowds in other countries-as not a little remarkable. Crooked narrow flights of super-odorous and slippery stairs-dark, too, for daylight is waning-cut in the rock, lead up to the queer little house of M. Gravie. As usual, the interior of the tiny rooms is far better than was to have been expected from the very rude approach, and the old landlord and two daughters are full of civilities and apologies. But as I have been very far from well all day, G. makes up my camp-bed at once, and I get rest till supper is announced, at which I only assist, for fear my not doing so may be construed as a slight to what these good people, in their anxiety to give satisfaction, have prepared-to wit, pease-soup, an omelette, stewed lamb, and a roast fowl, killed on my arrival, all good and well dressed. The supper is served by the two daughters, both of them agreeable in face and manner, and I beg the master of the house, a well-bred old French gendarme, to sit down in the room-which he will not do without a positive invitation more  Ceccaldi how he presented himself to the general, wrapped in a hooded cloak, with his head buried under a black silk cap, with the thick beard, and the trousers, gaiters, and shoes, of a common soldier, his face emaciated with misery. In spite of all per@suasion, it seems that he persisted madly in his scheme of returning to Naples, lingering on in Corsica until his situation became daily more full of peril. On September 17 he went to Ajaccio, to embark there, his journey being a sort of triumphant march, from many of his admirers joining him, and Ajaccio, on the 23rd, declared in his favour. While in the city, offers were made him of complete security, guaranteed by Austrian and English passports, and at one time he accepted them, but finally, decided to proceed on his enterprise. The recital of his last days, and of his death, is full of affecting detail, as well as that of his faithful follower Franceschetti, of his sufferings, and of the ruin his fidelity entailed on himself and family. Franceschetti died in the year 1836. His wife, Catarina Ceccaldi still lives 1852 at a great age in the house where she gave a hospitable reception to King Joachim..... She spoke of the time when Murat lived here. Franceschetti, said she, represented the affair to him in the plainest colours he did not shrink from telling him he was bent upon impossibilities but then Murat would exclaim with bitterness, 'You too will abandon me? Ah ! my Corsicans will leave me.' -Gregoro@v@ius, p. 212, c. The last representation of the warlike Corsican dance in armour, now disused, called the Moresca, was in 1817, but Filippini mentions Vescovato as the theatre of it, and it was frequently performed there. The old plays of Passion Week were kept up also in Corsica till a very late period, and in 1808 an entertainment of the kind was given at Orezza, according to Robiquet, in the presence of 10,000 people. There were tents to represent the houses of Pilate, Herod, and Caiphas angels and devils rose up from a trap-door Pilate's wife was acted by a young man, twenty-three years old, with a raven black beard. The Captain of the Guard wore the French national-guard uniform, with a colonel's gold and silver epaulettes the second commander wore an infantry uniform and both had the cross of the legion of honour on the breast. Judas was represented by a priest, the cure of Carcheto. When the play began, the spectators, from some unknown cause, got into a fray, and began to bombard one another with pieces of rock that they tore up from the natural amphitheatre. Hereupon Jesus, who had just entered the stage, would not play any more, and retired in a tiff from this earthly vale of woe but two gendarmes took him under the arms, and forcibly brought him back to the stage, so that he had to play on.-Gregorovius, p. 204.  that I may have some talk with him, as I shall be off so early to-morrow. M. Gravie tells me he has been in Corsica forty years, and in this place twenty, having married a Corsican wife I am the only Englishman he has ever seen at Vescovato, with the exception that once the English Vice-consul at Bastia slept here. The life of a gendarme in this island forty years ago was, he says, indeed, one of danger, when banditism and vendetta were flourishing institutions, and if one could but have staid here some days, unlimited stores of romance might have been taken down from this old ex-official's recital. Seeing how much pains these good folk took to please me, I was vexed that I could not eat, and therefore sat the longer to talk with this pleasant old man, in whose conversation there was something sad as well as interesting, particularly when he spoke of France. I should much like to linger here some days, but it cannot be done I must see Corsica hastily or not at all. Meanwhile I only just hope to escape fever while I am in the island, not at all on account of the prevalence of malaria, but because fatigue always awakes the old slumberings of an illness to which I have for years been liable. It is past 9.30 before I get to the camp-bed.  of family or bond of relationship so general in Corsica, M. Valery instances the three Sampieri, the three Paoli, two Abbatucci, two Cervoni, three Casabianca, two Sebastiani-as proofs of his statement.-@Valery, i., p.  Gravie's Sadness-Return to the Bastia Road -Valley and Bridge of the Golo@-@Étang de Biguglia-City of Mariana-Great Cultivation, and Increase of Population-Diligences-Cemetery-Arrive at Bastia-Lively Appearance of Bastia-Hôtel de France-Description of the Town and Port-Gourds and Chains-Plans for the rest of Corsican Tours-A Day in the Vicinity of Bastia-Difficulty of Drawing in a High Road-Leave Bastia for Cap Corse-Sea-shore Road -Distant View of Elba-Capo Sagro@-@Sisco-Valley of Luri-Village of Piazza di Luri-Madame Cervoni's tidy and pleasant House-Luri is to be the farthest point I visit in the North of Corsica -White Wine of Luri-Silkworms-Industry of Cap Corse@-Visit to Seneca's Tower@-Ascent-Great Beauty of the Valley-Road to Pino-Tablet in the Rock-Capuchin Convent-View from it-M. Tomei-Leave Piazza di Luri and return to Bastia. May 23.-Quinine and a good night's rest in a quiet house are great things by mistake I have risen at 3.30, an hour earlier than was necessary, when- Morn broadened on the borders of the dark. Would that I could have got some notes and ideas of that chesnut scenery along the last few kilomètres along the Bastia road ! especially of the town I believe to have been Venzolasca, about which the beautiful effects of light and shade were delightful but owing to hurry, and that the sun was low and directly opposite the eye, drawing was not possible. Vescovato, closely shut in between densely-wooded heights, with few distant glimpses of the shining eastern sea, might, it seems to me, have suited Jean Jacques, had he accepted the Buttafuoco invitation, from its peaceful and remote position. Murat in the Franceschetti house, and Filippini in his own, must have found the place fitted to their wants but it may be doubted if Count Buttafuoco, after the celebrated letter of Napoleon Buonaparte, did so. All these, and other names remarkable in history, stamp Vescovato as a town of peculiar interest. After coffee, I took leave of my landlord, M. Gravie, who said, Je ne crois pas, monsieur, que nous nous reverrons. On my asking him last night if he had ever revisited France, the poor old fellow said, Non, monsieur, j@e n'ai jamais vu la France depuis que je l'ai quittée, et maintenant je ne la reverrai plus. I do not think my worthy host was convinced that I was not a political agent of some sort, partly because it has always been a charac@teristic of Vescovato to mix itself up in or initiate surprising political events and partly that, after all, it is very difficult for these people to reconcile the popular notion of a painter laboriously working his way from place to  that of an elderly traveller speaking four languages, and going about with a carriage, luggage, and a servant. It is of no use to attempt explana@tions-qui s'excuse s'accuse-and, therefore, silence is golden is the best rule of the traveller's life in these lands. So at 5 A.M. I came down, leaving Domenico and Co. to follow by the shady lanes where Jean Jacques Rousseau should have loitered and, till 6.30, I draw below the town, by the side of the road, which is, as last night, all alive with peasants, now going to their work in the fields, many of them in cars or on horseback, and all giving me a civil Bonjour. Of costume there is literally none hereabouts, any more than in other parts of Corsica, unless the universal wearing of one or sometimes two gourds, many of them very large and flat, be considered as such. As the territory of Vescovato is all about the low lands near the sea-shore, where it is not easy to find good water, the villagers here take a large supply with them for their day's need. In making a painting of Vescovato, as I hope one day to do, the luxuriantly leafy aspect of the place should be well attended to, and the rich broken colours of the houses, so unlike most in Corsica especially when the stream below the town is fuller of water than it now is, few more beautiful subjects could be chosen. By 7 A.M. I am once more driving along the Bastia road, Flora having politely come up the Vescovato lane to meet me, lest I should miss seeing the carriage. At this hour the richly-wooded and almost unbroken line of hills on the left of the highway are shadeless and glaring in the full eastern sunshine the time of their great beauty was that of even@ing, when they were varied and lighted up by the long shadows and gold gleams of western sunset. The valley of the river Golo and its bridge is soon passed, and already Bastia, the northern capital of Corsica, is seen, beyond what seems an inter@minable straight wide road. On the right hand, stretching to the sea, lie the great marsh and plain of ancient Mariana,94 and the wide Étang de Biguglia,  is a curious and picturesque ruin on the sea-shore, overgrown with herbs and shrubs, its columns all standing, its roof open, and with figures of animals sculptured on its façade.-@Valery, i., p. 314. The ruins of Mariana lie an hour's walk off from the road, towards the sea-coast. Here, as at Aleria, I found extensive tracts strewn with stones of walls covering the whole ground. The ruins of Mariana are yet more insignificant than those of Aleria.@.@. Two ruined churches alone attract attention they are the most prominent ruins of the middle age period. The first and smaller one was a beautiful chapel, the long nave of which has been well preserved. It has a pulpit decorated outside by six pilasters of the Corinthian order. A mile further stand the beautiful ruins of a larger church, of which, likewise, the nave remains erect. It is called the Canonica. The building is a basilica of three naves, with rows of pilasters of the Doric order, and a pulpit constructed like a Gothic chapel on both sides.@.@.@. It is in every respect like a basilica of the Pisans.-Gregorovius, p. 485. There are ruins of Roman construction still existing at Mariana, pilasters of a bridge which crossed the Golo, those of a small octagon temple near the church La Canonica, portions of great parallel walls, c.,  ofly malarious as summer draws on. I could well have liked to get a drawing of the site of the old city, but at 8 A.M. it begins to be too hot to indulge in wanderings over a marshy district of most suspiciously unhealthy aspect. Not much of the old city, I believe, remains above ground, but there might be picturesque masses of Roman brickwork, and vegetation and the far hills, did circumstances allow, would combine to make a good illustration of the ruins. Borgo, Furiani, Lucciani, all villages on the left as you approach Bastia, would well have been worth a visit had it been possible to compass it. 1 Meanwhile, signs of life and cultivation continue to increase as I go on tRoman bricks, c. vestiges of a canal, c. Roman tiles, sarcophagi, c., c.-Galletti, p. 189. The ruins of Mariana are less apparent than those of Aleria, being in a plain more or less culti@vated, and the Abbé Galletti says that many portions of the old city have disappeared even in his own remembrance. The Abbé makes some strictures on Marmocchi's book, it seems to me with justice. No trace, says Marmocchi, exists of the town of Mariana, nor can the geographer discover the exact spot occupied. -E. L. Biguglia, now a little village with less than 300 inhabitants, succeeded to the noble Mariana, and was the capital of the island under the protecting government of the Pisans from 1090 to 1300. Biguglia preserved its rank of capital till the year 1380, when the Genoese governor, Leonello Lomellino, driven from it by Henri de la Rocca, built further away on the sea-shore a fort, which afterwards became Bastia. The lagoon of Biguglia, three leagues long, in some places half a league broad, and which has a super@ficies of 3,000 hectares, is, from its insalubrity, the scourge of the neighbourhood, and its exhalations affect the public health even as far as Bastia.@-@Valery. The exhalations that rise from the waters of this lagoon have always been the scourge of Biguglia, which is now only a small hamlet. The inhabitants of Furiani, Borgo, and Lucciana, and even of the city of Bastia, often suffer from the effects of its homicidal insalubrity.-Galletti, p. 17. 1 Furiani, where the Corsicans in a national assembly first organised their insurrection against the Genoese, and elected the prudent and intrepid Giafferi one of their leaders, with cries of Evviva la libertà ! evviva il popolo ! Euriani, where in almost their last struggle 200 Corsicans held the fortifica@tions long after they were a heap of ruins, and at length cut their way by night to the shore@-Forester, pp. 49, 95. In the battle of Borgo, 1768, the Corsicans, under Pasquale and Clement Paoli and other chiefs, thrice repulsed the French army of 15,000 men, under Chauvelin, and forced them to retreat in disorder to Bastia. The garrison of Borgo, a force of 700 men, laid down their arms, c. On the slopes of the hills that extend from Bastia to the river Fiumalto, remains of antiquity are frequently discovered. In all probability Etruscans and Romans possessed country houses or villas there. An immense number of tombs containing lachrymatory vases are found there. The sulphurous waters of Merenzana, on which the Romans had constructed baths, are at a place now called Marmorana, and the ground is full of vestiges of Roman antiquity.@-@Galletti, p. 193. In the year 1832-sometimes the occasions of bloody feuds between two villages are very ridiculous, a dead donkey was the cause of one. In Easter week a procession going to a certain chapel stumbled upon a dead ass in the road. The sexton was angry, and began to curse those who had thrown the ass on the road, and thus shown dishonour to the holy procession. A strife immediately arose, between the people of Lucciana and those of Borgo, which parish the ass belonged to, and arms were seized forthwith, and shots exchanged the holy procession had suddenly converted itself into a battle. The one village cast the burthen upon the other each carried the ass to the other one while they of Borgo dragged him to Lucciana, another while they of Lucciana did the same to Borgo, and this in the midst of constant shooting and wild battle cries on both sides. The men of Borgo once dragged the dead ass quite to the church of Lucciana, and threw him down at the church-door but those of Lucciana took him up again, and then having taken Borgo by storm, impaled him on the belfry-tower. At length the podestà caused the corpus delicti-which was beaten into a pulp by its wandering, and was in a state of dissolution-to be seized and buried in peace. The poet Viale has composed a comic epic on this story.-Gregorovius, p.  lupines, and great plantations of almond trees stretch on both sides of the road there are hay-fields, too, with vulgar domestic hay-cocks, dear to the memories of tumbling childhood even the wayside accompani@ments are different from those of West Corsica, inasmuch as here there are lines of great aloes, while, instead of fern, asphodel, arbutus and its blackbirds, the road is edged with thistles, tipped with the familiar goldfinch. Peasants, on foot or in cars, are numerous and two Diligences-to Cervione and Bonifacio-a sprinkling of wayside houses, and a very dusty road, all unite to exhibit a different and livelier condition of things in the neighbourhood of Bastia than is found elsewhere in Corsica. Nor is the drive without interest of association, apart from that of the destroyed Mariana, since, on the hills to the left hereabouts, took place some of the greatest events in the island history-to wit, at Borgo, Biguglia, and Furiani, villages all perched at some height above the plain, and apparently worth a painter's visit. For the last hour the road has been quite near the sea, and now, at 8.30, walled gardens, a large cemetery, and villas on the hill sides, announce the approach to Bastia, which is reached by 9 A.M., through a populous and not over-clean suburb, just previously to entering which there is a picturesque view of the city, to which I shall have to return.95  stately appearance from the sea, being built on the declivity of a hill though upon entering the town one is a good deal disappointed, for the houses are in general ill-built and the streets narrow, and from the situation of the town necessarily very steep.-Boswell, p. 22. Bastia, built in an amphitheatrical form, in the middle of gardens of olive, citron, and orange trees, may be said rather to be long than large. The port only contains fifty vessels, but might, if enlarged, rival that of Leghorn, which improvement might be made at the expense of 1,150,000 francs but the engineers doubt the possibility of such additions. The buildings of Bastia are generally little worthy of note the finest is the military hospital, anciently the convent of St. Francis. The citadel is commanded by hills covered with small forts. The donjon of Bastia il maschio is of the fifteenth century, and was commenced by one of the most brilliant heroes of Corsica, Count Vincentello d'Istria. The celebrated bastion of St. Charles, seen from the port, and constructed some time later, has given its name to the city. The Genoese raised the fine pile of building used as the residence of their governors Genoese dungeons, less celebrated than those of the rival Republic of Venice, are hardly less hideous. The old and handsome palace of the French governors is now the Sous-prefecture, the Royal Court, and the Court of Assize while the ground floor serves as barracks for the Corsican Voltigeurs. The churches, richly gilded, and orna@mented with marble, vividly recall those of Italy the reflex of Italian manners, too, is very perceptible at Bastia, a refinement wanting its new rival Ajaccio, that savage head-quarters of a department, spite of the administrative buildings with which it has been decorated at no small expense. In the church of St. John the Baptist is a small old picture of the miraculous draught, which seems a good work. The cathedral, though old and fine, is not the most magnificent church of the city. At the church of La Conception was held the first parliament of 1795, and the bust of Paoli was inaugurated with a perfidious respect, just as he was about to be entirely put aside a grave error on the part of England, for only Paoli, as viceroy, could have prevented the return of the French Republicans.@.@.@. The pavement of Bastia, formed of slabs of Brando stone, is superior to that of Milan, Florence, or Naples, and worthier of flooring palaces and temples than of being laid down in streets. The markings and cloud@ings of this stone come out after being wet by rain with a singular brilliancy.-@Valery, i., pp. 2, 4, 14. I cannot imagine any one staying longer than they can help in Bastia its only attractions are the sea  a city containing about 20,000 inhabitants, is a complete contrast to its quiet, not to say slow, co-capital Ajaccio, where, comparatively speaking, few and far between are the walkers about. Here all is bustle and life, and aad  most populous town in Corsica 16,000 , and has the largest commerce. Bastia was the standing point from which the old division of Corsica into the di quà and the di la dei monti the country on this side and the country on the other side of the mountains was made. The division was by no means equal the country di quà, including the present arrondissements of Bastia, Corte, and Calori being one-third larger than the di là, com@prising those of Ajaccio and Sarténé.-Forester, p. 39. The sea passage from Leghorn is beautiful, and more entertaining than that from Leghorn to Genoa. You certainly enjoy the sight of the picturesque islands in the Tuscan channel.@-@Gregorovius, p. 99. Bastia lies in an amphitheatre round the little harbour the sea forms here no gulf, but only a landing-place or cala..... The town rises in terraces above the harbour, with high tower-shaped, closely crowded houses..... Above the town are the green mountains, with some abandoned convents and beautiful olive-groves. Bastia has its name from the bastion built there by the Genoese. The town is not ancient at least neither Pliny, nor Strabo, nor Ptolemy, mention any town upon its site. Formerly there was there the little marina of the neighbouring village, Cardo. Then, in the year 1383, the Genoese governor, Lionello Lomellino built the donjon keep, or castle, round which a division of the town, the Terra Nuova, soon clustered. The Genoese afterwards removed the seat of their Corsican Government from Biguglia to Bastia, and there resided the Fregosos, the Spinolas, the Dorias eleven Dorias governed Corsica during more than 400 years , the Fiescos, the Cibbas, the Giustiniani, Negri, Vivaldi, Fornari, and so many other nobles of renowned Genoese families. When under French rule, Corsica was divided, in the year 1797, into two departments named after the rivers Golo and Liamone, Bastia remained the capital of the department of Golo. In the year 1811 the two divisions were again united, and the smaller town of Ajaccio became the capital of the island. Bastia cannot yet get over her vexation at having sunk into a sub-prefecture, but in industry, commerce, and intelligence she is, without doubt, the leading town of Corsica. The mutual jealousy of the Bastinese and the citizens of Ajaccio is almost absurd, and would appear ridiculous did not one know that the division of Corsica into the land on the nearer and on the farther side of the mountains is historical, and very ancient, and the character of the inhabitants of the two halves fundamentally different.@-@Gregoro@vius, p. 105. The houses, though palace-like, have no art nor noble materials the stranger meets here not a single specimen of beautiful architecture. Marboeuf, who ruled Corsica for sixteen years, is buried in the handsome church of St. John the Baptist. The views towards the coast and south of Bastia surprised me for there the mountains, which, like almost all the mountains in Corsica, are of the finest pyramidal forms, recede farther from the coast and sink into a smiling plain. The great lagoon of Biguglia lies picturesquely there, girded by sedge, still and dead, scarce furrowed by a narrow fishing boat.-Gregorovius, pp. 106-110. Corsica is extremely well supplied with fish. I never, indeed, could hear of any other fish in their rivers or fresh water lakes, except trout and eel. These, however, are found in great plenty, very fat, and of an uncommon size. But the rich treasure of fish for Corsica is in its sea for on all its coasts there is the greatest variety of all the best kinds, and in particular a sort of ton or sturgeon, and the small fish called sardine, which is of an exquisite taste. And in several places the Corsicans have beds of oysters remarkably large.-Boswell, p. 37. No lights but the stars of heaven burned in the steep and narrow streets of Bastia, says Gregorovius. There is gas how.-E. L. The town of Bastia, built at the northern extremity of the eastern site, is at present the richest, most commercial, and industrious of Corsica. It owes its prosperity to its geographical position, to its place opposite Italy, to its continual communication with Leghorn, and to its proximity to the richest and best cultivated basins of the island.-Grandchamps, p. 42. The port of Bastia is the most frequented of Corsica, but wants extent, and is difficult to enter, and eventually a new port must be made.-Grandchamps, p. 95. Bastia owes its name to the principal bastion of the castle founded in 1383 by Leonello Lomellino. The Genoese made it their principal stronghold in the north of the island, and the residence of the governor of the province. It was the first town attacked by the French in 1553. From 1669 the  street, paved in a first-rate manner with flags after the Tuscan fashion, and with many new and large buildings, gives one an impression of having suddenly arrived at Leghorn or Naples. At the Hotel de France I get a spacious quiet room, and among the good things of a well-served breakfast in the trattoria on the ground floor, let not the fresh anchovies-for which this coast is famous-be forgotten, nor the cherries and strawberries of the Cap Corse gardens. The afternoon passed in exploring the town, as well as in making a draw@ing of it from near the new pier or breakwater, now in course of construction but there is not much to be got out of Bastia in a picturesque sense. A draw@ing might, indeed, be made of the old port, by way of displaying shipping, c. but to portray all its tall narrow houses, backed by high green hills, would take a longer time than I can afford it. Somewhat of Genoa memo@ries revives as you walk along the lanes in the lower part of the city the wide streets and new quarter-where there are blocks of stone-built, handsome, and solid houses-are all in the upper part of it , shop windows exhibiting gourds prettily set with stoppers and chains of silver, small silver and coral models of Corsican daggers, miniature remembrances of bygone days of Vendetta but there is little novelty or beauty of any sort to detain a traveller long in a place, the most striking characteristic of which is its industrious and bustling character. May 24.@-@After ascertaining times and distances as accurately as I can, the best way of disposing of the ten or eleven days of my re@maining stay in Corsica seems as follows -to employ two at Cap Corse, starting thither early to-morrow three for the lower Balagna, and two for the upper part of it and from Corte which I must pass through once more the remaining time may perhaps admit of my returning to Ajaccio by Ghisoni, Marmáno, and Zicavo, if the above plan can be carried out without hindrance from weather or otherwise. Meanwhile, what little there is for me to do at Bastia on its south side can be easily despatched to-day, leaving leisure withal for letter writing in some country nook, for this city doth not possess the charm of quiet, nor is a return through it's streets desirable at broiling mid-day. So I make an early start before 5 A.M., G. carrying an over-night-bespoken breakfast as well as folios, c.,  of Bastia. In 1794 Bastia fell into the power of the Anglo-Paolists, and remained two years in the hands of the English. Retaken in 1796 it was the chief place of the department of the Golo till 1811, and now is the chef lieu of an arrondissement.-Grandchamps, p. 44. On the rock promontory between the two coves, the northern called Porto Cardo, the southern Porto Vecchio, the Genoese built a fortress which, towards the year 1407, Nicoroso de Manicipio, then Governor for the republic of Genoa, was obliged to sell for 700 Genoese livres to Vincentello d'Istria, successor of Arrigo. This fortress fell later into the power of the Genoese government.@-@Galletti, p. 91.1 getting coffee in a café by the way, walk on some four miles the view of the city looking eastward cannot be executed till later, the sun rising fully opposite me and instead of attempting it I make a drawing from a high point near the road, close to the spot I fix on for the day's halt. In the latter part of summer, the great extent of marshy flat be@tween this and the sea-a tract then totally deserted-must be as dreary to look at as dangerous to remain near but just now the high road and the seaward paths among the fields are lively with peasants working at the hay-harvest the bright sun, though extremely hot, is tempered by a pleasant breeze, and the pale aloes are beautiful in broad light and shadow. Beyond the white city of Bastia you see a long way up the coast of Cap Corse, but the single and tame line of the hills seems to contain no scenery to be put in comparison with that of Western or Southern Corsica. From 8 A.M. till 4 P.M. I pass the time in a hay-field below the friendly shade of olive trees, writing letters a blazing fringe of scarlet poppies and the blueness of sea beyond and sky above, are all day long a charm of glorious colour. A hoopoe or two comes near now and then, and except these, no other bird but one, who sits in a companionable way on the topmost bare bough of an almond tree a few yards off, hour after hour, chattering with a soft multitudinous kind of note, as if he were four or five birds instead of one, chibbly-wibbly-twitter-witter unceasingly, unless when he darts down to the ground to seize a beetle. This shrike-such at least he seems to me-is a restless little fellow, flitting at times from tree to tree, but always returning to his favourite broad branch opposite where I lie. He gives me no little amusement sometimes, besides his continuous small chatter, he warbles with a good deal of pleasing delicate variety. Slowly returning at 5 by the dusty road to Bastia, I make a drawing of the city from the entrance, at a spot where, by the usual destiny of discomfort, the only available site was not only close to the cliff, but exposed to the throng of carts and loaded mules, which at this hour fill all the public road. The Suliot, however, did good service, by warding off the latter, and by signing to the drivers of the former to give me a little more room, as well as by cajoling and conversing with the many children who crowded round, and I was enabled to get through an elaborate drawing success@fully. Bastia from this point is picturesque, though not beautiful no charm of architecture commends it in any way yet the large masses of building on the edges of cliffs, with caves and coves, slips of sand, and clear water, in deep shadow, and all alive with dabbling and swim@ming children, make a good picture though the houses are so full of very elaborate detail, and so crowded with peculiarities characteristic of  buildings, that the view is one requiring much patience to complete. See Plate  sunset, passing through the narrow suburbans treets and the broader handsome portion of the newer town, I return to dine at the comfortable H6tel de France.96 May 25.-The daily life of cities begins late nor in nor out of this hotel can coffee be procured before 5.30 A.M., when I set off with trap, Fiora and C@o. to Cap Corse,97 to get as far as Luri, Macinaggio, or Rogliano,  the place where, they say, Bernadotte, King of Sweden, was made corporal, at the time of the construction of the road from Bastia to Ajaccio, under Louis XVI. Bernadotte, when corporal, often worked in the bureau of an employé in the town of Bastia, and falling in love with his daughter, asked her in marriage, and was refused. Later, when wishing to marry a girl of Cardo above Bastia, he met with a similar refusal. The woman of Cardo, who had died lately at an advanced age, often related anecdotes of her acquaintance with Bernadotte.-Galletti, p. 196. The common soldier, Bernadotte, once fell in love with the daughter of a peasant of Cardo the parents repulsed the povero diavolo. But the povero diavolo became king, and if he had married the lass she would have been queen. Now she goes about carrying water on her head, grieving she is not a Swedish sovereign.-Gregorovius, p. 109. Half a league from Bastia is the little village of Cardo, where, of all the exquisite springs of water in Corsica, exists one of the best. The inhabitants of Cardo sell it at Bastia in the summer for two sous a bottle and this unique branch of commerce brings as much as 600 francs a year to some of the poor families of Cardo. The picturesque source of Cardo gushes from rocks hidden in olive, walnut, and chesnut trees almost too cold in summer, and temperate in winter, it is abundant, and never dries up. The old fountain made by M. de Marboeuf is now nearly forsaken, and the water is taken from higher up, because one of those immense Corsican walnut-trees, which might yield such profit to industry, chokes the subterranean canal with its roots. Some of these walnut trees yield as much as 120 bushels of nuts the most remarkable are those at the village of Asco, in the arrondissement of Corte.-@Valery, i., p. 31. @@An illustrious French soldier acknowledged that the happiest day of his life was that when, a common soldier and obliged to work at making the road to St. Florent, he was named corporal. But there exists in Corsica, besides the road to St. Florent, another and a more singular monu@ment of the work of Bernadotte. During the leisure which his new step allowed him, he was em@ployed by the usher of the old council to copy rolls the archives of the council possessed volu@minous bundles of the handy-work of the royal and warlike hand of the future successor of the Wasas@-@all of which writings have since passed to the archives of the prefecture of Ajaccio.-Valery, i., p. 32. 97 The northern point of Corsica, called Capo Corso, is about thirty miles long, very mountainous and rocky, but covered with vines and olives. There are, in several parts of the island, but particularly in Capo Corso, a great many ancient towers, built about 300 or 400 years ago, to defend the inhabitants against the incursions of the Turks and other pirates.-Boswell, p. 21. Boswell sailed from Leghorn in a Tuscan vessel, in a calm of two days, and landed at Centuri, and thence went to the house of Signor Antonio Antonelli at Morsiglia. Then to Pino, to Signor Damiano Tomasi. I got, he says, a man with an ass to carry my baggage, but such a road I never saw it was absolutely scrambling along the face of a rock overhanging the sea, upon a path sometimes not a foot broad. I thought the ass rather retarded me, so I prevailed with the man to take my portmanteau and other things on his back p. 276 . Throughout all Corsica, except in garrison towns, there is hardly an inn. For some time I had very curious travelling, mostly on foot, and attended by a couple of stout women, who carried my baggage on their heads p. 278 . I was lodged sometimes in private houses, sometimes in convents, being always well recommended from place to place-at Patri@monio, c., at Oletta. Centuri, though at present but a small harbour, may be greatly enlarged, as its situation is very con@venient. -Boswell, p. 16. The inhabitants of Cap Corse, peaceable, honest, laborious, seem really the virtuous Troglodytes of Corsica. No Vendetta is known to this interesting population, and from 1825 to 1830 there was not  may happen. Mountains, richly wooded, and dotted with villas, rise directly above Bastia, and are prolonged to the northernmost point of the island along their base runs the road, ever close to the sea, a sort of cornice, which follows all the indentations and sinuosities of the coast. This highway, besides the hot, dusty, and shelterless road to Bonifacio, a  mountains of Cap Corse fronts magnificent sea views, with shores rich in vine, olive, and fig.-@Valery, i., pp. 29, 30. The social culture of the vine, which is identified with security, ease, and the progress of civilisation, is not less extended at Cap Corse than on the Continent. The annual amount export of wine reaches 300,000 or 400,000 francs. These wines, light and generous, and which keep well, are often sold as Spanish. It is at Cap Corse only that the production of silk has been successfully attempted.@. This silk, said to be even superior to that of Piedmont, is one of the many neglected sources of riches and prosperity in the island.-@Valery, i., p. 30. The wine of Morsiglia, in Cap Corse, is thought as good as the best muscat.-Galletti, p. 107. Cape Corso is the long narrow peninsula which runs out into the sea, and terminates Corsica towards the north. The rugged mountain chain, called the Serra, traverses it, rising in Monte Alticcione and in Monte Stello to a height of more than 5,000 feet, and descending in lovely valleys towards the coasts. Here and there an abandoned tower on the shore. gives a picturesque aspect to the landscape. All Corsica is beset with these towers, built by the Pisans and Genoese to protect the coasts against the predatory Saracens. They are round or quadrangular, built in lonely situations, of brown granite, and of a height of not more than from thirty to forty feet. All these towers are now abandoned and falling to decay they give an exceedingly romantic character to the Corsican landscape. Rambling on these heights at a distance from the sea-shore, one sees little of the charms of this beautiful district, which lie concealed in the valleys. All Cape Corso is a system of such glens towards the sea on both sides. Cape Corso is not, as might be supposed, a mere cape or headland, but a narrow peninsula, containing a number of villages, and washed on each side by the Tuscan sea being about twenty-five miles long, though only from five to ten miles broad. Nearly the whole area is occupied by a continuation of the central chain which traverses the island from north to south. The average height of the range through Cape Corso, where it is called La Serra, does not exceed 1,500 feet above the level of the sea, but it swells into lofty peaks the highest, Monte Stella, between Brando and Nonza, rising 5,180 feet above the Mediterranean.-Gregorovius, p. 32. The village of Tomino, with a population of 700, has on one side a cheerful view over mountains and well cultivated valleys on the other, an admirable sea view, the isles of Pianosa, Montecristo, and Elba, of Capraija, and Gorgona, and the coasts of Genoa and Tuscany. Looking at this prospect, one might almost believe, with Peter of Corsica, that nature arranged all this magnificent decoration for the particular benefit of his countrymen. Tomino was the cradle of Christianity in Corsica about the year 580-a fact which gave Cape Corso its ancient surname Sacrum Promontorium. Little caves in the woods near Forcore and Cala, which the country people believe to have served as'shelter against the Saracens, were the obscure catacombs of the first Christians ot the island.@-@Valery, i., p. 38. The bold expedition, started from Macinajo, by which Paoli took the Island of Capraia from the Genoese in 1767, was principally composed of people of Tomino, whose courage he well knew. The last soldier of the illustrous Corsican general was from Tomino, and died, aged ninety-two, in 1826. In the church a beautiful silver tabernacle, executed at Lima, and presented by an inhabitant of @@Tomino who had made his fortune there, was offered by the commune to Paoli that it might be changed into money in order to carry on the war with Genoa. Macinajo, a small though safe port, insufficient for the commerce of Cape Corse, and very near Tomino, after having been the point of departure for the Capraia exploit was the scene of the people's enthusiasm, when Paoli, an exile for twenty years, landed here on July 14, 1790.-Valery, i., p. 39. The port of Macinaggio is, after that of Bastia, the most frequented in Corsica, serving as an outlet for the produce of great part of Cap Corse, the inhabitants of which, laborious, hardy, and enterprising, are mostly seamen. But it is much choked with sand, and requires much to be done for its improve@ment. -Grandchamps, p. 96. The little island of Capraija belongs now to Italy, the Genoese having reserved it to themselves by  a steep ascent, leading over the hills to the canton of Neb@bio, seem the only drives about Bastia and, from what I have observed of its position, I cannot think it well adapted to be the residence of those who set their lines in pleasant places. Rambles to the villages high up on the hills there must needs be, and doubtless many pleasant ones but for invalids, the city@-@noisy, though cheerful, and exposed to violent winds in winter, and to excessive heat in summer@-@cannot, I fancy, be attractive. Yet, in so short a stay, and with so @little scope for observation, a man may overlook much, and easily jump at wrong conclusions. The way onward has plenty of interest here the view is never impeded by high walls, as in the neighbourhood of the northern lakes or the southern towns of Italy. To the right is the bright calm sea, with Elba on its horizon, and, looking to the left you seem always in a garden of almond, walnut, fig, and cherry trees the Diligence I meet is piled up high with cherry baskets for the Bastia market , corn, potatoes, and flax, varied at times by olive groves, while in the roadside hedges, pink convolvulus, scarlet pea, and honeysuckle are blooming in gay and fragrant wreaths. Brando, with one or two other villages, is passed there is a celebrated grotto here 98- mais nous en avons tant vu-we have seen so many, and I will not stop at the grotto. But Erbalunga, a good-sized and most picturesque place, some nine or ten kilomètres from Bastia, cannot be left so hastily. Standing on a little pro@montory, with a dark castle in ruin at its point,99 and with Elba beyond, this this  to France. Its circumference is seventeen miles, its population 100.-@Valery, i., p. 40. Capraija, which the Corsicans conquered in the time of Paoli, remained in the possession of the Genoese when they sold Corsica to France and, with Genoa, the island then fell to the share of Piedmont.-Gregorovius, p. 101. The commune of Ersa is the land's end of Corsica the commune has three coves or little ports, of which the largest is called Barcaggio.-@Galletti, p. 105. 98 The pretty cascade of Brando, falling some thirty feet, and about half a league from Erbalunga, is worth leaving the road to see. It is from Brando that the beautiful stone@-@a kind of marble which makes so noble a pavement for Bastia-is brought.@-@Valery, i., p. 34. In one of the rocks on the coast is the beautiful stalactite cave of Brando..... The pale half light now illuminated this beautiful crypt with such fantastic stalactitic formations as only a Gothic architect can imagine, in pointed arches, capitals, tabernacles, and rosettes. The grotto is the oldest Gothic cathedral in Corsica nature built it so in her most enchanting whimsical humour. So says the poetical Gregorovius, p. 154. The grotto of Brando, discovered in 1841 by M. Ferdinandi, a retired commandant, is excessively curious.-Galletti, p. 98. An account of the Grotto of Brando may be found in Miss Campbell's unpretending and valuable Southward Ho ! or, Notes on Corsica 1868, Hatchard . 99 Here was formerly the residence of the most powerful Signori of Cape Corso, and the ancient castle of the Signori del Gentili still looks down upon Erbalunga, its mighty black walls towering up from a rocky hill. .@.@... Even at the present day the Corsican mountaineers look down with contempt upon the gentle and stirring people of the peninsula of Cape Corso. The historian Filippini says of  is one of the very prettiest of scenes, and detains me drawing it till 7 A.M. The still sea, palest of the pale, and more like liquid opal, and the equally pale sky of early morning, are beautifully contrasted with the dark gray of the rocks and houses, at this time in deepest shadow, and with the luxuriant foreground of fig trees and other  Erbalunga, this northern Corsican cornice becomes more wild, and resembles that on the southern or Bonifacio district see page 73 , except that here there is a frequent growth of aloes, wanting in the south. In both the road runs at times close to pic@turesque cliffs, or descends sharply inland to the marina or port, of some village , which you may see high up 011 the hill, a half-moon of sand, with a few fishermen's houses, leaving which you again mount up to follow the cliff-cornice, with rocks and maquis above you, rocks and sea below. Sisco 100 is one of the largest of these inhabitants, they dress well, and are, from their commerce, and the vicinity of the continent, much more domestic than the other Corsicans. Their in@dustry is employed solely on wine, which they export to the continent. As early as Filippini's time, the wine of Cape Corso was renowned, and mainly of a white colour. The wines of the greatest repute are those of Luri and Rogliano these are among the most excellent growths of southern Europe, re@sembling those of Spain, Cyprus, and Syracuse. Cape Corso is, however, rich in oranges and lemons. -Gregorovius, p. 156. 100 The church of Sisco possesses among its nu@merous relics two of the oldest which the imagination of Catholicism, either Spanish or Italian, has ever originated some almonds from the garden of Eden, and some of the clay from which Adam was made. The other principal relics are the rod with which Moses divided the Red Sea, that of Aaron, and some of the manna of the desert.@-@Valery, i., p. 35. The people of Sisco may feel some pride in pos@sessing such fine things as a bit of the clod from which Adam was modelled, a few almonds from  villages or marinas beyond Cap Sagro its church is famous for the relics it contains that of Pietra Cor@bara is a second of Porticciuolo or Cognano a third and from the head of each of these little bays you look up a valley wholly green, closed in by the wall of Cap Corse hills, that shut out by their direct north and south course all the western side of the cape. There is but little variety in the drive but the oily-calm deep blue breadth of sea, and the beautiful flower-spangled maquis -for there is little cultivation hereabouts except in the lateral valleys@-@with every now and then peeps of the high back@bone of Cap Corse, prevent the drive being tedious. Porticciuolo is the last of these poor little sea-shore fishing hamlets, with its crescent of sand, its flat of grain, and its inland amphitheatre of heights, before you reach, at the twenty-seventh kilomètre from Bastia, Santa Severa, the Marina di Luri, a forlorn and unpromising cluster of cottages. Here there is a road which turns inland to the valley of Luri, so enthusiastically described to me by Miss C., who advised me by all means to visit it. So little remarkable, however, is the first@@ opening of the vale, that I feel undecided as to staying here, or rather whether I should not go on to Macinaggio, and return to Erbalunga to sleep. But further on, the thick Aaron's rod that blossomed, a bit of manna from the desert, a bit of the hide worn by John the Baptist, a bit of Christ's cradle, a bit of Christ's reed, and the celebrated rod with which Moses parted the Red Sea.-Page 157. An old tower is shown by the people between Sisco and Pietro-Corbara, believed by them to be the winter residence of Seneca.-Galletti, p,  of very fine old olives, lemon-groves, walnut, and many varieties of fruit trees give a new character to the scenery, which improves at every minute. All the way along, a tower on a high and remarkable peaked rock, is a landmark on the hills, at the farthest end of the vale-this is Seneca's tower -and now that I have advanced to its widest part, I am ready to confess that the valley of Luri is a most lovely place, crowded from end to end with profuse vegetation, shut in by beautiful hill forms with scattered hamlets on their sides, and seeming altogether like a veritable happy valley of  10 the principal village, Piazza di Luri, is reached collectively all the hamlets are called Luri, but each has its own name , and one cannot help being struck by an aspect of activity and industry in this place widely differing from what is to be observed in South and West Corsican villages. I have forgotten to ask for a letter to the Maire or to some proprietor in@@  Luri, and the latter, besides, has the sea. Cultivated with intelligence, refreshed by a torrent, it is divided by a large and broad road down to the shore. This is protected from the torrent by a wall, a sort of Cyclopean work, made by the inhabitants themselves. The overseer of the works was simply the Juge de Paix, M. Estella, a proprietor of the valley, and one of those able and adventurous Corsicans who during more than twenty years inhabited Peru.-@Valery, i., p. 42. M. Estella died April, 1841.-E. L. Luri is the most charming valley in Cape Corso, and the most extensive too, though it is only six miles long and three broad. Towards the land side it is enclosed by high mountains, on the highest summit of which stands a solitary black tower, called the Tower of Seneca, because, according to popular story, Seneca passed there the eight years of his exile.@... I have seen many a glorious valley in Italy, but I remember none that presents so smiling and joyous an aspect as this vale of Luri.@.@.@. Even Ptolemy, in his Corsican Geography, knows the vale of Luri. He calls it Lurinon. ..... The citrons of this valley are said to be considered the best in all the Mediterranean countries. It is principally the species of citrons with thick peel, called Cedri, that is grown here, and especially on the whole western coast of the cape, but most of all at Centuri. This tree, which is extremely tender, demands careful training. It thrives only in warm sunshine, and in the valleys that are sheltered from the wind Libeccio. Cape Corso is a perfect Elysium of this precious tree of the Hesperides.-Gregorovius, pp. 158, 159. A little beyond Porticciuolo is Santa Severa, the Marina of Luri, where a very few boats may be seen. Hereabouts the ancient Laurinum is generally placed, and, in fact, ruins are found in several places around, and in the sea are the remains of some kind of quay.-Galletti, p. 103. Not much importance is generally attached to the cultivation of the orange and lemon, nor are they cared for except in some villages of Cape Corso, Casinca, Marina, in the Nebbio and Balagna, Ajaccio, Bonifacio, Cervione, and Bastia. The garden of Barbicaggio near Ajaccio, and those of Aregno and Corbara in Balagna produce oranges which do not yield in excellence to those of Portugal. A more special attention is given to the culture of the citron, and the inhabitants of Cape Corso, more particularly in communication with the Rivières of Italy, have carried this cultivation to a point of great profit. Wherever there is a streamlet of water they hasten to plant citron trees, and as this part of the island is exposed to the north wind or Libeccio , the plants are sheltered by high walls, and surrounded besides by a palisade formed with brushwood, broom, heath, or other shrubs, woven together very compactly. Nothing is neglected to ensure the success of a plant which gives three harvests of its fruit annually. When the citrons have reached the size of from two to five kilos weight, they are given to the confectioner. -Galletti, p. 42. The mountain between Luri and Meria is almost entirely covered with larix pines, thanks to the care of the late M. Estella, who, on returning from America to his native country, caused a great extent of land to be sown with pine seed, which in a few years has formed a fine forest. -Calletti, p. 104.  valley, and the people about, all of whom seem busy, say there is no regular hotel here but they direct me to a Casa Cervoni, in the upper part of the two or three streets forming the village, just off the main road, at which the opinion seems general that I may be able to find a lodging. Madame Cervoni, a very tidy bustling little body, comes out of the general shop, or store in the lower part of her house, and is at first rather difficult as to my request- they are 'occupati' just now the silkworms-of which their two adjoining houses are full-are about to change, and require all their attention, c., c.-but after a little time she relents, and pleasantly declares she will receive me on condition of my kindly adapting myself to the circonstanze. And then-yet another marvel of humble lodgings in remote country parts of Corsica-she shows me into a perfectly neat and clean sitting-room up-stairs, with small bed-rooms so completely good in all ways, that I resolve at once-especially that I am now well persuaded of the beautiful character of Luri scenery-to remain here for the night. There will be fully enough work in the valley, and at Seneca's tower, to occupy me this afternoon and a part of to-morrow and, finally, since I find on inquiry, that to go on to Tonino or Rogliano would be a journey of hurry and fatigue, not reckoning the way back by the sea-wall to Bastia, I definitely settle that Luri is to be the farthest point I can visit in the north of Corsica. It is seventeen kilomètres from the marina of Luri to Macinaggio, and this doubled, with the addition of five hence to the sea, and twenty-seven of return to Bastia, are in all sixty-six, a distance which would allow of no leisure, even if there are subjects to draw, which is doubtful. The breakfast which my hostess, or rather the host's sister, brings up, is a frugal one but the nice tidy little woman apologises for its scarcity, on the usual ground that it is not possible to get either fish or meat on so short a notice the extreme cleanliness of everything might have done credit to a Dutch inn, and was the counterpart of the hotel at Evisa. As novelties I remark a plate of preserved citron, 102 and that the wine is unlike any known to my Corsican experience, white, and not unlike an inferior Chablis, but stronger. The master of the house, too, comes, and sits down-a plain straight@forward man, full of zeal for agricultural progress, and singularly unlike the more apathetic Corsican, so generally typical of the race on the further side of the island. Not being a regular innkeeper, M. Cervoni says, I beg you to make as much, and as long a use of my house as you please this room and the bed-room are at your disposal, and one up-stairs for your man and whatever other assistance or information I can give you, pray let me know.@@ He talks of silkworms, which, he says, do not as yet succeed particularly in the valley,  of the citron. According to M. Tommei, the Maire of Luri, the Cape produces 1,600 kilogrammes of this fruit.  in the valley, but believes that this arises from want of knowledge and care of the different sorts of wines made in Cap Corse of general culti@vation and of the Maire, M. Estella, who died in 1841, and whose portrait hangs in the room, the founder of all prosperity in Luri. And I remark his Italian to be of the best I have heard spoken in Corsica possibly the nearness of Tuscany influences the dialect of this northern part of the island, though throughout all this Corsican tour I have been agreeably surprised at finding no difficulty in understanding the people even the peasants talk a sort of South-Italian or Neapolitan dialect, which was long ago familiar to me. M. Cervoni, as well as M. Tommei, the Maire who comes to visit me on hearing that a stranger has arrived , tells me that I can go up in the carriage towards Seneca's tower as far as just below the Capuchin convent at its base, by the road which leads to Pino and that from the convent the ascent on foot is easy. Both host and visitor dissuade me from going there till sunrise to-morrow, at which hour, they say, the coast of Italy is clearly visible. Miss C. seems to have been a great favourite here, and to have delighted all the people by her resolute activity and genial ways. Later I went with my pleasant intelligent landlord to see his silkworms -two houses full, in every open-windowed room, on stages from floor to ceiling, and so placed as to admit of constantly cleaning the vermi -a sight which recalled to me some nights of Cretan discomfort, when the said vermi, or caterpillars, were not in possession of a home of their own, but occupied, very unpleasantly, every inhabitable corner of the dwelling. Here everything connected with the culture was faultlessly clean. At 3 P.M. I go out, intending to get drawings of this beautiful valley, though its position, directly east and west, make it no easy place to study in all the views, from the nature of the place, require you to sit directly opposite the sun, and the blaze of light at this hour tries the sight extremely. Some time, therefore, is well spent below a large wych elm, close to the church, until near sunset, where the schoolmaster gives me some information respecting the valley. There are fourteen hamlets in it, the combined population of which is 2,011. Piazza is the name of the principal village Poggio, where the Maire resides, that of the next largest Santa Severa is the marina. Close to where I sit is the stream which runs through the whole length of this vale to the sea at present but a gentle streamlet, it is a fierce torrent in winter, only kept in bounds by the causeway which M. Estella was the first to commence. Growing above the stream are mulberry and massive walnut trees, ilex, olive, fig, and alder, the great variety of the vegetation in this valley being one of its first charms, and filling it with exquisite scenery of the quietest and most delightful kind. No loiterers, who at Olmeto, Vico, or elsewhere, are so conspicuous an ingredient of Corsican village life, are to be  here every one is occupied in agriculture, and the only sounds near are from the school close by, whence there comes a hum of studious children, and from the low underwood by the water, every bush of which resounds with the voices of countless nightingales and when, later in the day, I make a drawing above the valley from close to a tufted grove of chesnuts, the multitude of warblers there is most delightful. But, unable to encounter drawing for any length of time in face of the setting sun, I am obliged to desist, not before my eyes have suffered. Every@body, I observe, as they come up the road to the villages at the west end of the valley, protect their sight by umbrellas from the direct rays so exactly opposite. There was little to be done, therefore, but to seek out spots below the long-armed olives they are like those at the monastery of S. Procopius in Corfù , whence I may make a drawing to-morrow and so, by degrees, I go back to the village, never in any way molested by any one in this Rasselas' happy valley. A dinner, more respected in its commencement of soup and boiled fowl, than in its conclusion of citron and raw peas, concludes the day. It should not be overlooked that in these places it is expedient to eat up the contents of the first dishes presented to you, lest no others so good, or even lest none at all, should follow. Now that the sun is down, the rich full greenness of this little valley is delicious but if it is so hot now, what must its temperature be in August ? There is a good breeze, however, and no feverish feeling whatever. Remembering Olmeto and Sarténé, Bonifacio, Tallano, and Vico, how grateful is the cleanliness of this pleasant little house ! Talk with my land@lord and his intelligent and agreeable sister passed away the rest of the evening. May 26.-The most restless or fastidious might sleep well in the little bed-room of the Maison Cervoni at Luri, the cleanliness of which was so evident that I did not even have my camp-bed set up. The obliging people of the house had risen, purposely to get me coffee, at a very early hour, and at 4 A.M. Domenico and the trap were ready-Flora, perceiving that no luggage was to be taken, wisely preferring to remain behind. The carriage road leading from Luri to Pino 103 on the west side of Cap Corse, is one of the more recently made routes forestières of Corsica it soon ascends the hills at the end of the valley, winding up the Cap Corse backbone, as it were, by beautiful woods of chesnut and ilex above Poggio and other hamlets-every turn bringing to view fresh charms, either in the combinations of the convent and the rock of Seneca's tower, or in the long vista of the vale of Luri, still all in shadow as far as the faint blue sea line. 5 the  would not be a pleasure to drive down unless with a careful driver, by reason of frequent sharp turns on the edge of steep precipices, and of the absence of parapets. In a narrow cutting of the rock through which the road is carried at its highest point of elevation, a white marble tablet is fixed, at the height of six or seven feet above the ground, and on it is the following inscription -Dernière pensée d'un Corse, mourant à 2000 lieues de sa patrie-' Ecrivez à nos compatriotes d'ouvrir une route de Pino à Sainte Lucie-sous-Seneque. Si l'argent venait à manquer, quelqu'un y pourvoira.' 23  104 A dying thought, it seems to me, better worth commemoration than many less unselfish which it has been considered right to preserve. A few steps beyond this cutting you come on the wide expanse of the sea to the west of Corsica, and I should have liked much to have followed the descending road to Pino and other villages, on this side of Cap Corse, especially to Pino, having an introductory letter to M. Piccioni the Maire of Bastia, who resides there but of this time would not allow, and I regret extremely to be able to see so little of this Cape, one of the most interesting parts of the island. From the top of the ascent I now send back Domenico and the trap, and following the footpath which leads up from immediately above the tablet rock, through aromatic maquis, to the old Capuchin convent, I continue to mount the path, here broken and narrow, to the tower, so-called, of  Pino has a few château-like houses and beautiful parks, where a Roman duca would not disdain to dwell. There are millionaires even in Corsica, and especially on the Cape, among whom are a few whose wealth has been gained by themselves or their relations in the Antilles, Mexico, and Brazil.@.@.@. Above Pino extends the canton Rogliano, together with Ersa and Centuri, a district distinguished for its wine, oil, and lemons, and vying with Luri in cultivation. The five pièvi of the Cape, Brando, Martino, Luri, Rogliano, and Nonza, have in all twenty-one communes, and about 19,000 inhabitants.@-@Gregorovius, pp. 159, 161. Pino, remarkable for its many towers and its fine houses. It is the native place of Piccioni, a man who has merited well of humanity, by bequeathing large sums of money to his compatriots for various charities in dowries for young girls who are in poverty, in helps to educational institutions, in opening new roads, and in many valuable gifts to his parish church. He died at St. Thomas, in America, but his remains have been brought to Pino and buried in a superb tomb.@.@. Minerbio, a little village of the commune of Barettali, and on the road leading to Pino, is surely the happiest corner of the island no crime, nor any of those implacable hatreds which desolate Corsica, has ever troubled the profound calm enjoyed by these peaceable people, who as yet only know the golden a@ge.-Galletti, p. 107. 104 Last thought of a Corsican, dying at a distance of 2,000 leagues from his country-' Write to our compatriots to open a road from Pino to St. Lucie-sous-Seneque. If money should be wanting, somebody will provide it.' 23 December, 1846. This modest tablet, I hear, was placed where it now stands by M. Piccioni, the present Maire of Bastia, and relates, I am told, to his father, Signor Piccioni, of St. Thomas's in the West Indies.-E. L. 105 This part of the island is full of vague and whimsical traditions of Seneca, exiled to Corsica for seven years, on account of his too great intimacy with Julia, daughter of Germanicus, and from which he was recalled by Agrippina, c. The hermit of the convent of S. Nicolas did not fail to show us the staircase, the oven, and even the chapel of Seneca, c. The solidity of construction of the Tower of Seneca must be extreme, exposed as it has been to the tempests of centuries it was really, under the name of Torre de' Moti, one of the forts of the Signori da Mare, famous in the wars of the  105 But after toiling a good way up I abandon the pilgrimage, because a thick mist covers the sea, and not a symptom of the shores of Italy can be dis@covered the coast of Cap Corse is on this side thoroughly wild and rugged, but does not seem to me to possess any particular interest moreover, I am disinclined to encounter any extra fatigue. The latter part of the climb to this old tower-so G. informs me, who went to the top-is very steep and  The building itself, though of early date, does not appear to have anything of Roman times in its composition rather it has been erected by the Pisans, or by the Signori di Mare, who ruled this part of the island  i., p. 46. @The construction of this edifice seems nevertheless to belong to a less remote epoch, and in no way indicates a Roman origin. Whatever it may be, it has always preserved in Corsica the tradition of Seneca's stay there, and the name of it is given to the canton. Above the Tower of Seneca is Pinzo-Vergine, where are ruins of Dolmens or Druidical altars.@-@Galletti, p. 104. Seneca, the philosopher, hath left us two most horrid pictures of Corsica, very false indeed, but  is treason in the estimation of the good people of Luri, who firmly adhere to their opinion that Seneca, the philosopher, was shut up in it. My father, said one of the inhabitants of the valley to me, told me that this was told to him by his father, and back from father to son for eighteen centuries you see, therefore, that the story cannot be otherwise than true -a position I did not attempt to combat. What is more to the purpose, so far as a painter is concerned, is that this rock and tower of Seneca are most picturesque thick groups of ilex grow at the base of the pinnacle, and all the upper part of it is a bright bare  the very forlorn and ill-kept garden of the Capuchin convent there @.@.@. He was banished to Corsica, where he remained for seven years.@.@.@. Here he indulged his fretted imagination in the following epigrams - O sea-girt Corsica ! whose rude domains First owned the culture of Phocaean swains Cyrnus, since thus the Greeks thy isle express, Greater than Ilva, than Sardinia less O Corsica ! whose winding rivers feed Unnumbered, as their sands, the finny breed O Corsica ! whose raging heats dismay When first returning summer pours her ray ! Yet fiercer plagues thy scorching shores dispense When Sirius sheds her baneful influence Spare, spare the banished ! spare, since such his doom, A wretch, who living, seeks in thee a tomb ! Light lay thy earth, in pity to his pains, Light lay thy earth upon his sad remains. --Boswell, pp. 13, 14. Seneca surely lived in one of the Roman colonies, Aleria or Mariana, where the Stoic, accustomed to Roman comfort, may have furnished a nice house near the sea, from whence the favourite mullus or tunny had no long journey to his dinner-table. To the exiled Seneca the island was only a prison to be hated. The little that he says about it in his letter of consolation shows how little he knew about it. For instance- This island is scarce fertile enough for the sustenance of its own inhabitants it produces nothing desired by other nations. -Gregorovius, p. 166. Gregorovius, who has some very amusing chapters about Seneca, gives translations of the two epigrams written by or attributed to him during his Corsican exile. Corsican island, thou erst by Phocaean colonists dwelt in, Corsica whom they called Cyrnus in language of Greece Corsica, shorter than great Sardinia, longer than Elba Corsica, crossed and recrossed by many streams full of fish Corsica, terrible isle when summer's first heat 'gins to burn us, Fiercer yet when his face, Sirius shows in the sky. Spare then the exiles-rather the buried already I'd style them@-O'er poor living men's dust soft be thy covering soil. Barbarous, and by rugged rocks in Corsica guarded Desert and vast are her fields, barren on every side No fruits autumn matures, nor corn the summer doth ripen, Nor by Pallas' dear gift is the dark winter cheered Never is spring there blest by the growth of shadowy leafage Never a plant that will thrive in the poor hapless soil Here is nor bread nor water, nor life's last boon, even fire, seen Here is the Banished alone, lone with his Banishment. @Grego@rovius, p. 170.  beautiful views from the valley but still more so are those from points a little below and beyond the monastery. There is something peculiarly finished and delicate in the succession of slope after slope, all clothed in green, spread@ing away gradually and more faintly, and diminishing into aerial distance, till the picture is closed by the sea, with Elba, floating as it were-so pale and indistinct is the sea-line-in the filmy atmosphere above it, like Gulliver's island of Laputa. See Plate 32. Walking down the hill, I am hailed by some one who is superintending the mending of part of the road, and the agreeable Maire of Luri, M. Tommei, joins me. It would have been a pleasure to have accepted his friendly invitation to visit him at Poggio in this charming valley, and to have explored it more thoroughly with one who knows it so well. M. Tommei thinks that the old Lurinum stood below the village of Mercurie, and he points out to me some distant old towers not however, to my thinking of Roman fabrication, which he believes to mark its limits. As we arrived at his village, the Maire presses me to have some refreshment at his house, but when I tell him I dare not lose a minute of working time, now that the sun is so rapidly mounting, and that the great heat and absence of shadow in the valley would soon stop my morning's labours, he leaves me with great good breeding to my own devices. These consisted in hard work to get such drawings as may recall as much as possible the dense vegetation of this lovely valley, and in returning higher up the road to make some fresh memoranda, a task as irksome, now that I have to look east to a dazzling sun, as that of my western drawing was yesterday evening. My foreground might at least have been embellished by the largest snake I have seen in the island, and, truth to say, it is one of five I have seen in Luri, and of these three were dead, so that it is plain their reputed harm@lessness brings them no immunity from persecution. After this there only remains the completion of drawings commenced yesterday and by 10.30 I returned to Madame Cervoni's breakfast, which, to-day, in its excellent stewed fowl and ivory white broccio, shows greater research than on the first essay. The Maire and the village doctor came in afterwards and the landlord brings samples of Cap Corse vintage a conver@sazione prolongs itself till Flora and C@o. are ready, and I leave these plain and friendly people and the happy valley with regret. Before starting I make enquiries as to the road in the Balagna near the Ponte dell' Asco, Miss C. having very kindly written to me at Bastia warning me that the bridge has been carried away by the river the doctor says that from Belgodere there is a road to Moltifäo and thence to Corte without the necessity of passing the Asco at the broken bridge, but my host and the Maire doubt if that way be practicable for my carriage, light one though it be, and advise me to ascertain distinctly well at Belgodere whether it will not be better for me to return  Bastia, and thence to Corte-a caution to which, after the Bastelica incident of May 3rd, I am inclined favourably to listen. BASTIA. At 2 P.M. I leave Piazza di Luri, and passing through the groves of aged white and gray-armed olives, and the rich abundance of fig, lemon, and walnut, soon arrive at the Marina of Sta. Severa by the sea. Far beyond my expecta@tions have been the interest and beauty of the valley of Luri, and long shall I remember its pleasant and industrious people, its quiet and shady gardens and woody hill slopes, and its lofty tradi@tional beacon tower, with its tales of the Roman philosopher. Very beautiful are some of the mouths of the little valleys of Cap Corse on such a day as this, the pure emerald green water close in shore rippling over the milk-white sand the mountains south of Bastia pearl clear on the horizon, and looking seaward@- blue were the waters, blue the sky, -to the hill of island Elba on the line between them. The coast road-red-legged par@tridges now and then trot briskly across it@-@is accomplished as far as Brando, where again I reject Domenico's sug@gestion that the Grotto should be seen, and shortly afterwards, sending on the trap, I pass an hour, spite of the great heat, in making a drawing of the white city on its promontory, seen between graceful olives bending over the sea. By 6.30 I have walked on to Bastia. Alas for the exclusive and evanescent Moufflon ! After having resided here a week, he has gone back to his home at  X. Leave Bastia-Ascent-Gardens-View over the Plain of Biguglia-Range of the Nebbio Hills-Gulf of St. Florent-Pass between Rocks-Town of St. Florent-Hôtel des Passageurs-Arrival of Ironclads-Solitude around St. Florent-Picturesque Houses-Excellent Cheer at M. Donzella's Inn-New Beds-Leave St. Florent-Scenery on the North of Corsica-Approach to Île Rousse its Picturesque Bay and Rocks-Interior of the Town-Hôtel De Giovanni-The demure Waitress -Leave Île Rousse-Algayola, its deserted appearance-Beautiful Scenery of the Balagna@-Village of Lumio-Bay of Calvi, and approach to the Town-Legend of the imprudent Bishop-Forsaken condition of Calvi its Fortifications-Civility of Corsican innkeepers-Calvi the Faithful-Neighbourhood of Calenzana. May 27, 6 A.M.-Off from the Hotel de France, a very fair inn, with a good cook and very obliging master. The road to la Balagna 106-the two divisions of which, upper and lower, I have just four days to do -climbs the steep hill immediately behind Bastia as soon as you leave it, and zig-zags among villas and fruit gardens, with a view of the city ever at your feet, and more and more of a bird's-eye nature as you go slowly up the stiff ascent. In many of the gardens I remark a profusion of tall white lilies cypresses, too, which are not common in Corsica 107 and, for the first time in the island, Japan medlars. Towards the south, the plain of Mariana and the unhealthy marsh and lake of Biguglia are spread out as if in an unrolled map no breeze is stirring, and looking eastward there is not a single ruffle or ripple on the calm water from shore to horizon. So delicately smooth is it, as perfectly to resemble the palest blue-gray satin, with a broad and lovely shimmer of light eastward of Elba- A light upon the shining sea. Higher up, city and cultivation left behind, the now well-known Corsicans of Monte Bello for a couple of miles. You look down on your left into the plain of Biguglia and Furiani, and into the large lagoon into which the river Bevinco empties itself.@.@.@. When the summit is reached, the road descends towards the western coast, the eastern being lost from sight and the enchanting picture of the Gulf of San Fiorenzo suddenly opens out before your eyes.@.@.@. This road was laid down by Count Marboeur, and it was here that Bernadotte laboured on the roads.@-@Gregorovius, p. 253. The road from Bastia to St. Florent presents such steep inclines and so many curves, that sooner or later it will be necessary to rectify it by the valleys of the Bevinco and the Aliso. It is little frequented, and the passage of carts meet throughout great difficulties.-Grandchamps, p. 104. 107 I saw but few and small cypresses in Corsica, yet they ought to belong particularly to this island of death.-Gregorovius, p. 240.  of cystus and maquis commences, with here and there groups of ilex and gray rocks draped with wild vine, honeysuckle, and purple vetch, with a wondrous affluence of vegetable beauty. Still the road-a capital Route Impériale-ascends, and at 7 A.M. and onwards the Casinca hills begin to be hidden by the nearer Nebbio range of rounded green heights at 8 there is a space of level road and a good fountain, and soon afterwards the top of the Bocca or pass is reached at, I think, about the eleventh kilomètre from Bastia. Beyond this all Eastern Corsica wholly disappears, and you look down on the Gulf of St. Florent 108 on the north coast of the island, and on a new world of mountains@-@mountains are never wanting in Corsican land@scape and nowhere, except in the eastern plain of Aleria and near Bonifacio on the west, has the lover of any other kind of view the faintest chance of being gratified. The descent to the shore is in steep zig-zags, but at every turn of the road the scenery becomes more interesting, from the richness of olive growth @- about fifteen miles up into the country, and is about five miles across.@.@.@. There are several creeks and bays, particularly on the south side of it, which are quite secure. There is in particular a bay under the tower of Fornali, about two miles from San @Fiorenzo, which is highly esteemed, and where vessels of considerable burden may be safely stationed. -Boswell, p. 171. The Gulf of St. Florent, the safest in Corsica, almost recalls the brilliant beauty of La Spezia. Like that, it had attracted the attention of Napoleon, who had entertained a project of fortifying St. Florent, and of making it a station for the fleet, and who went so far as to intend making it the capital of the island. The Nebbio, of which St. Florent was the chief place, was always, since the defeat of the Romans at the Col di Tenda, the principal scene of the military events of the island, and the occupation of the one has constantly led to the conquest of the other.-@Valery, i., p. 54. The situation of San Fiorenzo is so glorious, and the gulf, one of the most beautiful on the Mediterranean, so alluring to a more considerable maritime settlement, that one cannot but wonder at its desolation. Napoleon mentions this place, in Antomarchi's Memoirs. On the right the gulf now opened out in its full size, and on the left, far in the background, is the high towering amphitheatre of mountains, which descend in a semicircle towards the sea basin. They are the proud mountains of Col di Tenda, at the foot of which the Romans of old were defeated by the Corsicans. They surmount the district called Nebbio, which encompasses the gulf of San Fiorenzo, and open out only towards that district. From the earliest times the Nebbio was regarded as a natural fortress wherefore all conquerors, from the Romans to the French, have endeavoured to force an entrance into it and gain a firm footing in it, and innumerable battles have been fought there. The Nebbio, at the present day, contains four cantons or pieves, San Fiorenzo, Oletta, Murato, and San Pietro di Tenda. According to Ptolemy, the ancient town of Cersunum must have stood somewhere on the gulf. In the middle ages the considerable town of Nebbio was situated here, whose ruins are half a mile distant from the present San Fiorenzo. The town decayed, like other considerable towns and bishoprics in Corsica, Accia, Sagano, c.-Gregorovius, pp. 254, 255. The ports in Corsica, numerous on the west side, are three only on the east. Those nearest to France are at the head of the gulfs of St. Florent, Calvi, Sagona, and Ajaccio. Their security is not complete, and in some of them vessels are in danger when the south-eastern winds blow with violence. -@Grandch@a@@mps, p. 82. See M. Grandchamps for details about improvements at Fo@mali, the true port of St. Florent.-E. L. On the northern shore of the gulf of St. Florent are two or three villages, of which the principal is Nonza. This is properly the key of Cape Corso because from the Cape into the interior parts of the island on the western side, there is only one pass, and that leads through this place.-Boswell, p. 26. Nonza, on an inaccessible rock by the sea-side.-Galletti, i., p. 109.  trees now loaded with blossom-and other fruit trees, and from the gradually widening prospect of mountain and of cape northward to Cap Corse, along the south-west corner of which the road to St. Florent in this upper part of its course may be said to be traced. Three or four villages, the most conspicuous of which is Patrimonio, are in sight, among slopes of green and olives in this cheerful landscape. 9 A.M., at the seventeenth kilomètre from Bastia, the road being now nearly level with the shore and passing through a broad green vale and scattered olives, turns westward to the mountains which here descend to the sea, leaving only a narrow pass through a rocky screen-the natural boundary on this side of the once warlike canton of Nebbio.109 This pass of picturesquely overhanging rocks, with immense hollows or caves below them, is very fine the dark openings of their gloomy recesses are perfectly fitted for backgrounds of brigand subjects and remind me of the great caverns near Eleutheropolis on the road from Gaza to Jerusalem, and by their colour and striped surface, of several similar grottoes near Corpo di Cava of Naples. In face of these caves-where the oleander grows abundantly by a slow streamlet-I halt to draw until 10, and then drive on to St. Florent, which is but a short way beyond this striking rock barrier. The town of St. Florent 110 appears even smaller than I expected,  and steep hills, which description infuriates the Abbé Galletti, who declares that the geographer never was there, but allowed himself to write after the dictation of an eccentric man, who led him into gross errors.-Galletti, p. 111. See Forester, p. 92, for remarks and details, well worth reading, of a journey through Nebbio, of the beauty of the woods, and of the cultivation in that district, which I regret I could not visit. -E. L. 110 St. Florent, well placed at the entrance of a fertile valley, has but 400 inhabitants it owes this to putrid and malignant fevers produced by the lagoon..... The land is excellent, and the cultivation of both cotton and sugar-cane has been tried with success in the vicinity. The difficulty of the paths from St. Florent to lie Rousse obliged me to go thither by sea.-Valery, i., pp. 55-62. @Half a mile from St. Florent stands the gothic cathedral of Ste. Marie de l'Assomption, not of large size, built of Corsican Travertino. Filippini records that a bell was found in the old Campanile bearing the date 700, the epoch of the Lombard rule. This church, as well as the adjoining ruins of the old episcopal palace, resemble at a distance a real fortress. Such an appearance, however, is quite in harmony with the qualities and prerogatives of those bishops of Nebbio, who took the title of Counts, wore a sword in the assemblies of state, and had two pistols on the altar when they said mass. The church may occupy the site of the ancient town Cersunum ..... excavations made in the neighbourhood have brought to light numerous Roman funeral monuments, dating per@haps as far back as the defeat of the Consul Papirius by the Corsicans at the Col di Tenda.-Valery, i., p. 56. Siege of St. Florent by Nelson in 1793.-Forester. San Fiorenzo was one of the first Corsican places that gave themselves to the Bank of Genoa in 1483--Gregorovius, p. 255. The journey of Gregorovius along this coast is full of interest, and exactly descriptive of the scenery as well as of the habits of Corsican life in 1852. On the whole journey I saw not a single conveyance. Now and then came a Corsican on horseback, with his double gun slung over his shoulders, and an umbrella over his head. Here, he grimly adds, they shoot a great many wild pigeons and men. -P. 257. I had been received at the house of M. Gentili, nephew of the General, and allied through his wife  how important a part it has always played in Corsican history, and looks almost too tiny it has but 750 inhabitants to have had any history at all. Its one short and narrow street leads to a little Piazza, where there is a little country inn-already favourably known to me by Miss C.'s report@-and quite delightful for cleanliness and comfort this is the Hôtel des Pas@sageurs, kept by Pietro Giuseppe Donzella, and, like other inns I have had occasion to mention, is a most strange contrast for its excellence to those in some of the larger towns. A short glance at St. Florent, which stands quite at t@@he water's edge, and is backed by what may be called fortified heights, though of no great eleva@tion, shows me that whatever work there may be for the pencil here will all lie in the direction of the farther side of the gulf, and that the one day I have allotted for this part of the island will abundantly suffice for all I require. M. Donzella provides at noon a capital breakfast his inn contains several rooms besides those allotted to me, all clean and decent, the walls newly whitewashed, and profusely hung with little prints, several of them views of Naples, Vesuvius, c. Meanwhile this small place has been, since my arrival, a prey to amaze@ment and curiosity, by reason of a war steamer which has suddenly appeared, and having steamed as far as nearly opposite St. Florent, has gone back and disappeared behind the point on the west side of the gulf, making no sign. But at noon she returns, in company with the squadron of @French ironclads, which in all the fulness of power and ugliness, are ranged opposite the town, and boats soon coming off, these events communicate to St. Florent as much agitation and life as it is perhaps capable of receiving.  portrait of the latter of a much nobler expression of countenance than the ordinary lithograph possesses.-@Valery, i., p. 57. St. Florent, a small town, and the least important in the island if even it can be called a town , has always been witness to the most important political facts. The Gulf of St. Florent has ever been the point of embarkation for new conquerors of Corsica. It was the first Corsican town which, in 1483, gave itself to the Bank of St. George in Genoa.-Galletti, p. 112. Although the Gulf of St. Florent is one of the most vast of Corsica, the town has no port. The safest anchorage of the gulf is at Fornali, and there is only a mole or quay at St. Florent. This town was very recently surrounded by marshes, and its population was decimated by fevers...... The works of drainage undertaken some years ago have lessened these evils, though they are not completely extinct. The commercial importance of St. Florent should not be exaggerated, for the town being separated from the centre of Corsica by a chain of mountains, the lowest part of which is 1,200 metres above the sea, the produce of the interior cannot be economically transported..... In a military point of view the Gulf of St. Florent is of the greatest importance. This town St. Florent , founded in 1440, gave itself to Paul deThermes in 1553, and was recognised by Andrea Doria in 1554. In 1731 Giaffori and Ceccaldi took possession of it in 1762 Paoli took it and in 1794 the French sustained a remarkable siege against the Anglo-Paolists. In 1796 it fell again into the power of the French. The situation of St. Florent said Napoleon I. is one of the finest possible, close to France, and not far from Italy her coasts are safe, commodious, and might receive considerable fleets. I should have made a great and fine town, which should have been .a capital I should have declared it a fortress, and there should have been constantly vessels stationed there. -Gra@ndchamps, pp. 16, 17. PLATE XXXIII.@ It was 2 P.M. before I went out to draw the heat was great, and the environs of St. Florent shadeless. A more compact little gulf can hardly be imagined than this, nor one more tranquilly shut out from the world formerly the capital of the Nebbio district, it can only be approached by sea, or by crossing mountain passes and on realising its position, the old conditions of its existence, when ironclads and high roads were unknown, can easily be understood-days when the Bishops of Nebbio used to read mass sword in hand. And were any one desirous of living a life of great retirement and quiet barring the near and head-splitting sound of church bells , St. Florent might be well recommended as a fit place, especially that its little hotel is so good-always supposing that the winter climate is a pleasant one, about which I have my doubts, as this side of the gulf is not a little exposed to the north-west winds. A feeling of extreme loneliness pervades the neighbourhood of the town extensive shallows teeming with myriads of fish, and wide marshes, com@municate a desolate air to the place, though much of the marshy ground has been drained of late years. The ugly iron ships alone break the spell of solitude which seems to hang over sea and land excepting that below the eastern hills is a hamlet and an ancient church, formerly the Cathedral of Nebbio, which I had intended, but had not time to visit. Of course see rules of destiny, page 169 the only possible spot whence it was practicable to make a drawing of the town and gulf was on a roastingly bare slope of tilled ground, which I contemplated with dread, although preparing to sacrifice myself to an hour's broiling but on arriving there, I found the Suliot had placed my folio and seat high up below a single lentisk or schinos tree of great size, which for the sake of its shade was worth a stiff climb to reach over some rocks -G. meanwhile, who, remembering how Admiral Yelverton at Malta used to take his ironclads to fire at the rock of Silsifla, continually pretends to forbode that the French admiral may suddenly happen to order this big lentisk tree to become the mark for all his squadron to shoot at. No such calamity, however, occurs, and I am able to complete my drawing of a place singularly full of individual character and beauty. See Plate 33. At 5 P.M., returning towards the town, I work again near it the houses of St. Florent are not a la domino-warehouse, but are aged, irregular, pic@turesquely gray, and discoloured, and many beautiful little bits may be gathered on the edges of the tiny city, reflected clearly in the water from which it rises. At the Hotel des Passageurs, lobster-eating and other festivities are being carried out on a large scale by the sailors of the squadron but though the house is quite full, that does not prevent M. Donzella giving me a good dinner of soup and stewed veal, pease, cutlets, and olives, cream-cheese broccio is out of season or does not exist hereabouts , and the Chablis-like wine  parts, as good as the cookery. My host, who is so like a Neapolitan in dialect and manner, that, coupled with the many views of Vesuvius in his rooms, I made sure of his being so, is, on the contrary, so completely a Corsican, that he has never been as far as Calvi, or even out of the Nebbio farther than Île Rousse, of which he says, C'est plus belle que Calvi, mais a Calvi il y a plus de seigneurie-Île Rousse is prettier, but Calvi more '@genteel.' My sleeping-room looks out @on the sea, now a sheet of summer glass, with the line of great ships dark against the last gleaming of the pale western sky. So clean is this house, that for a second time in this journey I shall try the hotel bed instead of my own. The past day has been a thoroughly pleasant one, and now there remain but nine more of Corsican wanderings. May 28.-There is little wisdom in trying new beds if you can avoid doing so this one is perfectly clean, as was that of Luri, but each had its pecu@liarities, arising from some springs or wires of its inner constitution, which led it to make noises of the most surprising and unexpected kind it was impossible to prepare the mind sufficiently for the sudden sounds which occurred even on your moving your head, far more when it was a question of turning round. At Luri a spring in the mattrass was loose, and at times made a most remarkable humming while in the present instance lengthened and mouse-like squeakinesses come from some incoherence of the irons as the invalid says in Wilkie Collins's Woman in White, Take it away, something about it creaks take it away ! and henceforth, therefore, I forsake not the old camp folding-bed. For all that, I must record that a nicer little inn, with more obliging owner and better fare, it would be hard to fall in with, in whatever part of the world you may travel, than the Hotel des Passageurs, at St. Florent. At sunrise the gulf resounds with a reveille of bugles, and a single gun from the eight ironclads the squadron goes to Bastia to-day. At 5.30 A.M. I set off to Île Rousse with Flora and Co. the first part of the day's journey is to wind round and across the sides of Monte Ruva, the spurs of which form the western side of the Gulf of St. Florent, and separate Nebbio from Balagna. We leave on the left the road to Oletta, by the direction of the only human being in sight, an old woman whom Domenico, with scrupulous politeness, addresses as Madame, and then leaving the coast, ascend the hill by what the landlord at St. Florent calls a salituccia, along a broad Route Imperiale. The view of the gulf and the little city are very beautiful from here an extremely simple prospect-St. Florent and the whole of Cap Corse, un@broken by detail, like a single piece of opal, lie reflected in the calm trans@parent bay, and this view, spite of the dazzling opposite sun, claims a halt for drawing. See Plate 34. PLATE  6.15 A.M.-For some way onward the ascent overlooks portions of the inner land of Nebbio-rounded mountainous distances and a good deal of cultivation then, threading a lonely and narrow pass by the side of a ravine thickly clothed with underwood, the road leads along tracts of wild country, where once more cystus and asphodel still in bloom, isolated granite rocks and wild olive, are the characteristics of the scenery, and a feeling that one is in a wild unpeopled part of the world prevails, till at 7 A.M., a landscape of more cheerful character is approached, looking towards the St. Florent gulf, with beautiful views of Cap Corse, beyond slopes of pastures and innu@merable olives down to the sea. This scenery, charming in colour and varied in outline, is greatly like that about Girgenti in Sicily, and to get some memorandum of it, a halt is ordered till 7.45. 111 Here and there, though seldom, a wayside house is passed, and for another hour wild maquis and rock are the only ingredients in the landscape, as the road, gradually ascending, skirts a vast and savage hollow or amphitheatre, walled in on the south by lofty bare rocks. This rugged scenery, without culture or inhabitants, continues till about 9 A.M., when the top of the ascent is reached and the views east towards the Nebbio and the long line of Cap Corse are exchanged for a truly magnificent panorama of snowy mountains, the great heights above the Balagna and. the district of Calvi. From this point the road rapidly descends in zig-zags to the foot of the hills which divide Nebbio and Balagna, and in half an hour the small plain through which the stream of the Ostricone112 flows is reached, and here, at 9.30, after passing a few more scattered houses, is the mid-day halt to be made. Neither for horse or man, for landscape or for shade, is this a favourable spot there is a fountain close by, but it is dry a very meagre olive gives but little shelter from the great heat, and even that little is not wanted long, because a colony of ants make the ground below it an undesirable place of repose. On all sides there is a total lack of pretty landscape, and only a few birds give any interest to the locality by their voices, the quit-quit-quit of quails in the corn-field near, the turtle dove's note, and that of the cuckoo. Breakfast, therefore, is, on the whole, uncomfortable, and in half an hour after noon the journey towards Île Rousse is gladly resumed.  and scenery near Île Rousse in Gregorovius the dreadful tragedy relating to Vittoria Pietri, wife of Muzio Malespino, which had occurred so lately as 1849, is told in it-a shocking history, from which it is a relief to turn to the description of the merry children of Isola Rossa dancing in a ring round a fire, and improvising. Amo un presidente Sta in letto senza dente, c., c. -Gregorovius, pp. 258, 261, 266. 112 At Ostriconi it is believed the ancient Rhopicum of Ptolemy stood, at a point where there is still an old tower in ruins, on the left bank of the torrent, and at its mouth there are said to be others. The air of this valley is unhealthy. The torrent of Ostriconi, which takes its source on Mount Tenda, is the boundary between the provinces of Nebbio and Balagna, and between the arrondissements of Bastia and Calvi.-@Galletti, p. 117.  In passing along this northern coast of Corsica, how clearly once more is the history of the island commented on and explained by these distinct natural divisions !-this district of Balagna is as much cut off from Nebbio, as Spain from France, or Switzerland from Italy, by mountain ranges. The road, now comparatively level with good parapets, as, indeed, there have been through all to-day's journey , leads close along the shore, and wonderfully lovely is the pale blue, merging into green of the sea below-moveless, oily-calm lengths of bright sapphire, traced on the space of far dark blue- cobalt, says the practical artist, with pale passages spunged or washed out, or dragged light with a half-wet brush. And after passing increasing cultivation, especially of larger and more numerous olive grounds, and more long points-I had fancied this part of Corsica might be rounded, but there is only the long eastern plain in all this island that is not beset by points-Île Rousse is seen afar off, low down at the very edge of the sea on a slender rocky promontory. Arriving nearer to the town, I send on Flora and C°., and at 2 stop to draw what might well be called Paoliopolis, for the place owes its creation to General Paoli, and hardly existed before 1760.113 See Plate 35. At 3 P.M. I make a drawing on the beach-whence the town, though not in  depth of water, and is defended by a small island against the westerly winds. They talk of erecting a mole to lock it in on every quarter.@-Boswell, p. 17. Île Rousse, a place of merchant and custom-house officials, was commenced in 1758 by Paoli, in spite of the endeavours by sea and land on the part of the Genoese to hinder the work. This pretty little town, built to the sound of cannon, received its name from the islet of reddish rock opposite. Paoli wished to attract the mountain population of this part of the island to the seaboard, in order to take vengeance on Algajola, which was devoted to the cause of the Genoese, and at the same time to destroy the influence of Calvi, equally on their side. It is said that on seeing the first houses being built, Paoli observed, I have planted the gallows on which to hang Calvi. Île Rousse, which counts a population of 1,200, is in effect the outlet for the produce of the Balagna and the export of oil to France is to the amount of a million of francs annually, half of the whole export of Corsica.-@Valery, i., p. 66. The nearer you come to Isola Rossa the more mighty are the mountains they are the romantic peaks of the Balagna, the Corsican promised land, which flows in truth with oil and honey.-Gregorovius. The town of Île Rousse has its name from a neighbouring islet of a reddish colour. This little isle, called formerly l'Île@de l'Or, was the haunt of pirates. When the Genoese became possessors of all Corsica, they fortified this island, and united it to the nearest mainland by means of a jetty, and thus delivered this fine district from the frequent incursions of the barbaresques.@-@Galletti, p. 117. Nothing is more wanted in Corsica than a railway between the ports of Île Rousse, Bastia, and Porto Vecchio, whereby the ports on the coasts may be united by a rapid and easy communication.-Grandchamps, p. 107. The Genoese came with gun-boats to interrupt the work, but the walls rose amidst the rain of their shot, and Isola Rossa is now a place of 1,860 inhabitants, and the important port and emporium of the oil-raising Balagna.-Gregorovius, p. 257. There is the house where Paoli was surprised when the celebrated Dumouriez had contrived a plot against him and here Theodore of Neuhoff, King of the Corsicans, landed for the last time, and put to sea again when his dream of royalty was over.-Gregorovius, p. 260. Île Rousse is the natural outlet of Balagna.@ This town, founded by Paoli, has increased remark@ably in a short time new houses have been built there, and foreign capital has been attracted the port, which offered good anchorage, has been improved, and at present it is the most convenient on the west coast. Trade, both in imports and exports, augments yearly, an increase explained by the situation  any beauty of detail, combines on the whole very pic@turesquely with its rocky harbour, and the foreground of masses of black granite scattered on the white sandy beach the duties of the day, also, are varied by a pleasant bathe, for it is not often that hard white sand, gleaming below clear and not too deep water, presents so favourable an opportunity to any one who is ignorant of swimming. Then onward to the  possesses several large and substantial houses, especially some in the outskirts, near a Piazza where there are some fountains-one orna@mented with a bust of Paoli. There is a colonnade-bordered market-place, and a broad, well-paved street, and altogether the little town shows more activity and importance than I had been aware existed in Balagna, except in Calvi. The country immediately in the neighbourhood is full of olive slopes- -realms of upland prodigal of oil, And hoary to the wind -and on the hills inland are many villages, Monticelli, Santa Reparata, c., giving much life to the landscape, which is completed by a glorious serrated snow-topped mountain range far above all. A painter lingering some time at Île Rousse would find that many delightful excursions might be made to the hills on the south of it, but none such are practicable for me, the limited time now at my disposal obliging me to adhere to the coast road. So I ramble through the town and on to the pier, beyond which there are works in progress connected with a small fort-for there is a little garrison at Île Rousse-but finding no work to do in the city of Pasquale Paoli, I go to the Hotel De Giovanni, to which the landlord at St. Florent had directed me. The inn is large, and in an airy situation, and the rooms are clean, though not as much so as at the last place as for the people, it is the same thing every@where-simple in manner and thoroughly obliging anxious to please the traveller, yet free from compliment and servility. At 6.30 dinner was ready, served by a brisk damsel of no pretensions  The French influence in Corsica would be far greater if an easy means of communication existed between this town and the east coast, but, unfortunately, the road from Île Rousse to Corte and to Bastia climbs the transversal chain at the Col S. Colombano, 730 metres above the sea. This may be avoided by a road, as before named, by the valley of Ostriconi and the Col de Pietralba, not more than 470 metres. This is the lowest point of all the transverse range of mountains, and the only one by which it is possible to establish easy and rapid communication between Île Rousse and the east coast, that is to say, between France, the centre of Corsica, and southern Italy.-Grandchamps, pp. 18, 19. In 1760 only a tower built by the Genoese existed at the Port of Île Rousse in 1810, a small mole of embarcation, twenty-seven metres long, and later of fifty metres, was constructed. For details @respecting the possibility of making a larger port, and one which would be the best for the extension of commerce into France, and for others concerning a proposed railway from Île Rousse, by the sea, to the mouth of the Ostriconi, up the valley of the Ostriconi, as far as the Col or Bocca Santa Maria 470 metres above the sea, where a tunnel 1,200 metres long would reduce that height 70 metres , and then descend to Ponte@-@alla@-@Leccia by the left bank of the Golo, and thence by the gorges of the Golo to its outlet on the eastern coast there, dividing, it would go along the plain, north to Bastia, and south to Porto Vecchio, see Grandchamps, pp. 86,  but with a look of espièglerie and intelligence always she held a flower in her mouth at the beginning of dinner it was a rose, latterly a pink. She waited also at a table where seven or eight continentals -employés-were dining. The dinner was good and some Balagna cherries and cheese excellent. Later, when the damsel@-@who greatly resembled a lady on a Ja@panese teacup-brought some coffee, I said, May I venture to ask, without offence, why you continually carry a flower in your mouth ? And, retorted the Japanese, may I venture to ask, without offence, why you, a stranger, inquire about matters which are not your affairs, but mine ? Perdoni, said I, do not be angry I only had an idea that there might be a meaning in your doing so. Quoth she, Che cosa potrebbe mai significare ?-what could it possibly mean ? I thought, said I, humbly, it might mean you were not to be spoken to for how, with a flower in your mouth, could you answer ? Whereat the Corsican gravity gave way, and the hotel resounded with long peals of laughter from the Japanese. May 29, 5.30 A.M.-Flora and C@o. are ready to start from the Hotel De Giovanni, which will be remem@bered as very comfortable not only, however, are the high mountains clouded, but some rain falls, and a wet day is threatened. Île Rousse has a look of being larger than it need be for its population-@its  grass-grown in parts, and the houses on its outskirts are scattered about rather vaguely yet it is said to be a flourishing and increasing place. The outlines of the hills in its neighbourhood are varied and pleasing, while the long lines of Cap Corse and the hills forming the western side of the Gulf of St. Florent, shut in the sea like a lake and did it possess any buildings of a shapely form, a pretty picture might be made of Île Rousse from the high ground to the west of it. The road to Calvi runs coastwise along hill sides entirely covered with corn and olives-these last are in thick groves, large and full trees loaded with bloom, down to the sea-shore great masses of gray granite cropping out of the soil here and there. The scenery is full of beauty, even on a day so gloomy as this continues to be Corbara and other villages are seen on the hills and when the clouds are propitious, snow peeps out on the higher mountains everywhere there is a richness of cultivation exceptional in Corsica. 114 About the seventh kilomètre from Île Rousse is a small bay, on the shore of which stands a town or village almost all in ruins fallen and falling walls, and roofless houses, make the few buildings which are still habitable-perhaps a score or two in number-more melancholy by contrast. This sad place, which has an air of having seen better days, is indeed no other than Alga@yola, 115 a town of importance under the rule of the Genoese, but deserted  inhabitants. In the house of M. Pietri, whose first wife is grand@daughter of Clement Paoli, is a new portrait of the General Pasquale Paoli. M. Pietri also possesses the seal of that illustrious man, like a pound weight, made of iron, c. Above Monticello, at Capo Spinello, are the slight remains of the fortress built by Guidice, of the noble Corsican family Cinarca, brought up in Italy, and named Governor of the island by the Pisans in 1280, a man of lofty character, just, conscientious, and indefatigable. After having for fifty years held his ground against the Genoese, he was, when old and blind, betrayed into a nocturnal ambush. He died at ninety-one in the prison of Malapaga at Genoa. The few remains of the fort of Guidice attest the ravages of the Genoese, who destroyed the greater part of the castles of Corsica, in order to efface its memories and its nationality. It is easy to understand the hatred such a rule must have excited, and how, after more than sixty years, the rame of Genoese is still considered an injury by the people.-@Valery, i., p. 74. On the territory of Corbara, at a spot called Bareale, the coast is strewn with blocks of a superb granite called, but wrongly, of Algayola, of which I have seen the first utilisation for the sub-basement of the column in the Place Vendome. Bareale also supplies the beautiful jasper with the green marble of Corsica, so admired in the chapel of the Medicis of Florence. The working of this beautiful white monumental granite on the edge of the sea, which seems to invite its transport, might be immensely developed, and might give rise to a colony of workmen, as at Carrara, who might create a lucrative and permanent industry for Corsica.@-@Valery, i., p. 69. From Corbara, one of the prettiest villages of Corsica, came the Doctor Daniele, called to France by Louis XIII., to whom he became physician. M. Valery gives a list of eminent medical men, natives of Corsica-Salicetti, Sisco, Franceschi, and Préla, the learned Jean de Vico, physician of Julius II., and the Doctors Antomarchi which, he says, seems to prove that the art of curing is natural to the Corsicans. Some also of the most celebrated men of the island have studied medicine, such as Giafferi, and Hyacinthe Paoli, as well as the learned historian Limperani of Orezza, Bernardin Cristini, c.-@Valery, i., p. 68. Monticello, the scene of the tragic history mentioned in Gregorovius, is named in Galletti, p. 119. 115 Algajola is almost abandoned since the foundation of lie Rousse. Its appearance is singularly melancholy, and one seems to be in a town taken by assault, and from which the inhabitants have disappeared. In the middle of these ruins there exists, over the chief altar of the Church of St. George,  century, owing chiefly to the rise of Île Rousse, and to the fact that Calvi, during the wars of the patriot party, was a better place of refuge. Rain prevented my making as complete a drawing as I could have wished of the now forlorn but picturesque condition of Algayola. Fortunately for me, after some heavy showers, the weather became brilliant once more, in good time to array in its fullest beauty what is doubtless one of the finest portions of Corsican scenery, and not a little Sicilian in character, the drive from the ruined and dreary Algayola to Calvi, the long cape and light-house near which are now visible. A succession of pictures of exquisite interest delights the eye as the road passes along new basins or crescents at the foot of high hills, bare at their tops, then terraced into corn@fields all the way down from those rocky heights to the shore the grain all ripe, and the fields full of busy reapers, dotted with grand old olive trees, standing, not in continuous groves, but singly, or in massive and picturesque groups, some of the trees being quite the finest I have seen in the island.11 to be the best picture in Corsica.@-@Valery, i.@ p. 71. Speaking of the industrious habits of the Corsican fishermen in general, M. Valery excepts those of the pescatori of Algajola, where, M. De Beaumont reports, in a town on the sea-shore, and in his own former sub-prefecture of Calvi, there is not a single fisherman, and the inhabitants wait, with their arms folded, until a Neapolitan boat arrives to fish along their own coast, and sell them their own fish. Nevertheless, the sea around the island has been thought more productive of fish than any part of the Mediterranean.@-@Valery, i., p. 33. The road from Isola Rossa to Calvi leads along the coast all the way. On the mountains are seen many ruins of places destroyed by the Saracens, and above Monticello are the ruins of a castle of the celebrated Guidice della Rocca, the Pisa lieutenant..... I came first through Algayola, an old place by the sea, now quite decayed, and numbering scarcely 200 inhabitants. Many houses stand in ruins and uninhabited,..... for they have been allowed to stand as ruins till the present day in the state that the war reduced them to sixty years ago, a sad and palpable witness of the condition of Corsica. Even the inhabited houses are like blackened ruins..... In the time of the Genoese, Algayola was the central place of the Balagna.-Gregorovius, p. 268. Algajola, anciently the chief place of civil government in the Balagna, and situated on one of the most healthy points of the island seaboard, is a little town now containing less than 200 inhabitants, and, in our day, only presents a heap of ruins to the traveller's search thus realising the prediction of General Paoli when he founded the Île Rousse, I am going to plant the gallows for Calvi and Algajola. Into the latter place he had not been able to force an entrance, as it was surrounded by walls and bastions, and well defended by the Genoese. At present the name of Algajola, which has played so important a part in the political vicissitudes of the island, is only known in Corsica by an old proverb still used in our villages, when any one wishes to describe a person given to laziness and love of dolce far niente. Pare de@ quattro dell'@Algajola-he is like the four of Algajola. These were the members of the four principal families of the place, who, wrapped in their cloaks, used to sit at the gate of their city gossiping on all the news of the day with the peasants who passed to and fro.-Galletti, p. 121. 116 The provinces of Balagna and Nebbio, which are very rich, and afford an agreeable prospect, particularly Balagna, which may be called the garden of Corsica, being highly favoured by nature, and having also had in a superior degree the advantages of cultivation.-@Boswell, p. 25. The appearance of the district of the Balagna, with its vegetation of olive, orange, and pomegranate, has a charming effect as one quits the harsh mountains of Nebbio. Its inhabitants know well how to cultivate their lands, nor do they call to their aid, as do the rest of their countrymen, the sober and laborious Lucchesi, who bear away the gold of Corsica.@-@Valery, i., p. 65.@.@.@. The valley of the. Balagna is called the garden of Corsica. It is enclosed by mountains, whose tops reach the clouds, snow@y peaks like the @Tolo and the mighty Grosso, and eminences of  on a ruined castle crowns one of the highest points, as you continue to drive through this beautiful scenery, with the wide sea ever on your right hand, until after leaving the coast by an ascent of short duration, the road comes suddenly in full view of the bay of Calvi, that town and citadel on its farther side shining out like a gem above the purple water, by the side of a plain running up to the foot of magnificent mountain ranges, some of them the highest in Corsica. Assuredly the Genoese were wise to cling so long and so fondly to this, as it seems to me, fairest part of the island. Perhaps even the landscape becomes still finer as you turn the sharp corner of the high point you have been ascending about the tenth kilomètre from Calvi , and come down towards the large valleys, which from the coast stretch away to Calenzana and the base of Monte Cinto and the great central Corsican Alps. Few more striking and beautiful places can be seen than Lumio,117 close below which the road now runs-a large village with white and  a landscape painter. On the mountain sides are very numerous hamlets@.... all former abodes of the nobility and caporali, and full of reminiscences of old times. The Tuscan Marquises of Malaspina, who were natives of Massa and the marches of Lunigiano, ruled here of old..... The Malaspinas built the village of Speloncato, in the Balagna.-Gregorovius, p. 313. The Balagna, separated from the Nebbio by the secondary ramifications of the chain of the Tenda, is the richest province of Corsica it includes the valleys of Ostriconi, Regino, Aregno, Fium-Secco, and Marsolino. The slopes of the Ostriconi, the Regino, and Aregno are covered with magnificent olives, and everywhere picturesque villages, well-built houses, and well-cultivated land denote the ease and love of labour of the inhabitants.-Grandcha@mps, p. 18. The Corsican olive tree, according to the illustrious Humboldt, is, more than any other, capable of resisting the intemperance of the elements as, for instance, during the memorable and terrible winter of 1709, when nearly all the olive trees of the south of France were destroyed, those of Corsica did not suffer.-@Valery, i., p. 75. It is asserted says Gregorovius of the Balagna olive trees that there is no place in Italy where the olive tree reaches such huge dimensions as in the Balagna. Its growth, its fulness of branches, and the abundance of its fruit, are perfectly astonishing.@.@.@. There are many kinds of olives in the Balagna, the Sabinacci, Saraceni, and Genovesi, so called according to their pedigree, like noble families of Signori. The third kind is most frequent it is ascribed to the Genoese, who, under the rule of Agostino Doria, compelled the Corsicans to plant the olive abundantly.@... At what period the olive was generally introduced into Corsica I cannot say. In Seneca's epigram, complaint is made that the gift of Pallas is not to be found in the island nevertheless, it seems to me scarcely credible that the olive was not cultivated in Corsica before Seneca's time. The Corsican olive trees enjoy the reputation of defying the changes of the seasons more boldly than all others in the world, a praise which the great Humboldt has bestowed upon them.@.@.@. When the olives begin to fall off they are collected. Twenty pounds of olives yield five pounds of clear oil, which is put into large stone jugs, in which it stands till the month of May the trees produce abundantly every third year. The birds come and scatter the olive seeds, and thus the island is covered with wild olive bushes, growing green and rank over hill and dale, and only waiting for improvement by cultivation.@... At the present day the richest oil-lands of Corsica are the Balagna, the Nebbio, and the region of Bonifacio.-Gregorovius, p. 316. 117 Lumio, finely placed, produces a fine rock crystal, orange gardens, and formidable hedges of cactus.-@Valery, i., p. 80. Lumio possesses many orange orchards, and an astonishing number of cactus hedges, which I only found besides in Ajaccio in such profusion. The cactus here grows to the size of a tree. The view from the hills of Lumio, down to the valley and gulf of Calvi, is beautiful. Calvi, which has about 25,000 inhabitants, divided among six cantons and thirty-four communes, comprises nearly the whole north-western part of the island. Of the mountains and coast-land, not the half is cultivated, for the large coast-strip of Aleria is utterly waste, and only the Balagna is in good cultivation, and the most numerously  flat-topped houses, very like those of Bethlehem or other places in Palestine, except in their wanting domes-and buried among olive-trees such as I have hardly seen out of Corfù. Below Lumio are groves of cork and phyllarea, cactus in great quantity, and an inexhaustibly profuse vegetation, of which it is difficult to give an idea, filling up every corner and slope not already cultivated, till lower down is a spread of ripe and broad corn-fields, with here and there a flat-topped house, just like those in the country of Malta round Valetta, or sometimes surrounded by a walled court-yard, resembling those round road-side khans in Albania. 10.30 A.M.@-@From the bottom of the hill-I had sent on Flora and Co. to wait till I had done drawing at Lumio-the drive is less interesting. The road crosses the Calenzana river, a broad torrent, and later a still larger river bed, half lost in the tract of marshy ground near the sea, which, whether or not its creation was the direct result of the imprudent bishop's conduct, is very pernicious to the atmosphere of his diocese of Calvi. 118 The approach to that Genoese stronghold is very fine the rock on which the citadel stands, with the chief part of the city, and the cathedral, together with a church and a line of houses, close to the edge of the sea, are all reflected in the bay, and at a distance the whole has an imposing effect. 119 On approaching nearer, however, you soon perceive that the present condition of Calvi is nowise in harmony  had to capitulate, in the year 1794, after the heroic defence of Calvi against the English, it was one of the articles of capitulation, that the old inscription above the gate should not be touched. Faithfully has the condition been observed, as may be read above the gate.-Gregorovius, p. 271. 118 The neighbouring lagoon of Calvi-which it would be an important benefit to the town to drain-is called the Vigna del Vescovo the Bishop's vineyard , and certain remains found about and even in the lagoon, prove that formerly the vine was really grown there. A popular tradition relates that once, amid the gaieties of the vintage, the Bishop of Sagona, then resident at Calvi, was led astray by the fascinations of a young girl, who teased the prelate to place the episcopal ring on her finger but at the moment when the reverend man gave way to her entreaty, the ring rolled away and was found no more. On the next morning the bishop returned to search for the ring, but the vineyard had sunk in the earth, and in its place was the lagoon.-@Valery, i., p. 89. 119 Calvi is the strongest place in the island its safe gulf is the nearest part of the Corsican coast to France, and but eight hours from Antibes. Built on a rock, although the capital of the Balagna, it is situated in its least cheerful part.@-@Valery, i., p. 82. M. Valery, who was ill lodged in an inn at Calvi, and who regrets the hospitality so constantly offered him in the other parts of the island, says, funnily, To effect any reform in the detestable and infrequent inns of Corsica it must be visited by the English, and even they will have enough to do. But as in Italy their efforts have had success, so, too, here they may chalk their complaints on all the walls of the rooms, inscribe their names even in the landlord's own book with anathemas against his hotel, and become, by their shouting, their noisy scenes, and their multitude of followers, the terror of the establishment. -Valery, i., p. 82. Calvi, founded by Giovaniello in the thirteenth century, became Genoese in 1278. It was the first place in Corsica which fell into the power of Alfonso of Arragon. Unsuccessfully attacked by De Thermes in 1553, it stood three sieges in 1555 against Des Ursins and Dragut, and to perpetuate the memory of its defence the Genoese Senate caused the inscription, still existing, Civitas Calvi semper fidelis, to be engraved over the principal gate of the city. Paoli, unable to become master of Calvi, founded Île Rousse. In 1794 Admiral Hood took Fort Morello, which was held by General Casa@bianca, and only capitulated at the last extremity. The town of Calvi, placed at the southern extremity of the Balagna, not far from the mouth of the  above it, and you are struck with the thinly-peopled village-like nature of the place, and the feeling of loneliness haunting the formidable heights and forts, whose history is concluded, and is only that of the past for the beauty of Calvi is that of decay, and its prosperity is departed, though few places are finer in situation, or would make a more beautiful picture. 11 A.M.-I go to the Hotel de la Marina, the best here it stands on the sea side of the single street leading up to the citadel. The civil, but rather mournful proprietors, made their tolerably clean and very spacious rooms pleasant by that courtesy and active wish to oblige so universally met with@-a repetition monotonous, but just and necessary-throughout Corsica. A very good breakfast of fresh fish, lobster, and maccaroni, is served before noon, although the landlord apologises for the difficulty of getting what is wanted for travellers who come without warning few people, indeed, come to this out-of-the-way place-which is a cul de sac, and beyond it no road leads-except those on business connected with Government, for Calvi still enjoys the honour of being a Sous-prefecture. This morning's drive has been one of great interest, and full of novelty the Balagna has always had the reputation of being the garden of Corsica, and, indeed, the completely cultivated look of this district contrasts greatly with that of other parts of the island. The upper Balagna, through which I must pass to-morrow on my way back to Corte, is said to be even more remarkable for beauty, and Miss C. describes it, in some notes she has sent me, as one long succession of pictures. Of the road through it, valley of the Fiumesecco, has seen its commerce decay in proportion to the increase of that of Île Rousse. Surrounded by uncultivated plains and incompletely drained marshes, Calvi withers from day to day.@.@.@. To restore Calvi to its primitive affluence, the marshes which surround it must be drained, its port improved, and the road along the western shore between Ajaccio and Calvi terminated. @-Grandchamps, p. 21. Calvi has greatly decayed since the foundation of Île Rousse, and its population diminishes daily. Whenever the vast and deserted coasts of Filosorma and Galeria are peopled and cultivated, the town of Calvi may possibly become the point of export for the produce of those new colonies, and take a place among commercial towns.-Galletti, p. 124. If the question of the birth of Columbus did not appear settled by the passage in the sublime and affecting will of that great man, which says born at Genoa en Genova , the pretensions of Calvi would be specious enough. It was a Genoese colony a family still existing there is named Colombo the papers relating to that family were carried off, they say, by the Genoese Commissioners, who also are said to have changed the name of a street called Colombo into del filo and, lastly, some inhabitants of Corsica were the first to embark for the new world.@-@Valery, i., p. 88. Only on one point are Genoa and the ever-faithful Calvi at odds. The Calvesi maintain that Columbus was born at Calvi that his family, though undoubtedly Genoese, had long ago settled there.... They assert that Genoa took possession of the family registers of the Colombos of Calvi, and re-baptised one of the streets of the town, called Colombo Street, as the street del filo. I find also a record that the inhabitants of Calvi were the first Corsicans who sailed to America, and I was told that the name Colombo still exists in Calvi.@-@Gregorovius, p. 271. @There exists at Calvi, from time immemorial, a street called Colombo, and the inhabitants of that town believe they have certain proofs that Christopher Columbus was born at Calvi, in a house of the street which bears his name.-Galletti, p.  Orsoni, the landlord of the Hotel de la Marina, who is very intel@ligent and communicative, gives me in@formation which is valuable, as Domenico does not know the distances. From Lumio ten kilomètres from here to Muro, the half-way halt for the day's journey, are twelve kilomètres, and beyond that twenty-two more to Belgodére at the latter place he names the locanda of a Madame Saetta as the only lodging he knows of. From Bel@godere to Ponte della Leccia are thirty-six kilomètres, and on to Corte twenty-four more-a longer journey than that of to-morrow, but, excepting an hour or two of ascent from Belgodere to Sta. Columbana, the whole is down hill by all which it is clear that I can carry out my plans pretty exactly, provided there be no delay at the broken bridge over the Asco. M. Orsoni tells me that year by year this city-Calvi@-@becomes more deserted even the villagers from places close by do not resort to it, as they are more sure to dispose of their produce either by exchange, or for money, at Île Rousse, and flock thither accordingly. CALVI. After noon it rained pretty heavily until between 3 and 4, when I was able to make drawings of the grand and picturesque fortress town from the rocks above it from immediately behind the town the noble mountain-range beyond the bay forms a magnificent background, and all the scene is characterised by a wild and lonely splendour that is extremely impressive-earth and sea, once, in the days of repub@lican Genoa, so crowded and noisy, now by comparison so desolate and tenantless. The citadel@-@its walls of an even pallid gray tone of colour-stands beautifully forward in vivid light from the screen of mountains,  now almost black under piles of thunder-cloud, and I doubt if many finer subjects of the sort can be seen. See Plate 36. Later, I draw on the opposite side of the town until warned off by the chill from stagnant ditches and low frog-frequented pools below flourishing tamarisk, when I go up to the citadel the street leading to it is cleanly kept and well paved, and had it not been so late in the day I could well have liked to see the upper part of the city, beyond the gate over which the celebrated inscription- CIVITAS CALVI SEMPER FIDELIS- still remains. I made little progress up the steep narrow lanes between the fortress walls, for the heat of the day and climbing about the rocks had pretty well tired me, and I soon returned to the hotel, the sounds of a pianoforte and the cry of a peacock being-for I saw no living creature-my only memories connected with life in upper Calvi. 120  interesting of Corsican villages, and which, as well as the portion of the west coast from Calvi to Porto, I regret not to see.-E. L. Calenzana, one of the most populous of the smaller towns in Corsica, with nearly 2,000 inhabi@tants, is worth visiting from Calvi. Instead of being on an inaccessible height, as are many villages of the island, Calenzana stands in a fresh and pretty valley, and has a glimpse of the sea. I visited the cemetery of the Germans Campo Santo de' Tedeschi , where the Corsicans defeated the German auxiliaries of the Genoese under the Austrian general Wactendock. The campaign of the Germans began on August 10, 1731, and lasted eighteen months, and in it they lost more than 3,000 men. At one period the inhabitants of Calenzana, who had but a few score pistols, threw their hives at the heads of the assailants, and this charge of bees threw the enemy's army into confusion, and contributed to the victory of the Corsicans. The scene of that frightful carnage is a verdant and fertile field, and every year, after Good Friday, the clergy visit it, and sprinkle with holy water the earth where the bones of the strangers lie..... Near Calenzana, in the midst of some fields, is the Oratory of S. Restituta, spoken of by Filippini-one of the most ancient and venerated sanctuaries of Corsica, most probably of Pisan times, but unhappily it has been modernised. The little church of S. Pierre-a singular building-though also restored, is of the date of the Pisans. The exploit of the Calenzana bees gives me an occasion of defending the honey of Corsica against three great poets of antiquity, Virgil, Horace, and Ovid, who reproach it for its bitterness. The bitter taste proceeds from the flowers of myrtle, box, lentisk, arbutus, and laurel, on which the bees feed, and prevails during autumn only, for the honey made in the spring is on the contrary very sweet and agreeable, and particularly wholesome. The ancients esteemed the wax of Corsica very highly, and two facts recorded by T. Livius prove the activity of its bees-a first tribute of 100,000 lbs. of wax was paid to the Romans to buy peace and a second was paid two years later, of 200,000 lbs. -@Valery, i., p. 92. There is a vast quantity of honey produced in Corsica, for the island has from the earliest times been remarkable for its swarms of bees..... Many people think the bitterness which is in the Corsican honey very agreeable.-Boswell, pp. 48, 49. Calenzana is the most important of the villages named Lumio, Monte Maggiore, c. , and is one of the most populous of the island it is placed in a fertile and well-cultivated plain its streets are paved, c.-Galletti, p. 122. Speaking of the defeat of the Imperialists-when of the German auxiliaries sold to the Genoese by the Emperor Charles VI. 500 were left dead on February 2nd, 1732-Gregorovius adds, The Corsicans buried the foreigners, who had come into their country to fight against liberty, on the beautiful hill-side between Calvi and Calenzana. On foreign but heroic soil rest the bones ofo is strange how the proprietors of these inns, who appear to have no regular customers, are able to provide so well as they do for chance comers. Yet the dinner at the Hotel de la Marina admitted of no complaint, for there was good soup, preceding a dish of lamprey, followed by boiled meat and potatoes, steaks, and a lobster salad, a pudding, cheese, and cherries. Late in the evening the storm clouds pass away, and the mountains on the other side of the bay become clear they are very majestic, though more wall-like and less interesting than when partly hidden by mysterious cloud.  to the present day, the priests come from Calenzana to these graves of their foes-the ' Campo Santo de' Tedeschi,' as the field is called by the people-to besprinkle with holy water the spot where the poor hirelings fell..... It seemed to me as if I, who was one of the few Germans who have stood upon the hirelings' graves at Calenzana, and perhaps the only one who thought of them, was bound to thank the noble nation of the Corsicans, in the name of Germany, for this magnanimous and humane fellow feeling. And I dedicate the following inscription to my countrymen - EPITAPH ON THE 500 GERMAN MERCENARIES OF CALENZANA. Five hundred wretched hirelings here we came, To Genoa by our own Emperor sold, The freedom of the Corsicans to slay For the offence we lie here in our blood, And do sad penance in a foreign grave. Not guilty call us, but for pity meet The foeman covers us with mercy o'er Revile not, wanderer, that dark age's sons Ye living shall make good our ignominy sore. -Gregorovius, p. 276. I took to the sea again at Calvi, in order to go to the tower of La Girolata and to La Piana,@.@.@... The coast of Galeria is now wholly uncultivated.@.@.@. The little port is not a bad one, and this is one of the many points in Corsica which ought to engage the attention of Government and attract capitalists. It was in the gulf of Girolata that John Doria, by an exploit worthy of his uncle the great Doria, whose galleys he commanded, fought with and took prisoner the terrible Corsair Dragut, who had made such frequent and terrible incursions in Corsica. As he, with all his crew, were being put in chains, Lavalette, afterwards Grand Master of Malta, said to him, Señor Dragut, usanza di guerra. Mudanza di fortuna, replied-the Mussulman, who had formerly seen Lavalette one of his own slaves.-@Valery, i., p. 95. At the end of the gulfs of Girolata and Porto are still seen some huts inhabited by cultivators or shepherds these hamlets are called Curzo, Pertinello, c., all built partly on the ruins of old villages devastated and burned by the Genoese. All this district, mostly uncultivated and wild, is included in the names of Galeria and Filosorma, and it is also called La Balagna Deserta.-Galletti, p. 130. Formerly all this part of Corsica was peopled by a race of peasants of warlike and restless pro@clivities, and the Genoese Government determined on dispersing the whole population by burning their' houses and destroying their habitations. All these ancient villages formed two pièves, or cantons, Ermito and Sia. In the time of the historian Filippini there only existed the single village, Luzzopes, belonging to the old piève of Ermito but later this also shared the same fate as that of the others.-Galletti, p. 128. The Basins, between Calvi and Ajaccio, ot the Fango, of the Porto, and the Liamone, will be utilised by the working out of the forests which crown their heights, and that of the Fango opening to the gulf of Galeria, will become one of the richest and most fertile of the island. @The finest forests of Corsica would be available by the gulfs of Porto and Ajaccio. These valleys, at present wild and uncultivated, would be converted into lands of admirable fertility. Already the Greek colony of Carghésé has shown, on the lands given to them between Paomia and Sagona, what industry can effect.-Gra@ndcha@mps, pp. 22, 23. Port of Galeria, at the mouth of the river Fango, not safe. No port in the gulfs of Porto and Girolata. Port of Sagona little frequented, and not good at present.-See Grandchamps, pp. 89, 90.  Calvi-Its Grand Position and Mournful Decay-Sadness of Corsican Singing-The Road along the Upper Balagna-Extreme Richness and Beauty of Scenery-Claude-like Landscapes-Cheer@fulness of the Valleys, and profuse Vegetation-Lavatoggio and other Villages-Views of Cap Corso from Muro of Balagna-Pretty Churches and Architecture-Numerous Hamlets-Approach to Belgodere, and difficulty of finding a Hotel there-Position of the Village-Friendliness of M. Malaspina, Maire of Belgodére-His Hospitable House and pleasant Family-Leave the Maire's House-Change of Scenery-Descent to the Valley of the Asco-The Broken Bridges-Village of Ponte della Leccia its very indifferent Accommodation and unlively Appearance@-Regret at not being able to visit Morosaglia, the Birthplace of General Paoli-Return to Corte-Difference between the Inns of the Country and of the Towns of Corsica. May 30, 4 A.M.@-@A fine day is presaged by the clear line of mountain standing out, purple and dark, with silver-snow outline against the sky the good people of the Hotel de la Marina, whose charges are as moderate as their fare is good, make no difficulty in getting coffee for me by sunrise, and thus I can obtain some more memoranda of this Ultima Thule of Corsica before starting. The stately mournfulness of the forsaken Calvi cannot easily be forgotten by a painter who has seen it but, however good for the pencil, I cannot suppose it, from its unsheltered position, and from its marshy vicinities, pleasant as a residence, at any rate in summer. At 5.30 Flora and Co. pick me up, and we proceed her master, Domenico, whistling, in harmony with the scenery, a dismal minor air. Soon, the Bishop's vineyard and the unhealthy flat ground are left behind by the fast trotting ponies, and then, from the dark olive plantations below the lofty Lumio, I walk up slowly to the top of the hill, unwilling to@ lose anything of the beau@tiful landscape its ascent and summit command. A little way beyond Lumio the road divides, and the lower, by which I came, is exchanged for that to the right, leading to la haute Balagne gradually ascending, it skirts at a great height the large Basin or amphitheatre, the streams from which unite in one running into the sea half way between Île Rousse and the Nebbio hills, near Torre Losari towering granite rocks form a wall to the right while on the left are terraces of corn and olive trees down to the sea, and at intervals a flat-roofed box-like house, à-la-Maltese, stands in the expanse of ripening grain. Turning more inland, and advancing beyond the first spurs of hill-from which you see Corbara, Aregno, and Sant' Antonino on your left-the great semicircle or principal Basin of this beautiful canton is entered, and at once you become aware that those who visit Corsica without going through  remain ignorant of one of its finest divisions. 121 For the next hour and a half's drive as far as Muro, or Murato, at the twenty-first kilomètre from Calvi, and half way thence to Belgodere no description can exaggerate the beauty of this remarkable tract of mountain background and deep valley, which, for richness of foreground, cheerful fertility, and elegance of distance, may compete with most Italian landscapes. On all the more elevated parts of the district, below the topmost wooded heights and snow-capped mountains, stand numerous villages there are thirty-six communes in all , and the form of this great semicircular theatre-at the upper edge of which, as it were, these hamlets stand-allows nearly all of them to be seen at one time most, unlike the generality of Corsican villages, possess extremely picturesque and tall campanili, and often there are detached chapels away from the hamlets, recalling somewhat of the grace of those in Southern Italy. Each of these paesi is placed amid a profusion of wood and garden, and below them the hill-side-entirely cultivated in every part-slopes down more or less steeply from rock, oak, chesnut, olive, fig tree, and cactus, to a small plain that stretches away to the hills of the Nebbio and the sea. Beyond all this the landscape really resembling many of Claude's is finished by the blue sea to the east of Île Rousse, and by the gulf of St. Florent hills, and the long line of Cap Corse delicately traced on the farthest horizon. See Plate 37. There is a life and cheeriness, too, in this canton that well harmonises with the brilliant and plentiful look of the landscape many peasants are met-the women as usual not riding sidewise-on finer mules than I have yet seen in the island and now and then some signori with tall black hats, which, for their shiny newness of look, might have come this very morning straight from Lincoln and Bennett's. And besides every other charm of this beautiful Balagna, there are those of never-failing civility and complete security. Lavatoggio, Cattari, Avápessa-still new villages are passed, and still the wsicinity of habitations, perfect Paradises of the most luxuriant chesnut, walnut, and almond trees, orange and citron orchards, and groves upon groves of olives. An excellent road leads all the way, skirting the base of the circle of mountains, and com@manding at every point most charming distant views over the sea or up to the mountains.-Gregoro@vius, p. 314. The territory of Aregno is plentifully planted with beautiful orange trees their fruit the best in the Balagna.-@Valery, i., p. 79. The Abbé Galletti speaks of the beautiful villages of the Balagna -Muro, Felucto, Nessa, c., the small commune of Avapessa, and others, at the edge of the carriage road from Calvi to Ponte alla Leccia, with many more at a distance from it, but still in the district of Calvi. @The village of Lava@toggio is very cheerful looking, and there are beautiful houses in it, of which the best were built with money gained in America. Cateri, not far from this last-named village, has a church with a cupola of elegant architecture. The oranges of Aregno are reputed among the best in the island.-Galletti, p. 125. In all the many wanderings of a long life no scene I have observed has ever surpassed the exquisite panorama of la haute Balagne, and the Corsicans have a right to be proud of it, and may justly @wish it to be seen. Rich though this beautiful district is, the people are so utterly unaccustomed to strangers that there are no inns, and not even a glass of wine could be procured.@-@Campbell, pp. 69,  delights in fresh and enchanting views here you pause to look at a particularly graceful hamlet with its tall church spire and cluster of brown flat-roofed houses a little way on you are arrested by park-like tracts of oak and corn-fields, dipping down to a broad plain-like flat, edged with Ithome@like hills and promontories, with interlacings of cultivated levels to the shining sea and pale Cap  Muro the mid-day halt is ordained by Flora and Co., and breakfast hastily despatched below a friendly oak, to allow of my walking back three kilomètres in order to make a difficult drawing of the lovely scene near Avapessa, as well as of one or two more near Muro for having now seen one side, or wing, so to speak, of this theatre, I have selected these two out of a multitude of almost equally beautiful subjects. Indeed, a theatre is no bad simile as applied to this great basin, by far the most industriously cultivated, the most cheerful and beautiful in all Corsica-the oak woods and the great cliffs above may represent the galleries and, next in order, the villages, gardens, and terraces stand for tiers of boxes the flat level of olives and corn for the pit the sea and remote hills for the stage and scenery. At 1 Flora and Co. start anew the village of Muro, at the twenty-second kilomètre from Calvi, in a corner of one of the great hollows or recesses formed by a projection of the hill, with its high white campanile and com@binations of arches among its houses, would be an elegant subject even on the Amalfi or Positano coast. The road as usual, excellent is a regular cornice, running at a great height along the mountain side, and generally close to the villages, of which there is a succession-frequently hidden till you are close upon them-peeping out of little bays of foliage as you wind round the buttresses or spurs of the lofty heights. Feliceto and Nessa are the next hamlets Speloncato, Villa, Costa, Occhiatona, are further on, each with its own characteristic beauty, and forming a continuance of mountain-village scenes, such as can hardly be imagined. It is 2.30 when, always by a gradual ascent, Belgodere 122 is approached it is the highest and last of all the communes in this remarkable horse-shoe valley, or rather collection of valleys, which unite in the cultivated level area below. As one looks back to the west from about the thirtieth kilomètre from Bastia, there are perhaps the best views of the whole scene yet it is on a scale so extensive and varied, that it would be very difficult to convey any idea of it with the pencil separately, the hamlets are full of picturesque beauty, but such morsels would not represent the character of the whole landscape while the great size of the mountains, together with the tiny proportions the villages  was founded by one of those Marquises di Male@spina, called from Italy by the Corsicans to govern them during the ninth century. The view of the sea and of the cheerful valley of Fiumeregino, so fertile in olives, justifies the choice of the site.@-@Valery, i., p. 74.  them, would prevent it being successfully transferred to paper as a whole. Along this beautiful drive the great variety of foliage and the evidences of industrious labour are the unvarying characteristics of the scenery-here there are finer oaks, there the chesnut grows more abundantly, now the gardens of cherry trees seem to have no end, or the walnut and fig tree hide the houses and walls, and the olive glimmers lightly against the sky or dapples with thick groves the long level of corn that spreads northward to lines of distance rivalling Grecian landscape anon there are bright streams of water sparkling among the foliage, or broad carpets of fern clothing the sloping hill-sides extreme richness and fertility are everywhere seen nor in all this interesting and beautiful canton have I met with a single beggar. Now that I see Belgodere, which I reach at 3 P.M., I regret not having spent more time in drawing one or two of the villages I passed earlier in the day, for I soon perceive, long before reaching the village, that it contains little or no work for my pencil. Placed quite at the farthest and highest limits of upper Balagna, Belgodere looks down over an immense bird's-eye view of the whole district, wooded and olive-dotted to the shore, but though commanding the most comprehensive prospect of the canton, and one conveying the completest idea of its nature, it is, for all pictorial purposes, nearly im@practicable. Flora and Co. had been sent on before, but Domenico coming to meet me, says that the locanda Saëtta non esiste piu-exists no more, and that two other lodging-houses in Belgodere-a village considerably larger than any hereabouts-are full there is yet a third, which has two rooms, but on going to inspect them I find them by no means tolerable or to be endured and as in this instance my going to a private house can involve no loss of time, since there is nothing to do by way of drawing, I resolve to avail myself of an introductory letter given to me by the Préfet to the Maire, M. Malaspina. From this gentleman a most friendly welcome is forthcoming with Cor@sicans-as in days I well knew of old, with Calabrians and Abruzzese-there is very little compliment and much sincerity. I am only too glad the inns are full, and that you are thus obliged to give me the pleasure of receiving you, although it so happens that my family are away for the day, and there@fore you will not fare particularly well -was said gravely and evidently in earnest, as M. Malaspina took me to his house-one of the largest in the place-and told Flora and Co. where were his stables. The first floor is that resided in by the family, and that above it contains what may be called the guest rooms, and which are so well and handsomely fitted up that one seems in Paris. A more perfectly comfortable little bed-room than that allotted to me could not be found, and-for the day has been hot, and the landscape painter far from well-I am glad to get some rest in it  6 P.M., when I join the Maire and his uncle, both intelligent and gentle@manly men, the latter an elderly person who has passed many years in different parts of Italy. Landscape being my main object in coming to this island, I have through@out avoided all arrangements by which delays to my work could be occasioned, and thus have allowed myself to see but little of the Corsicans, a circumstance I in some senses regret, for whenever I have done so, the making their acquaintance has been invariably a source of pleasure, and on the present occasion particularly so. At 7 dinner was announced, and we descended to the family dining-room, where were the wife of the Maire's son he himself is a widower and his two daughters. I was carried forcibly back to days of Abruzzo travelling by the friendly ways and hospitable anxieties of these amiable people, who live in a plentiful and patriarchal style, and whose dinner, profuse and of excellent quality, gave ample evidence of a well-managed household. They insisted on the Suliot sitting at the same table, spite of his appeal to me, and as the service was limited, I thought it best to acquiesce. What though there were dishes of hare, roast fowl, creams, and many other good things, only my host the Maire partook of animal food, the rest of the family eating snails or vegetables only, as it was a vigil or fast day none the less, however, was their attention to their guest unremitting. Their home@made wine was thoroughly good, but they had two other sorts of Corsican vintage altogether the entertainment was a very pleasant oasis in these days of doubtful Locande, and well it is for me that M. Géry gave me this introduc@tion. Later, accompanied by the three ladies, who were all unaffected and well-bred, we adjourned to the well-furnished drawing-room, to which coffee was brought, and here we talked till 9.30, when this kindly family wished me good-night. These people are quite au fait regarding all European intelligence and their remarks on Turkey, Italy, and other subjects, were free from the preju@dice and violence so frequently met with in proportion to the ignorance of the speakers. Of their own island they are acquainted with the minutest details of both present and past condition, physical or political and the wide interest shown upon European and cosmopolitan topics in so remote a mountain district contrasts curiously with the apathy and blank ignorance noticeable in many similar positions. There is, however, this difference respecting the Cor@sican's broad intelligence regarding contemporary history his own island and people have been for so long a time actors in the principal European events, that it is but natural he should become acquainted with facts which are, so to speak, a part of his own interests, whereas to all other countries they are only outside occurrences. Concerning the bridge of the Asco torrent, M. Jean André Malaspina tells me he has inquired, and finds that though the bridge is not yet  repaired, yet the waters of the river having subsided, a carriage can easily ford them. May 31.-M. le Maire joins me at sunrise with coffee, and at 5.30 A.M. walks with me a good distance out of the village on my way. Provokingly watchful, my host does not allow me the least chance of conveying a tip to the female domestic, a point not easily attained in such houses. I am sorry to take leave of M. Jean Andre Malaspina. Nothing could be kinder than the behaviour of these amiable people, to whom a stranger and servant coming thus all' improviso might well have been somewhat a cause of difficulty. A long and steep ascent leads eastward from Belgodere this, the outpost of Balagna, being the last of its villages but one small hamlet, Palasca and half an hour having been given to making a last drawing of the garden of Corsica, the fertile olive-dotted and yellowing plains soon disappear as the shoulder of the mountain is turned, and the line of blue and green Nebbio hills takes the place of more varied and cheerful scenery. A wild uninha@bited space, contrasting strongly with the gay landscape of yesterday is now looked down on as the road winds upwards, and as at this height the heat of the day is not felt, I walk on to the top of the pass, or Bocca di Santa Colum@bana, reaching it at 8.30 at seven and a half kilomètres from Belgodere, and fifty and a half from Calvi . Little is there to be remarked on the way up-a road to the right towards the top leads to the forest of Tartagine, 123 to Olmi, and other villages to the left, far below, is a wide expanse of sea, and a scrap of Île Rousse and its rocks and all else, excepting some groups of cattle at a fountain, is a breadth of maquis-covered hill-tops. On the southern side of the Bocca di Santa Columbana, the great snowy summits of the highest mountains near Asco and the Niolo are seen, but their bases are cut off by a range of lower hills, among which a very steep descent, which occupies, at a rattling pace, from 8.30 to 10 A.M., leads southward to Corte, mostly by the stony bed of a nearly dry torrent. Ever and anon above the rounded and cystus covered sides of this narrowing gorge peer the jagged and snowy Alp tops, but it is not to be denied that this part of the day's journey possesses very slender interest, and the observer is reduced to the con@templation of perverse stray cattle, who on no account will allow the carriage to pass them, but keep ever foolishly running on for miles ahead of the horses and of the groups, few and far between, of Corsicans on mules, all in black cloth, but all carrying beaming white umbrellas. Here and there this closely shut-in valley is enlivened by a plot of corn, or two or three walnutu among others, the canton of Olmi-Capella, where are olive, ilex, and chesnut trees. @The inhabitants are cattle bleeders, and from this locality come the mules which transport the oils of La Balagna to Castaniccia and to Corte.-Grandchamps, pp. 41, 60, c.  of scarlet-blossomed poppies adds a short-lived gleam of gaiety to the winding dulness of this, the least interesting of any part of Corsica I have seen, and the passage through which is not made more cheerful by Domenico's mournful melody of minor moanings, at which, after long continuance, it is clear that only Flora's extreme sense of dignity and what is right prevents her from howling aloud. It is a relief when the valley opens out and admits some grand mountain distance with groups of ilex and lentisk for foreground, and shortly the  reached which should span the torrent that descends from Monte Padro through the valley below Olmi and Castifao this bridge, though not that of the dreaded Asco river, has also been broken by the heavy winter rains, but a road has been made down to the water-now much lessened, by which Flora and Co. pass over. At 10.30 seventy-two kilomètres from Calvi is the real difficulty here the Asco, which descends from Monte Cinto, and is in the rainy season a formidable torrent, has devastated the whole of the valley, and swept away the greater part of the long bridge built across it. In Corsica, however, these rapid rivers soon exhaust their force, and there is at present but little water in the river bed, so that while @Flora and Co. go down by the temporary road and ford the river, a system of planks placed at a giddy  uncomfortable height on the broken bridge piers, enable the foot-passengers to cross it. Here I remain till II A.M., for there are few views of the kind better worth drawing. Looking up the great valley of Asco, the peaks and crags of what I suppose to be the summits of Monte Traunato and Monte Cinto fill the whole of the picture with an array of giant pinnacles, finer in its way than anything I have seen, except Gebel Serbal from Wady Es Sheikh, near Mount Sinai. A small bridge over a tributary stream remains intact, as if to form a foreground with the trees and lower hills above which the long range of delicately pencilled spires rise so majestically. See Vignette, p. 233 . Two more kilomètres are passed, and Ponte della Leccia124 is reached-a  to see the country of Paoli.-E. L. Boswell's Memorabilia of Pietro Paoli supply ample materials for any modern Plutarch who would contrast his character with that of his rival countryman. Napoleon Buonaparte. Though Paoli's sphere was narrow, so was that of some of the greatest men in Grecian history and, like theirs, it had far-extended relations. The eyes of Europe were upon him Corsica was then its battle-field and the principles of his conduct and administration are of universal application.@-Forester. In the morning I went to the village of Stretta, where the three Paolis were born. One must see this Casa Paoli fully to comprehend the history of the Corsicans, and to admire yet more those extra@ordinary men. It is a wretched, blackened village-hovel, standing on a granite rock. A fresh mountain-spring wells up immediately before the door..... Everything in the house bears the stamp of a peasant's cottage you ascend by a steep wooden staircase to the mean-looking chambers, in which Paoli's wooden table and chair are still standing.-Gregorovius, p. 237. There are several notices of the life of Clement Paoli, the eldest son of Hyacinthus, in Grego@rovius-of his courage and persistence, his enthusiasm and religious zeal. When the Genoese were storming the fortified camp of Furiani with all their force, Clement remained unshaken in the ruins for fifty-six days, though the whole place was battered down. He achieved most brilliant feats of arms also after the French had proceeded to assail the Corsicans, in the year 1768. He gained the glorious battle of Borgo, and he fought desperately at Ponte Nuovo, and when all was lost hastened to rescue his brother, and embarked with him for Tuscany. After a convent life of twenty years at Vallombrosa , he returned to Corsica and died there, in penance and grief. The convent of Morosaglia is perhaps the most venerable monument of Corsican history. It looks like a hoary legend petrified, brown and gloomy, with a dismal high-towering campanile by its side. At all periods of the national history, parliaments were held in this old Franciscan monastery. Pasquale had rooms and offices there, and was often seen in the summer with the monks, who carried the crucifix into battle at the head of the army. His gallant brother Clement was fond of residing in the same convent, and died in one of its cells in 1793. Many details of Paoli's life still live here in the mouths of the people. An aged man told me that, when a boy, he was once going along the road with a schoolfellow, reciting a passage of Virgil, Pasquale Paoli happening to come up behind him, tapped him on the shoulder and continued the passage. Old people have seen him walking beneath these chesnut-trees, in his long green coat with gold stripes-the Corsican colours-and in a vest of brown Corsican cloth.-P. 260. In the year 1790 Napoleon visited the battle-field of the Golo he was then twenty-one years old but he had probably seen it as a boy.-@Gregorovius, pp. 243, 260, c. Valery, p. 300, speaks of the ancient and picturesque castle of Serravalle, in the valley of Deza, and above the village of Piedigriggio, not far from Corte, as one of the most perfect in Corsica. At Morosaglia, the old and vast convent of Franciscans was the summer residence of Paoli during the war of independence. The three or four cells which formed the apartments of Clement Paoli, and where that brave and pious patriot died at an advanced age, at the end of 1793, is now occupied by the gendarmerie.@.@. The convent of Morosaglia has seen many illustrious guests-the Paoli, Pozzo di Borgo, Lucien Buonaparte, and Napoleon, who came there in 1790 to visit Paoli. The house of Paoli at Morosaglia stands on the side of a hill, surrounded by wooded mountains, and  forlorn and dreary-looking cluster of houses by the bridge over the Golo. Here is the junction of the main road from Ajaccio and Corte to Bastia with the Routes Forestières from Calvi and the Balagna, and that from the country about Orezza and so important is this spot considered as a centre of communication in the island, that it has been more than once suggested that a city should be founded here. When those plans are carried out, there may perhaps be better cheer for the passing traveller than he finds at present, for, in spite of the che cosa volete mangiare ?-what will you have to eat ? asked by the apathetic inmates of the sorry and very dirty house doing duty for a wayside hotel, nothing but eggs can be obtained, and those eaten with difficulty, on account of the plague of flies which abounded, owing to the unclean state of the floors. Nor could much be done in the way of drawing at Ponte della Leccia, by reason of the high wind blowing and, indeed, standing as it does in the centre of gorges below high mountains, the thought humbly presents itself that the climate of the future city here may not prove of the most delightful kind. I could make only a few memoranda of the large fine bridge and of the great flocks of black sheep arriving from the plains on their way to the high mountain pastures. Somehow, whether it be that the  it. The house had a little chapel attached. They show the narrow room where Paoli was born. A new stone stairway has been commenced to the upper storey the old one is but a kind of wooden ladder. The old people of the place relate that when Paoli returned from Naples, and found that his brother Clement had placed glass windows to the rooms, he broke them all with his stick, c. The aspect of the house is not changed. M. Valery found at Morosaglio the copy which Alfieri gave of his works to Paoli-the volumes, scattered in the disturbances of 1796, and in the pillage of the convent, having been collected by degrees from the peasantry, who had taken away whatever belonged to the chief, in order to preserve them. M. Polidori now possesses the edition in question. The peasantry of the canton of Rostino, well-to-do and intelligent, and with whom Paoli ever lived on terms of familiarity, have preserved many memories of the distinguished men who were grouped round him. In spite of the reputation of Napoleon, Paoli has always remained the national hero of Corsica. They have not forgotten that the general, who dressed usually in a green cloth dress em@broidered with gold, wore a plain Corsican suit of dark woollen when among them in the mountains.-Valery, i., pp. 295, 296. In the neighbourhood of Ponte alia Leccia, in the valley of the Golo, is the true central point. There the roads to Ajaccio and Bastia, and those from Calvi to Corte and Bastia, cross there would pass all the produce of the continent disembarked at lie Rousse or Bastia destined for Central Corsica, and it is marked as a commercial entrepot. The projected railway from Île Rousse to Bastia and Porto Vecchio, from the Col of Pietralba, the lowest part of the chain dividing Corsica into two slopes, would pass Ponte alia Leccia, and from there by rail the transit would be of less than one hour to Île Rousse or Bastia, three to Porto Vecchio, and two to Corte by the high road. Ponte alia Leccia would then be equally distant from Corte from the three ports which would most influence Corsica-Île Rousse, Bastia, and Porto Vecchio. As a strategic central point also Ponte alia Leccia would be preferable to all others.-Grandchamps. The Ponte a la Leccia is the most central point of the island, as well as one of the most historic scenes of many sanguinary struggles during the wars of independence, c. Ponte a la Leccia is the spot where the roads centre from Calvi, Corte, Ajaccio, Bastia, to the cantons of Lama, Castifao, Morosaglia, Piedicroce, San Lorenzo, Omessa, c. It is in this valley, as beautiful as central, where so many roads of communication end. that M. Grandchamps, chief engineer of roads and bridges, has shown in his work on Corsica, printed in 1855, the necessity of founding a town, which would in a short time become populous and  or from the great contrast of the scenery here to that of the gay and beautiful Balagna, Ponte della Leccia seems to me the gloomiest place I have visited in Corsica. Nor do the few people about it enliven it-a grave and solemn set, all dressed in black velve@teen their dialect, however, is perfectly easy to understand, and their civility unfailing. There are intervals when the most enthusiastic tire of travel, and I confess that the two hours I pass at Ponte della Leccia are of such a kind I am vexed, too, that I have not time to visit Morosaglia and Ponte Nuovo, and other places. And to-day even the head of the travelling establishment, the little dog Flora, in spite of all her valuable and amiable qualities, is out of favour, for in these unclean places she contracts so large an amount of the only vivacity they possess, in the shape of lively insects, that her propinquity is shunned, to avoid contagion, so that when she enters a room she has to be ejected, an indignity she bears with touching meekness and grace. 2.30 P.M.-Off from Ponte della Leccia the road running below distant dark-cragged mountains, where stormy effects and gleams of light on snow and granite create many a grand picture, but none of so distinctive a nature as to induce me to halt to make drawings. Many carts, containing great numbers of Italians-Lucchesi as they call them here, on account of their coming chiefly from that part of Italy-are met. These industrious people are returning to Bastia, to embark for Leghorn. 125 At Ponte Francardo, 126 where the river Golo, which descends here from the Niolo, is left, the road proceeds between a pass of narrow rocks, where a drawing might well have been made had the landscape painter been in an industrious mood but it was otherwise, and Corte-the approach to it from this side see page 173 is assuredly most majestic-was reached by 4.30 P.M., Domenico driving at a great pace, to have as much leisure as possible for the enjoyment of city life. On arriving at the little inn I had stayed at during my first visit, I find that the house is full, and as Domenico recommends another, which he says is Bello e grande, e ci vanno tutti i alti signori-fine and large, and frequented by the greatest persons of Corsica, I go thither, as it is situated at that end of the town from which I have to start to-morrow. Bu iswell-founded reputation of shrinking from work..... I have had proof of the deep-seated contempt they feel for the poor and indus@trious Lucchesi, because they leave their homes and work in the sweat of their brow, to take home some little savings to their families. I often heard the word Lucchese employed as a term of abuse indeed, in the mountains of the interior especially, all field labour is hated, and deemed unworthy of a free man.-Gregorovius. 126 Two enormous rocks very near each other, between which the carriage road passes, give to the place the name of Strette d'Omessa, beyond the bridge of Francardo. Here Sampiero held in check the Genoese troops and all parts hereabouts are full of historical interest.-Galletti, p. 203.s so disgusting is the room I am shown into, that it is not possible to remain in it, and I am at my wits' end, for should I go to the only remaining inn, the Hotel de l'Europe, that also might happen to be full, and then I should have no chance of shelter, for here they would hardly take me in if I returned, and the President, M. Corteggiani, I had already ascertained, was absent from Corte. Fortunately for me, some people at this moment are leaving the hotel, and Giorgio seizing on their room, and giving it a thorough cleaning, it becomes habitable for the few hours I need it. A very tolerable dinner is provided, and the people-let me say what I can of good -are all thoroughly civil. But oh ! for the nice clean little rooms of Evisa, Luri, and St. Florent ! or even of Grosseto, Carghese, or Piana ! From all these villages the proud city of Corte may well take long and deep lessons of cleanliness and decency.@ CHAPTER XII. Leave Corte-Return to Venaco, and Walk to Lugo and Serraggio-Visit to the Moufflon-Mid-day Halt in a Chesnut Wood-Blackbirds and Nightingales-Thunderstorm-Return to Vivario-The Hotel there-The Handsome Daughters of the Landlady-Praises of Miss C.-Fine Weather and Return late to Ponte del Vecchio-Grand Scenery near it-Leave Vivario-Ascent to the@ Forest of Sorba-Another Beautiful Forest-Distant View of the Plains of Fiumorbo-Arrival at Ghisoni-Smartness of its Hotel-Rain and Storm-Gloomy Position of Ghisoni-The Road to the Forest of Marmáno@-@Great Rocks of Kyrie Eleison-The Convict Settlement or Penitencier in the Pine Forest-Doctor Casanova-Early Morning in the Forest of Marmano-The. Col de Verde and Long Descent to Cozzano-Loss of a Horse-shoe, and Delay-Unruly Charcoal Burners -Great Valley of Guitera-Hotel of the Baths-Hot Springs of Guitera-The Pleasant Waitress -Ascent to Zicavo Description of the Villages-Return to Guitera-Beautiful Valleys between Guitera and the Sea-Santa Maria Zicché-Return to Grosseto, Cauro, and Ajaccio-Leave Ajaccio for Nice. June I.-At 5 A.M. I leave Corte-nor can I add with regret-once more. Happy are they for whose noses much suffering is not decreed ! but let those whose sense of smell is delicate avoid Corte until it be blessed with better drainage and cleaner habits. It is a clear morning, and the drive up to the beautiful chesnut woods of Santa Maria di Venaco is delightful. To me this place is one of the most charming as a summer dwelling, of all I have seen in Corsica, excepting parts of Paradise-Balagna besides its high and open position, it has the advan@tages of a plentiful supply of water, and of lovely walks among walnut and chesnut groves in every direction. From here I send on Flora and Co. to Vivario, where to-night must be passed, intending to walk thither, the distance being but fifteen kilomètres. At Lugo, the first village through which the road passes, there are triumphal arches and flags, and other unexpected indications of excitement, with a large inscription of Hommage a Mariani -from all which I learn that the Baron Mariani of Corte is expected here to-day to visit his estates, and a fête has been promoted in consequence. Enquiring after that very exclusive beast, the transitory Moufflon, I hear he is really returned to his mountain home at Serraggio, and on reaching that place at 8 A.M. I proceed to ascertain the dwelling of his Moufflonship.127 L'animale,@ however, as the  muffoli. It resembles a stag, but hath horns like a ram, and a skin uncommonly hard. It is very wild, and lives on the highest mountains, where it can hardly be approached, it is so nimble. It will jump from rock to rock, at the distance of many feet, and, if hard chased to the extremity of a cliff from whence it can reach no other, it will throw itself over, and with surprising agility pitch upon its horns, without receiving any hurt. Yet, when these creatures are taken young, they are very easily tamed. M. de Marboeuf, the French commander at the time I  or thirty youthful Serraggians who collect round me, call him, is even now not easily seen, his master being in the fields, and it was 9 A.M. before his owner came up to the village with the key of his stable, and introduced me to this long-sought-for and respected quadruped. Doubtless he is a magnificent fellow, with a prodigious pair of horns, and he has already lost the savage shyness which marked his disposition when he was first captured at the beginning of last winter, when the snow lay low on the mountains, and he had come down in search of food to the enclosed grounds, into one of which he fell from some rocks, and was captured. After getting such a sketch of the Moufflon as I was able to  by reason of the crowding of intelligent but vexatious villagers, whose natural curiosity I confess was well atoned for by their good-nature  in Staffordshire, the seat of Mr. Anson, c.-Bos@well, p. 41. Mouflon, or Musmon. Found in wild and uncultured parts of Greece, Sardinia, Corsica, and in the deserts of Tartary. Kamschatkans pass the latter part of summer in pursuit of these animals. Sometimes their horns grow two yards long. Ten men can hardly hold one of these Kamschatkan moufflons. Their horns are often so large that foxes shelter themselves in those which fall off by accident. Mouflon or musmon, animal neither sheep nor goat hair, no wool horns like those of a ram some grow to an amazing size, measuring above two yards long general colour of hair, reddish brown found in the uncultivated parts of Greece, Sardinia, Corsica, and Tartary. Form, strong and muscular fearful of mankind, and when old seldom taken alive. Frequents the highest summits of mountains. The old rams have furious battles with each other.-Be@wick's History of Quad@rupeds, p. 64. From a sort of little stable attached to the convent Corte , Captain Mariani drove out several Muffoli.-Benson, p.  and civility, I go onward down the road as far as the tenth kilomètre from Vivario, and there, below huge trees, establish myself for the mid-day halt and breakfast brought from Corte making studies of cystus flowers-are they not a part of all Corsican foreground ?-and writing letters among the shadowed fern, quickly passing the hours away. No fairer resting place can indeed be found than this-the high arching chesnut trees with the far blue eastern hills seen through them turf, fern, and cystus all around, a stream of fresh water gurgling close by and a delightfully sociable blackbird sitting on a rock a little way off, and singing from time to time, for whom the lines- Take warning ! he that will not sing While yon sun prospers in the blue, Shall sing for want, ere leaves are new, Caught in the frozen palms of Spring- were never  Serraggio a Madame had asked me, with loud accents, to visit her hotel for refreshment, but there are many and good reasons for preferring breakfast in the open air to one in the village inns, few of which can be expected to equal those of Evisa and Luri-those, indeed, were rather private lodging-houses than inns at all-here one has fresh air, quiet-excepting the song of blackbirds and nightingales-flowers, and a beautiful prospect while in those sad little houses you have none of these blessings, but on the contrary, are likely to find noise, flies, and dirt. The day becomes clouded, and above the mighty heights of Monte Rotondo, on whose sides I am resting, clouds gather, and low growlings of thunder are heard, preluding, perhaps, the ordinary afternoon storm in these parts. And as all at once a blinding flash of lightning comes simultaneously with a peal of crackling thunder, as if fifty pistols had been fired off close to one's ear, warning me that the vicinity of tall chesnut-trees is undesirable-to which many of their split and blackened tops bear witness-I move on towards the Ponte del Vecchio. Rain, however, now sets in, and I can only commence a drawing of this magnificent scene, which I thus pass for the second time without securing, before I am obliged to go on towards Vivario, which I reach at 4.15 P.M., after a not very satisfactory day's work. Now that the fêtes of Corte are over, this road is as unfrequented as any two mounted gendarmes, accompanying two prisoners tied with a long rope, are the only individuals I have seen since I left Serraggio. The hotel in the little back alley at Vivario, is, as when I came through here on the 20th, quite full, but I get two rooms in an adjoining house. The ladder entrance to the public eating-room at the inn is not prepossessing, nor is the appearance of the room itself without need of a balance of compensation, which some opine to be a universal law of nature. Such there certainly was at the hotel of Vivario, where it came in the form of a very jovial and pleasant landlady and of two surprising daughters, the sudden appearance of  from an inner chamber was most astonishing. For not only were these two girls of extreme beauty, both in face and figure, but they were dressed in the best Parisian taste, their coiffure arranged with the utmost care, and altogether they were a very unexpected sight in so rude a mountain village these damsels, however, take no part in the hotel menage, but only beam forth at occasional  Miss C. the landlady here speaks with the greatest enthusiasm, and adds, C'est si remarquable qu'elle soit si gaie, parceque toutes les autres Anglaises qu'on voit sont tristes et froides et superbes, a general accusation of my countrywomen I very positively oppose as untrue. My hostess, how@ever, it is but just to say, excepts the Hon. Mrs. A. B., who it seems has lately been here, from this sweeping condemnation, and, like all the rest who have seen that lady, goes into raptures about her beauty. The Ajaccio Diligence arrives at 6 P.M., when the conducteur, three or four passengers, myself and man, sit down to dinner, at which there are plenty of fine trout and other food of less good quality-but as the good woman says, Siamo in Corsica, in un villaggio, and at short notice little can be got. While at table the storm clouds roll away, and the mountains all at once become so perfectly clear, that I resolve to go down once more to the Ponte del Vecchio, and, late as it is, to make a third and last trial to draw it. So, sending G. to the lodging for a light folio and a single sheet of paper, the Diligence picks me up as I walk on, and rattling quickly down the hill, drops me close to the bridge by 7 P.M., a help forward cheaply paid for by a franc to the con@ducteur. Here I draw, as rapidly as possible, till 7.45 the great snowy summit of Monte Rotondo-if that be it which appears to the left up this wild ravine-the line of crags and dark pine woods all along the centre of the gorge, the immense granite precipices hanging just above the rapid stream, its pro@found shadow and narrow depths here and there lighted up with gleams and flashes of brightness, make at this hour a sublime piece of mountain scenery. There is also this association with the scene, that General Paoli, after the battle of Ponte Nuovo, took leave of his friends at the bridge here-not the solid structure now existing, but one of wood-previous to embarking at Porto Vecchio for his long exile in England. It was 8.30 before I had walked back to Vivario but the magnificent bridge scene was worth this, and even more trouble. See Plate 38. June 2.-This day is to be allotted to forest journeying-by Sorba to Ghisoni, and thence to Marmano. The people of Vivario seem of the true idler stamp, so typical of many Corsican villagers, and so great a contrast to those of Cap Corse and La Balagna. The roba has to be brought from the lodging to the Piazza whence Flora and Co. are to start but, though there are some twenty men standing with their hands in their @Domenico says they are all landed proprietors -not one will lend a helping hand. It is, therefore, as late as 5.45 A.M. before we get off for, with Flora and Co., a long time passes before luggage is properly fastened on yet, though slow, we are sure, and none has ever come loose or fallen off. The great mountains Rotondo and d'Oro are perfectly cloudless, the morning delightful. The road for two kilomètres is the same as that to Ajaccio by Bocognano and from the heights up which it is carried there are good views of Vivario, but so extensive and full of detail as to require more time than I dare give at the beginning of a long day's journey. Then a Route Forestiere, leading to Ghisoni, turns off from the Ajaccio road, and after three more kilomètres, enters the forest of Sorba, which covers the mountain-part, I think, of the great Monte Renoso-on the south of Vivario, and winds with steep and sharp curves, guiltless of parapets, to a great height through the pines, the bocca or summit being at the ninth kilomètre from Vivario. Sorba, one of the smallest forests of Corsica, has naturally no pretensions to rank with those I have previously seen as to extent, but is nevertheless remarkable for the great beauty of its splendid foliage and the great size of its cushion-topped trees, and for their picturesque growth among great rocks and precipices. Moreover, through the whole ascent you have Monte d'Oro and Monte Rotondo in full view, forming the very grandest compositions when combined with the depths of pine, at this early hour all in shadow. All the route to Corte, too, as far as Santa Maria di Venaco, is mapped out below your feet. See Plate 39. The steep descent on the other side from the Col di Sorba-the road in such bad condition from the constant passage of heavy timber-cars that I send on Flora and Co. to the valley below-is wanting in interest and beauty. High up, one glimpse of the eastern plain not far from Migliacciara , and of the Étang d'Urbino is seen, and, for a short space, this gives some@what of a new character to the scenery but the greater part of the walk down to Ghisoni is through a tract, once all forest, but now in a process of exploitation, and completely marred and spoiled. Lower down in the valley-through which, coming from Monte Giovanni the mountain on whose western face stands Bastelica , the stream of Fiumorbo flows to the sea near Ghisonaccio see page 79 -stands Ghisoni, approached through chesnut woods, and apparently, as one looks down on its roofs, a tolerably large and stirring place for it is the point to which the pines are brought from the forests both of Marmáno and that through which I have just passed, as well as the half-way halt between the Casabianda settlement and Corte and also it is the nearest place to the branch penal establishment of Marmáno, where I intend to pass the night. But, as the mid-day storm comes on, with pouring rain, just as I reach the Ghisoni hotel, I hurry on too quickly to allow of much observation along the latter part of the road before I  The scenery from the Col de Sorba is, however, of a commonplace character by comparison with much I have seen in the island. The hotel is a clean, nay, a spruce and tidy locanda, the stairs and rooms splendid when contrasted with those of Vivario the walls and ceilings are painted with landscapes, and groups of fish, game, c., and there are scarlet curtains to all the windows. As usual, a good dish of trout for breakfast was not wanting. Having a letter of introduction to M. le Maire of Ghisoni, and being anxious to know something of the distances of to-morrow's journey, I send it to M. Michele Mattei, who is good enough to call, and give me much infor@mation, as well as a letter to the doctor residing at Marmano, in case no notice of my coming should have been forwarded by M. Beurville, the directeur at Casabianda. There are five kilomètres, says M. Mattei, from the Marmano establishment to the Bocca or Col de Verde at the summit of the forest, and nineteen thence down to Cozzano to Bagni di Guitera there are seven more, and to Zicavo five out of the main road and five back, so that the whole distance may be safely reckoned as being under forty-five kilomètres. The great precipices called the Insecca, of which I have heard so frequently as being some of the most remarkable in Corsica, are as much as eleven kilo@mètres from here on the road to Casabianda, so that although I much wished to see them, all idea of doing so must be given up, as twenty-two extra kilomètres would destroy all chance of my getting to Ajaccio on Thursday. It was nearly 3 P.M. before the violent thunder and rain ceased, and I left the inn of Giorgio Santi, which is one of the cleanest in these parts. Ghisoni is placed among such narrow valleys and high overhanging mountains, that it has an air of gloom from whichever side you see it. The road to Marmano goes up the valley immediately below Monte Renoso, the great snowy lines of which stretch away on the right hand, while on the left towers a remarkable ridge of stupendous precipices, called by the people here Monte Kyrie Eleison, but marked in my map as Serra del Prato these rise out of thick woods of ilex, and are some of the grandest and most noble rocks I have seen. As you proceed, always ascending, the valley narrows, and at each bend round one of the spurs of Monte Renoso, you advance amongst scenery of gloomier grandeur, and at length see the end of the valley of Marmáno, and its dense forests closed in by the wall of Col de Verde, over which lies to-morrow's road. See Vignette, p. 244. Eight kilomètres from Ghisoni the scenery is exceedingly wild woods of chesnut trees of immense size, with oak and ilex, fill up the hollow of the valley above these are great rocks and splendid pines, the narrowing triangle at the head of the gorge being one mass of forest, except a single small clearing, where a few buildings point out the site of the summer convict establishment. The pines clothe the lofty heights to the very summit, and  of stems of these gigantic trees, rising tier above tier in the dark forest, on what seems almost a perpendicular screen of cliff, have a very striking effect. Beautiful, too, though in miniature, are the crimson fox@gloves that edge and overhang the precipices, along which the road runs, glowing and gleaming above the dark abyss below. By the time I reach the end of this second part of to-day's journey-the scenery of which is throughout of a severe and gloomy character-it is 6 P.M. ROCKS OF GHISONI. At the eleventh kilomètre from Ghisoni you suddenly come on a series of barracks, standing on terraces one above another, and these, which are for the convicts, are the only dwellings in this grim solitude, the house of the doctor, the pavilion of M. le Directeur, and some other offices ex@cepted. Here-for I had sent on by Flora and Co. my letter from M. Mattei -the doctor of the establishment, M. Casanova, comes out to meet me, having already heard from M. le Directeur at Casabianda that I should be here to-day. Dr. Casanova is most polite and hospitable, but as the pavilion oc@cupied by M, Beureville when here is being enlarged, I am sorry that I am the cause of putting the worthy doctor and his family to some incon@venience. He and Madame, however, make me and my servant share their@ meal pleasantly enough, and their small children are an intelligent and nice little lot. The arrangements for the night are not so easy in vain I assure these good people that my camp bed is sufficient for me anywhere, and that my servant would be content with a blanket on the floor. A friendly quarrel takes place on the subject, and ultimately nothing can prevent their turning out of a small room, or rather closet, and giving it up for my use, the whole family crowding themselves into the remaining two chambers the house contains. There is just space to insert my camp bed, when put up in one corner, between piles of boxes, groceries, c., any of which I positively refuse to allow of being moved, and the Suliot occupies a shelf on the other side of the room. At night the little house is closely barred and watched by the armed guardiani of this prison in a forest. June 3.-A strange and romantic place is the forest penitencier of Marmano during the winter the number of convicts remaining here is small but if Valdoniello through months of deep snow be a dreary spot, what must be this remote and solitary place, with no one but condemned criminals as neighbours through long nights of gloom ? From half June till October, Marmano is enlivened by the migration from the coast of the whole Casa@bianda establishment, but at the approach of the cold weather all return to the plain. Meanwhile labour goes on always-gardens are made, pines cut down and cut up, and if the heart of the desert does not sing for joy, at least it resounds with the blows of the hatchet. At 5.30 A.M. I take leave of the merry and hospitable Dr. Casanova, and walk up the steep zig-zags through the forest of Marmáno-occasionally visited by Flora to see if I am all safe-to the top of the Col de Verde. The road is carried across and across the face of the great heights which close in the Marmano valley, always among these columnar pine stems-some of them here of extreme size-and in many parts some of the groups of rock and verdure are truly magnificent. Tall beech woods form the upper part of this forest, which, beautiful as it is, is of limited extent compared with those of Ai@tone or Valdoniello. How beautiful in early morning are these great woods! how deep and solemn are the shadows ! how unbroken the silence, except by the cuckoo's note ! nor do I see any live thing all the way but the black and orange lizards which here and there cross the good road. The Col de Verde, or summit of the forest of Marmano, is reached at 7.15 eighty-three kilomètres from Ajaccio , and then follows the long descent into the great valley of the river Taravo, which see p. 36 runs below Bicchisano to the gulf of Valinco at Porto Polio. For five or six kilomètres the downward winding road continues to lead through sublime forest scenes,  but about 8 A.M. the last pines of the Col de Verde forest are passed, and the valley becomes wider, opening out into glades of fern and asphodel, with woods of ilex at intervals, and an uninterrupted view of verdure and snow-capped heights as far as eye can reach-scenes of far too vast a character to be reduced or condensed into a picture. Towards the west, the mountains sink down in the direction of Bicchisano, and far away in the centre of this green landscape is a village I suppose to be Cozzano, but since the Col was passed there is no one at hand to give information as I am walking on, ahead of the trap, from curve to curve of this serpent-like road. The hill-sides become less precipitous and the valley more spacious as I proceed, and at 9 A.M., after descending through beautiful woody scenery to about the sixteenth kilomètre, I wait by a roadside house until Flora and Co. come up, which at length they do, at a pace so slow that something is evidently wrong. One of the ponies has lost a shoe, and Domenico having left his bag of nails at Vivario orders a halt, and leaving the trap and one pony in the care of myself and G., goes with the other and Flora across the valley to Commanaccie, on a nail procuring expedition. While waiting for the driver's return, some cantonniers come and beg me to enter and rest in their little wayside house these good people do not perceive how much more agreeable it is to sit or lie beneath a chesnut-tree contemplating the wide and beautiful landscape, than to encounter the dis@agreeables of a close room the more so, in the present case, that besides the cantonniers there is a party of charcoal-burners, who do not seem to be either of the apathetic, or civil and well-bred nature, so characteristic generally of these islanders, two or three of them having been closely examining the luggage for some time past, and having made themselves not a little dis@agreeable. Towards 10 o'clock, however, Domenico returns, and proceeds to shoe the pony, by no means assisted in his work by the riotous group about him, most of these being elevated by drink, and one of them apparently an idiot. These fellows profess to help my driver by holding up the pony's foot, but in the middle of the shoeing they purposely give it a jerk, and every time the shoe comes off again by this manoeuvre, they dance round the carriage roaring with drunken laughter which game goes on in a very irritating fashion, in spite of the cantonniers' interference, so that I fear a serious quarrel may ensue. When Domenico's patience is nearly exhausted by these practical jokes, it is thought better to drive off with the shoe only partly nailed on a sign of defeat on our part greeted by loud shouts of derision, and especially by the idiot, with the@ wildest shrieks and gestures. I confess I should not have been pleased to have been obliged to pass the night with the society I have just left nevertheless, this is the one and only instance, in two months of Corsican touring, of my having received the least molestation, even in the most out-of-the-way places. This vast valley,  populated above Guitera and Zicavo, leads only to Ghisoni by the forests of Verde and Marmano, seems very little frequented, and thus far in it I have not seen a single mounted gendarme, who are generally met with in pairs from time to time on all the roads. At the sixty-sixth kilomètre from Ajaccio the road passes through Coz@zano, 128 a village of no especial interest all the way thither from the scene of the horse-shoeing being through a succession of fair landscapes, of beautiful woods, and wide spaces of fern with groups of chesnut, oak, and ilex and then follows a descent for six more kilomètres through more cultivated tracts, till the river Taravo is crossed, and the road to Zicavo is passed on the left @@throughout the latter part of this distance the foliage is most delightful, and the, scenery about the Taravo bridge might be in the very richest Derby@shire or Devonshire valley the hills nearer Guitera are to the full as beauti@fully wooded as those above the Thames at Clifden. At noon, in the midst of this lovely wood and river scenery I come to ten or twelve houses by the roadside, one of which is what Domenico has pre@viously described as the bellissimo Hotel de' Bagni di Guitera, a rustic but cleanly house, at the back of which are the mineral springs so frequented in summer by invalids from all parts of Corsica. This place is about thirty-two kilomètres from Marmano, and twenty-six from Grosseto Zicavo is twelve distant. I decide therefore on remaining at these baths to-night, the onward road to Grosseto, which crosses a spur of the mountains, being, according to Domenico, a steep one he, moreover, volunteers if I sleep here to bring me to Ajaccio early to-morrow afternoon. Thus Zicavo can well be visited from here later in the day, by taking Flora and C@o without luggage up the hill, and walking back. While breakfast is being prepared, I go to see the mineral springs at the back of the hotel, which are very remarkable. A large circular basin boils over with the hot water, and the overflow is conducted by pipes to a row of log barracks or huts used as private baths for one of these you pay five soldi twenty-five centesimi but if you are economically inclined, you may bathe gratis in an open public reservoir close to the main springs. To me, this water, which resembles that of Harrowgate, and has an ancient decayed-egg flavour, was disgusting but I am assured that you come to like it very much if you will only persevere in drinking it and, certainly, some persons whom I saw, quaffed whole tumblers of it with great apparent relish. The people of the inn-at the risk of repetition, I must state that they were thoroughly obliging folk-@gave me an exceptionally good breakfast, served by a damsel very different to those who usually attend on the Diligence passengers in the Corsican inns, and whose face, without being absolutely handsome, was very pretty and full of expression, of intelligence and  was ready, there was a stew, which @I observed my servant regarding uneasily, for it did not seem to be hare, and was certainly not fowl- Scusate, said the polite waitress, apologetically, questo piatto è -o scusate !-di quell' animale nero-scusate !-Please to excuse-this dish is-oh please excuse !-that black animal-excuse ! 129 More could not be said had the object been a cat, whereas it was sucking-pig and on bringing a dish of roast meat to table, there were renewed apologies- Vostro perdono davvero ! bisogna scusare si sa-quest' e il parte di dietro della stessa piccola bestia nera !-really I beg pardon-excuse it, you know-this is the hinder part of the same little black beast ! Notwithstanding all these apologies, none were needed, for the little black beast was excellent both stewed and roasted some apple-fritters also were admirable and, though the good cheese of Balagna is not found in these parts, the wine was excellent about which, when I had enquired if they had any good here, the polite reply had been, not any worthy of your merit, but some we hope you may find drinkable. This very rustic hotel has many rooms above the ground floor you ascend by ladder-staircases to the upper chambers all coarsely whitewashed and as nearly unfurnished as may be yet there is a respect for cleanliness everywhere visible about the house, the floors and passages are clean, and the whole rural establishment prepossessing, though humble. Round the house-now that one is no longer at Cap Corse or Balagna-loiterers, clad in the usual black velveteen, are not lacking, and stare in at the window fixedly. And, as usual, when the carriage stops at such houses, a small crowd of children swarm into and take possession of the empty vehicle. The usual afternoon storm and rain having come on, it is 3.30 P.M. before 1 can start off from Zicavo, the woody places of this lovely valley being all fresh and odorous of clematis and honeysuckle. At 4, having retraced the road of this morning for a few kilomètres, a Route Forestière leaves the Ajaccio highway and winds up the side of a deep gorge, where great ches@nut and ilex woods are the chief characteristic, and the villages or communes of Zicavo are thereafter constantly in sight. They may be described as standing in a vast wooded amphitheatre or hollow in the great Incudine mountain range, the plain or plateau of Coscione being immediately beyond the highest summits which tower over the villages, below more distant crags and precipices also partially wooded. The wide space of rich foliage is brightened by scattered houses gleaming among the woods on the hill-side and in the principal hamlet there seem some good houses as well as a rather picturesque white church there, too, Domenico points out the Casa Abbatucci. The great ravine and river far below are full of beauty, and all the rocky descent to the roaring stream is Pig porco is never mentioned in Italy by polite folk without an apology, and as all, or nearly all Italian pigs are black, it is called animale nero. -E. L.  with a growth of magnificent chesnut and ilex yet, on so large a scale is the scenery, that it would be by no means easy to portray Zicavo as a whole, notwithstanding the great beauty of its position. All this, however, I scarcely saw more of than in my approach to the villages, for, unfortunately, violent rain and thunder recommenced after I had sent back Flora and Co. to Guitera so that after part of the afternoon had been passed in shelter below some rocks, it became too late in the day to advance farther, and I had to make the best of my way back to the Bagni di Guitera. As I returned to the hotel after the failure of my Zicavo exploit, the beau@tiful landscape round it was alive with flocks of sheep and goats all of course black going up to the mountains for the summer some of the shepherds and their families were as picturesque as Corsican peasants can be-which in these our days is not saying much, since their old costume, the pointed cap, gaiters, c., has ceased out of the land. Many scenes in the deep hollows of the Taravo continually remind me of leafy glen-scenery in Yorkshire or Devon@shire perhaps the bridge near Guitera, with its hanging fern and drooping alders, its rocks and foaming river, is one of the loveliest points in this picturesque neighbourhood. Flora, this being the last day of dining in Corsican rural inns, is invited to dinner-most amiable and intelligent of @@small spotty dogs. Afterwards, the rest of the evening was passed in describing the cities of Europe to the pretty daughter of the house, who, notwithstanding her mother's summons, lingered to listen to details of outer-world novelties until the call had been thrice repeated. June 4.-I rise at 4 A.M., and Flora and Co., are off by 5 from the clean little humble hotel, whose managers are the civillest of people. The Hotel Guitera, kept by Ventura Bozzi, is worth a longer visit, for it is a pleasant and quiet halting-place in the midst of exquisite scenery. The drive from the baths to the main Ajaccio and Bonifacio road, by Santa Maria Zicché d'Ornano, 130 is one of the most enchanting in all Corsica.  I passed some immense ri@dges and vast woods. At Bastelica, where there is a stately spirited race of people.@.@. At Ornano I saw the ruins of the seat where the great Sampiero had his residence.@-Boswell. Sta. M. d'Ornano is a little village surrounded by mountains. I slept there in the tower of Vanina, a sort of fort, and the highest house in Santa Maria. The ruins of a castle of Sampiero are near S. M. d'Ornano, and of the chapel, separated from the castle by a field, across which Sampiero did not scruple to hear, or rather see, the mass performed from his window.@-@Valery, i., p. 193. This was the native country of the fair Vannina, and there stands the high brown turretted house which belonged to her, picturesquely situated on an eminence commanding the valley. Near it are per@ceived the ruins of a castle built by Sa@mpiero, and a chapel in its vicinity where he heard mass. He is said to have contented himself with looking out of the window of his castle when mass was said. He built the castle in the year 1554.-@Gregorovius, p. 411. Opposite the ruined house of Vannina Ornano, the wife of Sampiero, there stands a half-destroyed chapel, with a large door. Tradition says it was built by order of Sampiero and that from his house he assisted at the sacrifice of the mass although some hundreds of metres distant, he could see the priest officiating at the altar.-Galletti, p.  side of this great valley, termi@nating at Bicchisano but that can scarcely be so beautiful, since it does not include the variety of crossing the mountain spurs that form one of the most charming parts of the northern line of route. The Route Forestière to Grosseto soon turns off to the right, and rises gradually by pleasant lanes among wooded and maquis @@-covered tracts, through landscape which at this hour is indescribably lovely, and constantly recalls the best and fairest distances of Claude Lorraine's paintings. After yesterday's rain, every  sparkles with moisture, and it is impossible to conceive more beautiful spots than there are at every turn of this road, either looking back eastward to the heights of Monte Incudine above Zicavo, or westward to the long long lines of the valley of the Taravo, fading away into the hills near Sollacaro on the  is the first village passed, and one where a landscape painter might pass a summer with delight. Then another @hamlet Frasseto with slopes of immense fern-shading chesnut-trees, ilex of astonishing beauty, and vast walnut-trees and after this follows a long and steep ascent-Domenico was quite right in dissuading me from attempting it late yesterday afternoon-the top of which was reached at 8 A.M. Then the road dips down into a  of mountains, and, circling round spur after spur, gradually descends to Santa Maria through a succession of villages-Sevato, Quasquara, and others -all full of picturesque beauty, not so much owing to any charm of archi@tecture, as to the combination of the houses with foliage and distance. At about three kilomètres before reaching the main Ajaccio route impériale, at the foot of the ascent to Col S. Giorgio, a branch road turns off to the village of Santa Maria Zicché, where there is a church with an extremely picturesque campanile and thus, a short distance farther, always passing through beautiful scenes of graceful woody landscape, I come for the third time to Grosseto, at the seventeenth kilomètre from Ajaccio, by 9.30 A.M., and once more go to the pleasant little village inn of Madame Lionardi. Undoubtedly the drive hither from Guitera ranks among the first for lovely scenery in all this beautiful island. The little village of Grosseto is all astir, and something is happening, for the roadside is full of groups of gendarmes. Madame Lionardi explains, with many apologies for not being able to give me breakfast in the sitting-room, that all the house is taken for the General commanding the troops in the arrondissement of Ajaccio, and for@ other officials, whose luggage is momentarily arriving, on account of a review of gendarmerie, a conscription, c. But the obliging family of the hotel soon clear out another room, and I occupy an hour till breakfast comes, by drawing some of the grand ilex trees close to the house. This place, and indeed all the valley of Grosseto, and of the Taravo, is truly one for a painter to sojourn in who desires to study the evergreen oak in its most luxuriant growth and finest form. After this, a fine dish of trout, good cutlets, and superb broccio, add one more to the pleasant memories already registered of the Hotel des Amis. The son of Madame Lionardi tells me that a brother of Mr. B. arrived at Olmeto about a week ago, and that the dying man was then removed to Ajaccio, where he died on the following day, and that the day before yester@day his body was embarked for Marseilles news which, after what I had seen of the poor invalid's condition when I was last in Olmeto, was to me no surprise. I give an hour to a walk to Santa Maria Zicché, to obtain a drawing of the picturesque campanile there , probably the last I shall make in Corsica. An old woman by the roadside asks me for qual cosa, and this is only the third instance of begging I have known in my eight weeks' tour. All along this part of the valley there have of late been very violent hail-storms, and the vines, they tell me, have been greatly damaged. Returning to Grosseto by I P.M., Flora and Co. are ready, and I leave the village as the arrivals of gendarmes, walking, riding, and driving, continually increase the hubbub soon we have trotted up the Col St. Giorgio, from which I take a last look at these beautiful scenes. How lovely and green is the  hill and dale ! Addio, for the third time, noble and verdant valleys of the Taravo ! Soon the maquis @@-grown crescent of hills beyond the Col is passed then the familiar village of Cauro, and the far view of Ajaccio is seen on the horizon the run down to the Piano dell' Oro follows and I am soon once more in Ajaccio, where the squadron of ironclads enliven the bay, if, indeed, any place may be said to be enlivened by those specimens of naval archi@tecture. My journeys in Corsica are ended much more there is to see, but time is up, and the glass of Corsican travel is run out close, therefore, the note-book of research, and lock it up in the closet of resignation. After the fresh mountain air how hot does Ajaccio now seem ! and above all the small rooms of the Ottavi Hotel ! Flora and Co. are dismissed with esteem. No better nor more careful coachman could be found anywhere than the youth Domenico, who, by-the-bye, is an amateur, having, as he told my servant, property to the amount of 20,000 francs, and who drives about to see the world by choice- per piacer di veder il mondo, fuori di Corsica no-ma tutta l'isola. Farewell spotty little beast of excellent qualities-Flora, best of dogs ! June 5.-This day has passed-first, in finishing drawings of the town at sunrise secondly, in packing my 350 drawings and in purchasing gourds and photographs thirdly, in making PP.C. calls at the Prefecture and elsewhere, and in wandering among the beautiful wild olive and cactus-grown dells beyond the Cours Grandval. In the evening I dine at M. le Préfet's. Admiral Jurien de la Gravière and others are there. Among other matters I hear that the L. K.'s were in Corsica last winter, and that my old Abruzzo companion in 1843, C. A. K., was also here. June 6.-A day of last packings. In the afternoon, at 4.30 P.M., I left the worthy Ottavis and the Hotel de Londres, and came on board the Insulaire steamer, getting the identical berth I came in two months ago. The two trotting poodles were also performing as in times past. At 6 I make a last drawing of the head of the gulf beautifully clear and rosily coloured at sunset were the cliffs above Sari, and the snows of Monte d'Oro gorgeous beyond description the hues on the sea as the sun went down behind the rocky islet gates of the gulf. At 6.30 Miss C. and other returning travellers had come on board, and at 7.30 we started, and soon, beyond the Îles Sanguinaires, lost sight of the gulf of Ajaccio and the wild mountain ranges. As night came on, the headlands about the gulf of Sagona were the last I could trace of Corsica, and next morning by 9 we were in the harbour of Nice. Soon I was once more at Cannes, and looking at the ever-beautiful Esterelles, than which there are many grander forms, but few more delicately perfect and  of too many notes in the text of the Journal in Corsica, I have thrown into a single chapter some necessary and desirable information on various subjects connected with the island -its natural formation, history, the manners of its inhabitants, c. The whole is given in the shape of notes, to each of which is appended the authority from which it is borrowed.-@E. L. Corsica is the third largest island in the Mediterranean, Sicily and Sardinia being  greater size. It is situated between the 41@° and 43° of N. latitude, and between  and 7° of E. longitude. The distance from the coast of Italy is 56 miles, from that of @@of France, 90. Its length is 115 miles, and its greatest breadth about 54. Corsica is a mere mass of Alpine ridges rising out of the sea like a vessel or the roof of a house. The moun@tains attain their highest elevation in the centre. There are two mountain ranges which form the island, running longitudinally through it from north to south. The eastern range commences at Cape Corso, a narrow longitudinal mountain, some 3,000 feet high, and more than twenty miles long, the base of which is bathed by the sea both east and west. This range is secondary, calcareous, and descends to the south at a moderate elevation. The second range is primitive, granitic it com@mences near the west coast at I@sola Rossa, rises rapidly to a height of 8,000 and 9,000 feet, and runs through the island down to its southern extremity. The different geological nature of these two mountain ranges has, in the course of countless ages, modified the character of the eastern and western shores. The eastern range, composed, as was stated, of secondary, calcareous rocks, is more easily disintegrated and washed away by the action of the elements. Owing to this cause, the rivers which descend from their sides, and form the central regions of the island, through clefts which these calcareous mountains present, have deposited at their base alluvial plains of considerable extent. Through these rich alluvial plains several large streams meander to reach the sea. This they accomplish with difficulty, owing to the lowness of the shore and to the prevalence of the scirocco or south-east wind, which constantly throws up large masses of sand at their mouths. Hence the formation, along the eastern shore, of large salt-water ponds, into some of which the rivers empty themselves. Under the burning glare of a Mediterranean sun, these terrestrial conditions, large ponds of brackish water, marshes, and rich alluvial plains liable to periodical overflow, embody all the elements calculated to produce malaria of the most deadly character. By such malaria is this region rendered all but uninhabitable for half the year. The western, primary, granitic range of mountains is the real backbone of the island. It must have been thrown up long before the secondary eastern range, is very much higher, and is covered in some regions with eternal snow. This range is jagged and irregular  It throws out high granitic spurs towards the western sea, which jut into deep water and form deep bays or gulfs, as is usual with primary rocks. These spurs divide the western side of the island into deep wide picturesque valleys. At the bottom of each valley runs a brawling stream, which carries to the sea the watershed of the high snow-clad mountains, and forms an alluvial plain of greater or less extent as it nears the coast. Disintegration, however, during the geological period, has been slow, owing to the granitic character of the mountains, and the rivers have carried less soil to the sea than those of the eastern or calcareous side of the island. The alluvial plains are consequently all but confined to the mountain valleys, and the sea is very deep near the shore. On this side of the island are all the natural ports, with the exception of that of Porto Vecchio on the south-east coast. Thus there are no ponds, the marshes are small in extent, limited by the immediate vicinity of the outlet of the rivers, and malaria and intermittent fever are com@paratively, but slightly felt-Bennet, p. 226. The island of Corsica is divided by a chain of mountains which runs from north to south. The western part presents a granitic formation the eastern is calcareous and schistose. Three different climates are distinguishable in this island. Near the sea-shore the severity of winter is never felt, even in January and February throughout the greater part of the island, where the population is most numerous, these are the coldest months, and this may be called the second climate. A third exists in the high mountains, but in those parts there are no inhabitants, except in some villages, such as Vivario, the Niolo, Bocognano, c. -Galletti, p.  very glorious vegetation of the island is favoured by the climate. The Corsican climate has three zones of temperature, graduated according to the elevation of the ground. The first climatic zone rises from the sea level to a height of 1,903 feet the second, from thence to the height of 6,398 feet the third, thence to the summit of the mountains. The first zone, namely, the sea-coast in general, is as warm as the parallel coasts of Italy and Spain. It has, properly speaking, only two seasons, spring and summer the thermo@meter rarely descends here two or three degrees below the freezing point, and then only for a few hours. On all the coasts the sun is warm, even in January, but the nights and the shade are cool at every season. The sky is overclouded only at intervals the south-east wind alone, the harsh scirocco, brings prolonged fogs, which are dispersed again by the violent south-wester or libeccio. Upon the moderate cold of January follows soon a dog-day heat of eight months, and the temperature rises from 50° to 72°, and even 90@° in the shade. It is a misfortune to the vegetation when it does not rain in March or April, and no unfrequent case either, but the Corsican trees have generally hard and tough leaves, which resist drought, as the oleander, myrtle, cystus, lentiscus, and oleaster. In Corsica, as in all hot climates, the watery and shady districts of the levels are almost pestilential it is impossible to walk there in the evening without catching a long and severe fever, which, if total change of air be not resorted to, may end in dropsy or death. The second climatic zone of the island corresponds to the climate of France, especially of Burgundy and Brittany. The snow that appears there in November sometimes lasts twenty days but, remarkably enough, it does no damage to the olive up to the elevation of 3,806 feet 1,160 mètres , but renders it yet more fruitful. The chesnut appears to be the characteristic tree of this zone for it stops at a height of 6,398 feet, and then yields to the green oaks, pines, beeches, box, and juniper. In this climate the majority of the people live in scattered villages, on mountain slopes, and in valleys. The third climate is cold and stormy, as that of Norway, during eight months in the year. The only inhabited places in this zone are the Niolo, and the two forts  and Vizzavona. Beyond these inhabited places, the eye can discern no other vegetation than pines clinging to gray rocks. There dwell the vulture and the wild sheep, and there is the storehouse and birthplace of the many streams that rush down to the plains below. Corsica may thus be considered as a pyramid rising in gradations of three horizontal steps, of which the lowest is warm and moist, the upmost cold and dry, and the middle one partakes of both qualities.-Gregorovius, p. 121. The air is fresh and healthful, except in one or two places, which are moist, and where the air, especially in summer, is suffocating and sickly but in general the Corsicans breathe a pure atmosphere, c.-Boswell, p. 15. Like other mountainous countries, Corsica is exceedingly picturesque..... To the agriculturist who estimates a district by its production, the man who looks at a river with a view to inland navigation, and to the effeminate traveller, who judges of a country by the qualities of its roads and hotels, the rugged mountains, the rich but neglected valleys, the boisterous torrents, and the trackless forests of Corsica would afford no gratification but to him who can associate and almost identify himself with nature, the island affords a treat of no ordinary kind.-Benson, p.  OF THE MOUNTAIN RANGE IN CORSICA, FROM SOUTH TO NORTH.  The eastern part of Corsica possesses but few ports-the cove of Barcaggio, the port of Macinaggio, that of Porticciolo, and the cove of Erbalunga in Cap Corse the port of Bastia, that of Favone, the gulf of Porto Vecchio, and the port of Bonifacio at the extreme south-east point of the island. On the contrary the north-west, west, and south-west coasts being all indented, form several gulfs and ports, as, the little port of Centuri, the gulf of St. Florent, the port of Île Rousse, the gulf and port of Calvi, the gulfs of Rivellata, Crovani, Galeria, Focolare d'Elba, Girolata, Porto, Chiomi, Pero, Sagona, Liscia, Lava, Provençal, Ajaccio, Valinco, Mortoli, Roccaspina, Figari, and Ventilegne, and the ports of Portobello, Propriano, and Campo Moro.-Galletti, p. 36. The rivers of Corsica, or rather the torrents, are the Golo, which receives the streams of the Asco, the Tartagine, Casaluna@, and others, flows into the sea twenty kilomètres from Bastia, near the ruins of Mariana. The Tavignano receives the waters of the Restonica, and, as the Vecchio, the Corsigliese, Tagnone, c., flows eastward to the sea at Aleria. The Liamone flows into the sea on the west side of the island near the gulf of Sagona, the Bevinco, Fiumalto, and Fiumorbo. gsmall lakes of fresh water in the mountainous region of the island shut up, as it were, in the hollows of granite and porphyry, they are mostly inaccessible. The largest of these lakes is situated at the foot of Monte Rotondo, by which name it is called it has a superficies of seven hectares, and in it the torrent of the Vecchio takes its rise. Of less extent than the lake of Monte Rotondo, the Lake Nino or I@no adorns one of the ends of the Campotile, and at the opposite end of the same plain is the Lake Creno. The Monte Renoso also contains some lakes, the Upper and Lower Rino, the Bastani, the Vetelacca, and the Bracco this last-mentioned lake is almost always frozen.-Galletti, pp. 14, 18, 36, c. ROADS. The roads of Corsica are divided into three principal systems -First, those which unite the eastern and western coasts secondly, those which follow the shore and serve succes@sively to each basin as its communication thirdly, the route forestière, traced along the principal water-courses, and opening out on to the most frequented ports. The road which goes round Corsica is divided into four parts-that from Ajaccio to Bonifacio traverses the valleys of the Gravona, the Prunelli, the Taravo, the Rizzanese, and the small secondary valleys comprised between Sarténé and Bonifacio, touching at the ports of Ajaccio, Propriano, and Bonifacio, and climbing successively at great heights the edges which separate the basins of the Prunelli, the Taravo, Rizzanese, and Ortolo, goes through Grosseto, Olmeto, and Sarténé, and serves the southern part of all the western slope. The road from Bonifacio to Macinaggio follows the eastern coast in all its length. Less irregular than the last, it presents, nevertheless, several inclines.-Grandcham@ps, p. 103. In the first years after the conquest of the island by the French, the government made a carriage-road from Bastia to Corte and Ajaccio. During the Republic, the First Empire, and the Restoration, the roads were not enough attended to but with the reign of King Louis Philippe, the regeneration of Corsica commenced, and under that of the Emperor Napoleon III. works have been accomplished, which, to the older natives of the island, seem to be dreams rather than realities.-Galletti, p. 53. The coasts of Corsica are lighted by five lighthouses of the first class, and by four lanterns or beacons. The lighthouses are placed at the point of Cap Corse on the island of la Geraglia at the point of la Revellata, near Calvi on the Grand Sanguinaire, near Ajaccio at the point of Pertusato, near Bonifacio and at Porto Vecchio, on the point of la Chiappa. The lanterns are at the entrances of the ports of Île Rousse, Ajaccio, Bonifacio, and Bastia.@-@Grandchamps, p. 97. The sulphurous waters of Corsica are Pietrapola, Puzzichello, Guitéra, Caldaniccia, and Guagno. Orezza is the principal ferruginous source.-Galletti, p. 20. In the Abbé Galletti's book may be found a very interesting and detailed account of the mineral waters of Corsica, given by M. le Docteur Constantine James. Those of Pietrapola were anciently known, as there are still vestiges of Roman baths to be seen there. These waters are spoken of with the highest commendation. Doctor J. augurs a great future for Guitéra, and states that the source of hot springs now in use forms but a small fraction  mineral riches of this locality. Valuable information on the subject of malaria, or other causes of unhealthiness, in various parts of Corsica, may be found in Dr. Bennet's Winter in South of Europe, and in a paper communicated by him to the Lancet, Aug. 1, 1868. The most populous of the Corsican towns are found on the shore, near the mouths of streams. Bastia, not far from the Golo St. Florent, at the mouth of the Aliso. Others probably existed at the mouth of the Ostriconi, Liamone, and Tavignano. These were all destroyed in the middle ages by Mediterranean pirates, and their inhabitants, seeking shelter in the mountains, founded new villages among inaccessible rocks. The successive migrations from the sea-side to the higher districts may be easily fixed those from the Ostriconi founded Palasca those from the Osari built Belgodere those from the mouth of the Fiume-Secco, Calenzana and everywhere the inhabitants of the mountains own, at the present day, the plains watered by the streams at the sources of which they settled. When Corsica ceased to be desolated by the incursions of pirates, it was no longer possible to reconstruct the villages which once stood on the shore for the plains, having become marshy, @were uninhabitable, and as they are at this day, unhealthy and uncultivated, hence all the produce of the valleys, which should have been shipped from the shore to the continent, has to be taken up to the villages, to be transported later to a place of embarkation.-Grandcha@mps,  the agriculture of Corsica, its manufactures are in a very sorry state. They are C confined to the most indispensable wants of trade and nourishment the women almost everywhere weave the coarse brown Corsican cloth panno Corso also called pelone the herdsmen make cheese and the cheese-cake broccio salt works there are only in the gulf of Porto Vecchio. Sardines, tunny, and coral, are taken on many parts of the coast, but the fisheries are conducted with no vigour. The commerce of Corsica is likewise very incon@siderable. The chief export is oil. of which the island possesses such a quantity that, with more extended cultivation, it could produce it to the value of sixty millions of francs but also lemons, wines, pulse, chesnuts, fresh and salt fish, timber, dyes, hides, coral, marble, and manufactured tobacco, especially cigars, for which the leaves are imported. The chief imports are corn, grain, rice, sugar, coffee, cattle, silk, cotton, linseed, leather, iron-ore, and hardware, tiles, glass, and pottery. The chief commerce of the island belongs to the ports of Bastia, Ajaccio, Isola Rossa, and Bonifazio.-Gregorovius, p. 127,  between France and Italy, its climate, its fertility, the brilliant qualities of its people, unite to claim attention to this privileged spot. Unhappily, labour has not as yet called forth its natural riches agriculture is neglected its streams descend from mountains to feed infectious marshes in the plains its ports are sand choked its coasts remain desert and abandoned rivalries are transmitted from father to son for ages and the population, idle in the midst of universal progress, seems condemned to a fatal immobility. What does this country need to give it movement and life-to develop in it the love of work -to extinguish that thirst for vengeance which so frequently provokes murder and conflagration ? Throughout three centuries the wisest edicts remain without force against the rooted prejudices of a people. Encouragement, repression, severity, all have failed before the proud contempt of the Corsicans for agriculture. It is necessary, in order to draw Corsica from its isolation, to bring the island @more in communication with the neighbouring continent. Then, and not till then, will prejudices fall, and the face of the country be changed.@.@.@. The hour is come for Corsica to join in the European movement of progress.-@Grandchamps, Introduction, p. vi. The greater number of the Basins or valleys of Corsica are independent of each other, and at first sight it would seem that in the interior of the island there exists no centre of  powerful to react on the whole country, and to unite the population of the eastern @@@with those of the western sides. This fact explains the history of Corsica, the enmities of @@@great families established in separate Basins separated by high mountains, and the fruitless @@@@attempts of the Corsicans to establish their nationality. Immense riches, vegetable and mineral, lie concealed in Corsica and it is necessary t@@o@ study the different Basins of the island to discover the best mode of favouring their natural i@ development, and the part each have to play in the general regeneration of the country. The colonisation of Corsica by France will commence naturally by the Basins of the @@@@Western watershed. All are important, but that which permits the easiest communicatio@@n@@ between the two mountain slopes of Corsica is the Basin of Nebbio, which opens on the@@@@ Gulf of S. Florent, and is at once the nearest to France and Italy, and one of the richest@@@@ and best cultivated of the island. The Basins on the eastern side of the island contain, on a larger scale, the same elements @@@@of riches and the same causes of unhealthiness. Everywhere there are uncultivated plains@@@@ devastated by the flocks, and burned by the wild carelessness of the shepherds. Death@@@@ seems to reign in the midst of these desert shores, although Nature, prodigally generous t@@o@ their inhabitants, places every gift at their disposal. It is requisite, in order to colonise Corsica, that the population now fixed in the moun@@@@@tains should be attracted to the shor@e that those towns which are called by their position to @@@exercise a decided influence over the great divisions of Corsica should be developed that a@@@@ new town, destined to become the pivot of Corsican interests, should be founded in the heart@@@ of the country and that a railway should be opened between the eastern and western side@@s@@ to unite all the towns, and facilitate their relations with the neighbouring continent.@@-@@Grandchamps, pp. 4, 6, 16, 33, 49, c. Referring to the influence which the isolation necessarily produced by the physical@@@ formation of the country must needs have upon the character of its inhabitants, M. Grand@@@@@@champs points out the difficulty of fixing on a central site from which to govern the island@@,@@ and insists on the necessity of founding a town in the heart of the country, to be equall@@y@@ accessible from the shore and from its interior. This spot, from which the work of renovatio@@n@ and colonisation should be commenced, he maintains must be that nearest to Marseilles and@@@ Toulon, and at the same time the one by which communication with the centre and easternrn@ side of Corsica can most easily be attained. Île Rousse, he asserts, unites these two @@@conditions, as it is at once the port nearest to France, and to the lowest pass over the @@@@mountains which divide Corsica into two parts. @He therefore suggests that a railway be @@@formed from Île Rousse to Bastia and Porto Vecchio, by the valley of the Ostriconi, the @@@@Col di Pietralba, the valley of the Golo, and the eastern plain, by which, in eight hours at@@@ most, the centres of population most remote from Île Rousse would be reached, For details@@@@@ as to the choice of Île Rousse as a starting-point for a railway, the selection of Ponte alla@@@@ Leccia as a central site for a new town, and the establishment of French colonies at the@@@@ mouths of the rivers Ostriconi, Sagona, c., and at Solenzara, Aleria, and other places, see@@@@ various parts of M. Grandchamps'  of Phocaeans from Asia Minor are the first inhabitants of Corsica whom history@@@@ mentions these, or the Carthaginians who succeeded them, founded Alalia, or Aleria@@.@@@ Carthage conquered by Rome, Corsica became Roman, and new cities were built by Ma@@@rius at Mariana, and by Sylla at Aleria. On the division of the Roman power, Corsica was attached to the eastern empire, and s@@o@ continued till A.D. 460, when the Vandals conquered it under Genseric after their expulsio@@n@ by Belisarius and Narses, it continued a dependency of the Greek empire, as part of the@@@@ Exarchate of Ravenna, until 750, when it was taken by the Saracens. These were finall@@y@@@ defeated early in the ninth century u@nder Charlemagne, and Corsica was granted to Boniface, Count of Tuscany, whose descendants for some time governed the  the year 1000 a succession of feudal lords became the rulers ot Corsica but in 1077 these were opposed by the people, who rose against them, and gave themselves to the Popes, who, in 1081 Urban II. , transferred the sovereignty of the island to the Bishop of Pisa. The Republic of Genoa protested against this act, and in 1133 Innocent II. divided the Corsican bishoprics equally between Pisa and Genoa, an arrangement which by no means pacified the island, and the two Republics continued to make it their field of battle until, in 1347, the contest was ended by the capture of Giudice della Rocca and the defeat of the Pisans, when Corsica fell under the yoke of the Genoese, who thenceforth held it for 400 years. The government of the Pisans in Corsica was mild and just that of the Genoese is, on the contrary, accused of having been always the opposite, nor do they appear ever to have been regarded by the Corsicans with any feelings but those of hatred. Early in the fifteenth century, Alfonso of Arragon claimed the island as having been granted to Spain by Pope Boniface VIII., but the Spaniards were defeated in 1541, and the French, who had intervened, evacuated the island in 1559, leaving Genoa its sole mistress. The oppression and cruelty of the Genoese was such that the islanders revolted from them in 1564, under Sampiero of Bastelica, and after this rebellion was put down, the Republic governed Corsica with unchanged severity until 1729, when, under Ceccaldi and Giaf@feri, an insurrection broke out, which led ultimately to the defeat of the Genoese and their final withdrawal from the island. Genoa then solicited aid from the Emperor Charles VI., and the troops he sent were defeated by the islanders and in 1732 a peace was signed between the two parties, of no long duration, since war again broke out in 1736, when the Corsicans chose themselves a king in Theodore, Baron von Neuhoff. In 1737 the Genoese were again obliged to call for assistance, this time from the French, and the war, on the part of the Corsicans against them and the Republic of Genoa combined, continued until 1741, when the island submitted once more to the Genoese, and the French quitted it. Soon, however, under Gaffori and Matra, and later under the great Pasquale Paoli, the Corsicans once more rose against their oppressors, and succeeded in nearly wresting the island from their hands, except some of the fortresses, which at that time Genoa made over to the French. Paoli, meanwhile, who ruled the interior of the island from 1755 to 1769, continued to make war on the Genoese, and by degrees dispossessed them of their hold in all parts of the island, when the Republic at length, finding itself everywhere completely beaten, entered into a secret treaty with M. Choiseul, minister of Louis XV., by which all Genoese rights over Corsica were formally transferred to the French nation. This was in 1768, and thenceforward the French fought with Paoli and the Corsicans on their own account alone. Ultimately, after several reverses, they completed the final subversion of Corsican liberty at the battle of Ponte Nuovo, May 9, 1769. From that time the French supremacy has been acknowledged in Corsica, with the exception of the short period, 1794-1796, when, after some troubles, during the period of the French Revolution, George III. of England was proclaimed King of Corsica, a sovereignty which lasted for two years only. Since 1796 the dominion of the French has not been disturbed and from that date the peaceful progress of the island and its population, once so divided and harassed, has been ensured and gradually developed.-Benson, Fries, Gregorovius, Grandcha@mps, @@c., c.c. The Abbé Galletti, speaking of the allegorical figure of Corsica represented, by order of Sixtus V., in the Vatican above the battle of Constantine and Maxentius , speaks of that Pope as Corsican by origin, and of his forming a regiment of Corsican guards, c. And it was by the care of this Pontiff that a number of Corsican families, oppressed by the Genoese, combined to form a colony, and established themselves in a spot which is  Vallecorsa. This place, in the Rio di Vallefratta, near Anagni and Frosinone, is now a little town of 3,500 inhabitants.-Galletti, p. 8. NOTICES OF GENERAL PAOLI. Born at Rostino, on April 25, 1725, Pasquale Paoli was second son of Giacinto Paoli, one of the leaders of the Corsican people in their last great struggle against the tyranny of the Genoese. Compelled by the course of events to retire to Naples in 1739, Giacinto Paoli was accompanied by his son Pasquale, who, inheriting his father's talents and patriotism, there received a finished education, both civil and'military. Being much about the court, the young Corsican acquired, with high accomplishments, those polished manners for which he was afterwards distinguished, c. Recalled to Corsica in 1755 to take the supreme command of affairs, in consequence of the divisions prevailing among the patriot leaders, the expulsion of the Genoese became his first duty and he soon succeeded in freeing the interior of the island, and confining their occupation to the narrow limits of the fortified towns on the coast. His next step was to remodel, or rather to create, the civil government and in so doing he introduced an admirable form of a representative constitution, founded, as far as possible, on old Corsican institutions. It was, in fact, a Republic, of which Pasquale Paoli was the chief magistrate and commander of the forces. One of the earliest acts of his administration was a severe law for the suppression of the bloody practice of Vendetta, followed in course of time by measures for the encourage@ment of agriculture, and by the foundation of a university at Corte. With a small squadron of ships, which he got together and equipped, he succeeded, after repulsing the Genoese fleet, in wresting the island of Capraja from the Republic. Intestine divisions having always been the bane of Corsican independence, the party of Matra opposed to Paoli rose in insur@rection, and calling in the Genoese to their aid, it was only after a long and bloody struggle that Paoli and the nationals became firmly settled in power, and grew in strength, until the Genoese found themselves unable to cope with a brave and united people. After some further ineffectual attempts, they applied once more to France for succour, and that power, by the treaty of Compiègne, 1764, limited the occupation of the strong forts of the island to a term of four years. In this position they preserved a strict neutrality, the patriots having entire possession of the country, excepting the fortified places, and thus, under the firm and active administration of its wise chief, the commonwealth flourished, and the Genoese power in Corsica shrunk to nothing. It was at this time that Boswell visited the island, c. The time for the evacuation of Corsica by the French having arrived, they had withdrawn from Ajaccio and Calvi, when the Genoese, finding themselves incapable of retaining possession of the island, offered to cede their rights to the King of France. In 1768, the Due de Choiseul resolved on annexing Corsica to France, and crossed the neutral lines on the eastern side of the island. Pasquale Paoli and his brother Clement led the people en masse against the threatened tyranny, and the French troops were signally defeated at Borgo. But Chauvelin being recalled, Comte de Vaux became general, and ultimately 40,000 Frenchmen decided the fate of Corsica at Ponte Nuovo in 1769. Pasquale Paoli and Clement Paoli, with 300 followers, embarked at Porto Vecchio for England. Pasquale Paoli was, and ever will be, the popular hero of the Corsicans. He fought their last battles for the national independence moulded their wild aspirations for liberty and self-government into a constitutional form administered affairs unselfishly, purely, justly encouraged industry, and checked outrage. He was a man of the people, one of themselves, and he never forgot it, nor have they.-Forester, pp. 165, 169. In his last letter to his friend Padovani, Paoli says, when reviewing his life with humility, I have lived long enough, and could it be granted to me to begin my life again, I would decline the boon, unless accompanied by the rational cognition of my past life, to correct the errors and follies that have attended it. One of the Corsican exiles announced his  terms, in a letter to his native country - London, June 2, 1807. It is true, alas, that the public papers are guilty of no error about the death of the poor General. He lay down on Monday, February 2, at half-past eight o'clock in the evening, and at half-past eleven o'clock on the night of the following Thursday he died in my arms. He bequeaths to the school at Corte, or to the university, an annual salary of £50 sterling for each of four professors and a new mastership to the school of Rostino, which is to be established at Morosaglia. He was buried on the 13th of February, at St. Pancras, where almost all Catholics are interred. His funeral must have cost nearly £500. About the middle of April last, Dr. Barnabi and I went to Westminster Abbey to find a place where we can erect a monument to him, containing his bust. -Gregorovius, p. 236. During Paoli's administration, there have been few laws made in Corsica. He mentioned one which he has found very efficacious in curbing the vindictive spirit of the Corsicans.@.@.@... There was among them a most dreadful species of revenge, called Vendetta trasversa, collateral revenge, which Petrus Cyrnaeus candidly acknowledges. It was this -If a man had received an injury, and could not find a proper opportunity to be revenged on his enemy personally, he revenged himself on one of his enemy's relations. So barbarous a practice was the source of innumerable assassinations. Paoli, knowing that the point of honour was everything to the Corsicans, opposed it to the progress of the blackest of crimes, fortified by long habits. He made a law, by which it was provided that this collateral revenge should not only be punished with death, as ordinary murther, but the memory of the offender should be disgraced for ever by a pillar of infamy. He also had it enacted that the same statute should extend to the violations of an oath of reconciliation, once made.-Boswell, p. 338. Mothers of families, whose husbands have been assassinated, preserve the dress of the deceased until their children grow up to manhood, and then show them the clothes tinged with the blood of their fathers, and exhort them to vengeance and in dispute with others the latter taunt them if they have not revenged themselves. Thus these unhappy children have no alternative than to live dishonoured, or to destroy the murderers of their parents, and they rush headlong into crime.-Benson. Many interesting particulars relating to criminal trials in Corsica are related by Benson but none more extraordinary than that of Signor Viterbi, who, himself a judge, was condemned to death in 1821 on an accusation of occasioning the assassination of some of the Frediani family, between which and his own an implacable animosity existed. Continually professing his innocence, and resolved not to suffer the disgrace of a public execution, Viterbi starved himself to death, and during the eighteen days which intervened between his first abstinence from food and his death, actually registered every change in his physical system with the utmost exactness, till, unable to write, he dictated minutely every sign of his approach to death, until his decease occurred. I am about to conclude my days with the peaceful death of the just, were among his last words. The few moments which I have to live are passing away placidly.@.@.@. The lamp is nearly extinguished. This was signed by his own hand, but he lingered two days longer, till the 20th December, 1821. His wishes regarding his burial are set forth minutely in a letter addressed to his wife a few days before he died in this singular document see Valery, vol. i., Appendix, note to p. 19 , Viterbi strictly charges his family to swear eternal hatred to his persecutors over his grave, while kneeling . The Vendetta is a barbarous justice and the Corsican sense of justice is acknowledged and praised even by ancient authors. Wo, then, to him who has slain a Corsican's brother or kinsman ! The deed is done, the murderer flies, in double fear, of justice which will punish murder, and of the deceased's kindred, who will avenge it. For no sooner has  become known than the fallen man's relations seize their arms and hasten to find the murderer. He has escaped to the bush, to the eternal snows, and is living with the wild sheep his track his lost. But the murderer has relatives-brothers, cousins, a father these know that they must answer for the deed with their blood. So they arm, and are on their guard. The life of those who suffer the Vendetta is extremely miserable. Whoever has cause to fear the Vendetta, shuts himself up in the house, and barricades the doors and windows, in which he leaves only loopholes open. The windows are stopped up with straw and mattresses, a proceeding which is called inceppar le fenestre. A Corsican house in the mountains, naturally high and narrow, almost like a tower, and with a very high flight of stone steps, is easily converted into a fortress. In this castle the Corsican always keeps on his guard, lest a ball through the windows should hit him. His kinsmen till the ground in arms they set a watch, and are not sure of a single step in the fields. Cases were told me in which Corsicans had not left their fortified dwellings for ten or fifteen years, and had passed that large portion of their life under siege and in constant fear of death. For Corsican revenge never sleeps, and the Corsican never forgets. To take no revenge is deemed dishonourable by the genuine Corsican the feeling of revenge is with them a natural senti@ment, a consecrated passion. It has in their songs become a worship, which is celebrated as a religion of natural affection.-@Gregorovius, p. 136. If any one delay to avenge himself@.... his relations make insinuations, and others slander him for not having avenged himself. The reproach of having borne an insult without revenging it, they call rimbeccare. The rimbecco was punished by old Genoese statutes as an incentive to murder,@@@..... It is the women especially who instigate the men to revenge, by songs of vengeance over the body of the slain, and by displaying his blood-stained shirt. The mother often fixes a bloody shred from the dress of the murdered man upon that of the son, as a constant reminder that he has to avenge himself.-@Gregorovius, p. 138. The Corsican bandit was not a thief or brigand, but, as his name implied, one banned or banished by the law. In the ancient statutes of the island all those are originally called banditti who are banished from the island because justice has failed to get them into her grasp. The bandit often led a life of many years in the wild fastnesses of the mountains over the Niolo and other pathless regions, and innumerable stories are told of their exploits. Many of these, as well of the vendetta, have been worked up into tales among them none more charming than that of Colomba, by M. Prosper Merimée. Others are Teodoro Poli, Gallocchio, Bracciomozzo renowned also are Giammarchi, who kept his ground in the bush for sixteen years Camillo Ornano, who maintained himself in the mountains for fourteen years and Joseph Antommarchi, who was bandit for seventeen years. The tales of the bandit life of Serafino, Arrighi, and Masoni, illustrate terribly and picturesquely the state of things so recently existing in Corsica. One can scarcely believe what the historian Filippini relates, that in his day, in thirty years 28,000 Corsicans were murdered in revenge ! According to the address of the Préfet of Corsica, before the assembled departmental general council, held in August, 1852, 4,300 murders had been perpetrated in Corsica since 1821, and this in an island of 250,000 inhabitants.-Gregorovius, p. 195. In their own country they are disunited but out of it most closely bound together, and their souls are prepared to meet death. They all pertinaciously hold commerce in contempt. They are eager to avenge an insult and it is esteemed disgraceful not to take revenge. When they cannot reach him who has committed a murder, they chastise one of his relations. Therefore, so soon as a murder has been perpetrated, all relatives of the murderer imme@diately take up arms and defend themselves. Petrus Cyrnaeus, Archdeacon of Aleria, writing in the fifteenth century. Edition of Peter of Corsica, Paris, 1834. -Quoted by Gregorovius, p, 195, Here every one s@ays@ Gregorovius, writing in 1853 carries double-barrelled guns, and I found half the villages under arms, like barbarians advancing against one  of things not different from that described by Valery in 1834 see page 45 . There is probably no other means of certainly putting down the blood-revenge, murder, and bandit life, than culture and colonisation, laying down roads through the interior, increase of commerce, and productiveness, these, with a general disarming of the country, would put a new life into Corsica, an island possessing the finest climate, fruitful districts, a position commanding the entire Mediterranean between Spain, France, Italy, and Africa, and splendid gulfs and roadsteads, which, moreover, is rich in forests, minerals, medicinal springs, and fruits, and is inhabited by a brave, bold people, capable of great things.-Gregoroviu@s, p. 150. Besides their ignorance, says Filippini, one cannot find words to express how great is the idleness of the islanders in tilling the ground. Even the finest plain in the world, of Aleria and Mariana, is desert, and they do not even chase the wild birds. But if they chance to become masters of a single Carlino, they imagine they shall never be in want again, and so they sink down into idleness and doing nothing, which adds Gregorovius strikingly describes the nature of the Corsican of the present day. Why do they not graft the countless wild oleasters ?-why not the chesnut ? But they do nothing, and therefore are they all poor..... Their hostilities and their hate, their want of good faith and love, are almost eternal hence that proverb becomes true which people are wont to say, ' the Corsican never forgives.' Filippini's book became nearly extinct, being suppressed as far as possible by the Genoese, of whom he had said in it many bitter truths but it must be allowed bitter truths were not wanting relating to his own countrymen. On the other hand, he gives them the praise for hospitality. I can truly say that there is no nation in the world by which foreigners are more cherished, nor where they can travel more securely for in every part of Corsica they find the choicest hospitality, without having to disburse a single quattrino for their sustenance. -Gregorovius, p. 194. Would that robbery and pillage, which are so ostentatiously spoken of as never committed by the Corsican, were the darkest sins laid to his account ! Most commonly, the hands of the Corsican bandit have been stained with innocent blood, shed recklessly, relentlessly, in private quarrels, often of the most frivolous description, and not in open fight, as in the feuds of the middle ages not in the heat of sudden passion, but by cool premeditated murder. So low, however, is the moral sense in Corsica with regard to the sanctity of human life, that these atrocities excite no horror, and the sympathies of vast numbers of the population are with the bandits. They are the heroes of the popular tales and canzoni one hears of them from one end of the island to the other, round the watch-fires of the shepherds on the mountains, in the remote paese, by the road-side. They are the tales of the nursery the Corsican child learns, with his Ave Maria, that it is rightful and glorious to take the life of any one who injures or offends him. To a passionate and imaginative people these tales of daring courage and wild adventure have an inconceivable charm though stained with blood, they are full of poetry and romance. Such stories have been eagerly seized upon by writers on Corsica they make excellent literary capital. Unfortunately, bandit@is@me forms so striking a feature in Corsican history, that it must necessarily occupy a conspicuous place in a faithful review of the genius and manners of the people. There are, doubtless, traits of heroism worthy of a better cause, and sometimes of a redeeming humanity, in the lives of the banditti but one regrets to find-though happily not in the works of the English travellers who have given accounts' @@of Corsica-a tendency to palliate so atrocious a system as blood-revenge. Vendetta, the name given it, has a romantic sound and it is treated as a sort of national institution, originating in high and laudable feelings, the injured sense of right, and the love of family so that with the glory shed around it by a false heroism it is almost raised to the rank of a  take blood for blood, not by the hand of public justice, but by the kinsman of the slain, was, we are reminded, a primitive custom, sanctioned by the usages of many nations, and even by the laws of Moses. We know, however, that among our Anglo-Saxon ancestors the laws humanely commuted this right of revenge for fines commensurate with the rank of the murdered person. And, while the Mosaic law forbade the acceptance of any pecuniary compensation for the crime of manslaughter, and expressly recognised the right of the avenger of blood to exact summary vengeance, it provided for even the murderer's security until he was brought to a fair trial. But Corsica, alas, has no Cities of Refuge, and examples, drawn from remote and barbarous times, can afford no apology for the inveterate cruelties of a people enjoying the light of modern civilisation, and professing the religion of the New Testament. The Vendetta is also represented as a kind of rude justice, to which the people were driven in the long ages of misrule, during which law was in abeyance or corruptly administered. There is, no doubt, much truth in this as applied to those times but the prodigious amount of human slaughter shown in the statistics just quoted, as well as the continuance of this atrocious system to the present day, long after the slight shadow of any pretence of legal injustice has vanished, seem to argue that the ferocity which has shed such rivers of blood, if not instinctive in the national character, at least found a soil in which it took deep root.-Forester, pp. 79-89. The insurmountable difficulty met with by those who govern in Corsica has arisen from the character of the people-their exaggeration of all things, their fanaticism in devotion, in their implacable revenge, and in their modes of thought. The most futile motives suffice to light up secular enmity. To the most susceptible self-love is joined the constancy of friendship and most exclusive family affection. To the aid of their passions and enter@prises they bring a tenacious will, a remarkable quickness of intelligence, and the endless resources of a dexterity of design never at fault. The richest inhabitants of each locality are at the head of rival and inimical parties all seek public places, which offer them the double advantage of protecting friends or relations and humiliating enemies-intrigues without end. There were numerous edicts of Genoese governors and French kings, but always ineffectual, more or less edicts against carrying arms, and against banditism in 1560 and against collateral revenge in the years 1548, 1560, 1569, 1573, 1768, 1769, 1770, 1778, and 1811, laws-all of the severest nature-were made against carrying arms and against banditism. It results from these documents that successive administrations in Corsica have many times endeavoured to disarm the people, and to put an end to the murders which have filled this unhappy country with blood yet, spite of the rigour of the edicts, the same crimes are reproduced for three centuries with more or less intensity, according to the degree of power and energy of the governments. The number of murders for between 1821 and 1850 was 4,319. The Due d'Orleans, after a tour in Corsica, thus expressed himself on the character and faults of the Corsicans, in a letter addressed to M. Dupin, Nov. 18, 1835 - In Corsica my task has been an easy one. The remedy for the social misfortune which torments this country is apparent at the first glance. Perseverance and firmness..... will result in overcoming those qualities, which are the only obstacle to all amelioration. Let the Corsican be no longer armed let the lower grade of functionaries be chosen from Con@tinentals cease to encourage civil war and contempt of the laws let the lazy, sluggish, but not idle population learn wants, which will force it to work more than it does at present, when chesnuts picked up in the woods are all that is necessary to existence, and the shade of trees for shelter. Let all this be accomplished by degrees, and the condition of Corsica will be changed. -Grandchamps, p. 52. Some of the best pages of information on the hateful condition of Vendetta and Banditism are to be found in Grandchamps, at pp. 60 to 80. A population which has foi many centuries, indeed, until quite recently, lived in a state  warfare against foreign tyranny and oppression cannot all at once calm down to the social condition of countries that have for centuries ceased to fight for their existence. Thus is explained the exceptional social condition that, until very recently, reigned in Corsica. Many Corsicans, in those days, spent years of their life barricaded in their houses, which they durst not leave for fear of their pursuers. Myself made the acquaintance, at Isola Rossa, of a gentleman, one of the leading proprietors of the island ? who, a long while ago, actually lived for two years in the upper flat of a house in that town to avoid the Vendetta, c. A few years ago 1854 very extreme measures were adopted..... Two laws were passed by the French Chambers. By the one the entire population was disarmed.@.@.@. By the other law, all persons harbouring or concealing outlaws are liable to imprisonment.-Bennet, pp. 232, 240,  character of the Corsican dirges is to be understood from the nation's rites with regard to the dead, which are very ancient..... There is something dark and striking in the fact, that the most favourite poetry of the Corsicans is the poetry of death, and that they compose and sing almost exclusively in the intoxication of grief. When death has entered a house, the relations stand round the bed of the deceased, and raise a cry of lamentation. The body is now laid on a table, called the tola, against the wall they watch and lament beside the tola often the whole night through..... But the grand lamentation begins on the early morning before the funeral, when the body is laid on the coffin, and before the funeral friars come to lift the bier. To the funeral come friends and relatives from all the neighbouring villages, and the assembled throng is called the corteo, or the scirrata andare alia scirrata they say in Corsica, where the women go in procession to the house of mourning if the deceased has been slain, they say andare alia gridata, to go to the howling. As soon as the chorus enters the house the lamenters greet the mourners, c., c. they make a circle, the cerchio or caracollo round the tola, and perform their evolutions around the deceased, howling the while, expanding the circle, or closing it again, and always with a cry of lamentation and the wildest tokens of grief.@.@.@.@.@.@.@. Among the mountains far in the interior these ceremonies exist in the old heathen force, resembling the funeral dances of Sardinia. The dancing, lamenting, and singing, are performed by women only, who, with hair dishevelled and shed wildly over their breasts, with eyes that dart fire, with black mantles flying, execute evolutions, utter a howl of lamentation, strike the flat of their hands together, beat their breasts, weep, sob, cast them@selves down by the tola, c., c.@.@.@. Suddenly one woman springs up from the circle and strikes up a song or vocero to the deceased, like an inspired seer. She delivers the song in recitative, strophe by strophe, and every strophe ends with a wo ! wo ! wo ! c., c.@.@.@. It is not always the usual chorus-singers that sing, but frequently the relatives of the dead, the mother, wife, and especially the sisters..... moreover the form of the dirges is constant, so that when affliction comes, the Corsican woman must have already had frequent practice in the dirges, which go from mouth to mouth, as other songs with us. Thus, an atmosphere of gloom hangs constantly over men's heads here. When Corsican girls sit together, they are sure to strike up a lament, as if they wished to rehearse for the heart-lament which, perhaps, each of them may have to sing at the tola of a brother, a husband, or a child..... The voceri themselves may be divided into two classes-the gentler complaint on the death of a person deceased, or the wild, fearful song of revenge..... I know no example in the whole course of popular poetry, in which the horrible and fearful has, to such a degree, become the subject matter of the popular song and here is displayed the wonderful power of poetry in ge@neral, which is able to mitigate even the most terrible with an air of melancholy beauty..... The Corsican nature is also in the highest degree capable of the tenderest sentiments the ineffable guilelessness and touching native simplicity of many voceri remove us quite from our world to the world of children, shepherds, and patriarchs.-@Gregorovius, pp. 279,  I have selected one out of the many affecting voceri published in Gregorovius, to give an idea of the dialect in which most are written. Some of these voceri are extremely sad and touching, esp ecially-Of Nunziola, on the death of her husband. Of a girl, on the death of her two brothers, both slain in one day. Of a herdswoman of Talavo, on the death of her husband. Of a sister, on the death of her brother, the Bandit Canino. On the death of Romana, daughter of Daviola Danesi, of Luani c. OF A MAIDEN OVER THE BODY OF HER MURDERED  partu dalle Calanche, Circa quattr'ore di notte Mi ne falgu cu la teda A circà per tutte l'orte, Per travellu la mio vabu Ma li avianu datu morte. @@morte. Cullatevene più in su, Chi truvarete a Matteju Perchè questu e lu mio vabu, E l'aghiu da pienghie eju. Via, pigliatemi a scuzzale, La cazzola e lu martellu, Non ci vulete andà, vabu ? A travaglia a San Marcellu ? Tombu en'hanu lu mio vabu, E feritu u mio fratellu. Or cereatemi e trisore, E qui prestu ne venite Vogliu tondemi i capelli Per lupalli le ferite Chi di lu sangue di mio vabu N'achiu carcu le mio dite.@ From Calanche I am come Midnight had just come and fled, When by torchlight in the gardens I did seek with anxious tread Where my father was delaying-In his blood I found him dead. girl enters, seeking a kinsman also slain. Further up-hill thou must climb, For there lies Mattéo slain But this is my father here, Mine 'tis for him to complain. Take his apron and his hammer, And his trowel homeward bear Wilt thou not to San Marcello, Father, to thy work repair ? They have my own father slain, Wounded, too, my brother dear. Go and seek a pair of scissors, Bring it me, and be not slow I would cut a lock of hair, And with it stanch the blood's fast flow For my fingers are defiled, With the blood a reddened row. Di lu vostro sangue, o vabu, Bogliu tinghiemi un mandile Lu mi vogliu mette a collu Quandu avrachiu oziu di ride. Eo collu per le Calanche Falgu per la Santa Croce, Sempre chiamanduvi, vabu Rispunditemi una voce ! Mi l'hanu crucifissata Cume Ghesù Cristu in croce.  gore, Which I'll wear when I have leisure Mirth and laughter out to pour. To Calanche I will bring thee, To the Church of Holy Cross, Ever calling thee my father ! Answer with thy loved voice ! They have crucified my father Like the Christ upon the cross ! THE BOM@BYX PROCES@SIONIS. @s@ce p. 138. Some information on the very curious habits of the larva or caterpillar of the Bombyx processionis is to be found in Kirby and Spence's Entomology,@@ vol. ii., pp. 18, 23. The two following letters relating to the same insects appeared in the Magazine entitled Land and Water -SIR,-The pine procession caterpillar Bombyx processionis , is almost as much to be dreaded as the scorpion of the South. It lives in large colonies under a common  the early stage. When they are full fed, however, they sally forth in procession, one following the other in military order, and woe betide the unlucky man who breaks their ranks. Mr. Jeston, British chaplain at Kissengen, told me that he was once attacked by a colony of these insects, from incautiously touching one of their number. He immediately felt a severe pain in his arm, and was dangerously ill for some days, and after the lapse of eight years continued to feel occasional inflammation and pain in the part over which the insects had crawled. It is not likely that they had a malicious intent, but that their sharp hairs being broken off by friction, entered the skin and occasioned this violent irritation. This is in accordance with the common theory, but some spirits of wine in which a number of these caterpillars had been preserved having a most irritating effect on the skin, I think it must have some poisonous secretion.@-Land a@nd Water, Feb. 8, 1868. SIR,-I send for exhibition in the office a dozen specimens of the caterpillar of Bombyx processionis, preserved in spirits. The interesting account of the insect by Mr. Groom-Napier seems to me to be perfectly accurate, except that I think he has been led by his reverend informant a little to over-estimate the dangerous qualities of the insect. I have known of two authentic instances of actual injury. In one case a caterpillar falling from a tree upon the neck of a lady, caused considerable irritation for the moment, and afterwards raised blisters. Red marks, with a sensation of heat in the part touched, lasted for several days. In the other case, an English gentleman not long resident in this country, a zealous, but not a very well-informed entomologist, took up a handful of the caterpillars for inspection, and felt the effects for a week afterwards in a burning sensation in the skin of his hands. The greatest harm they do is to the very extensive pine forests in this part of Portugal. It is not too much to say that every hundredth tree-in some places a much greater proportion-contains on its topmost shoot the web, accurately described by Mr. Groom-Napier, in which the caterpillar protects itself while in the pupa state from birds, or perhaps frdm wind, rain, and scorching sun-heat. The trees selected are generally young ones, and much stunting of growth and curvature of trunk arise from the eating out of the crown of the tree by the hungry broods of caterpillars. I have not been long enough in this country to give much information upon the habits of the insect. I have never seen it either in the developed or in the nympha state, but I have no doubt that the great bunches of pine leaves which I very frequently observe high up in the trees, and which, when I examined some last autumn, contained remnants of the dried skins of the caterpillars, are the untenanted, gregariously formed cocoons of the Bo@mbyx processionis. Mr. Groom-Napier is quite correct in supposing that this poisonous insect has no malicious intent. It stings when it is handled not unless. It is even, I think, more torpid than most other caterpillars. The processions are very curious, and as I do not remember to have seen them described, it may interest your readers to hear something about them. A day or two ago, while shooting in the pine woods, I came upon a procession of thirty-five of these caterpillars, slowly moving in a sinuous or snake-like course, and in strict Indian tile, the head of each close to the tail of his preceder, so close, indeed, as to make me think they were in actual contact till I touched one to see. I then moved one caterpillar gently out of his place in the line, and watched the result. The whole procession stood still, and while I waited-about five minutes-the straggler had not taken his vacated place in the line, nor had the procession resumed its march. This telegraphing both to the van and to the rear of some disturbance in the line of march, strikes me as very singular. An accident or disturbance of this sort would seem to disorganise the whole band. I once found a procession of about thirty caterpillars in a lane, the first three or four of which had been trodden upon and killed, and though this must have happened some hours before, for their bodies were dried up by the sun, the others had not stirred from the spot, the line being still perfectly preserved. I am quite disposed to agree with your correspondent that the irritating effect on the skin does not arise merely from the wounds caused by the numerous needle-like hairs of the caterpillars, but that it resides in some poisonous excretion which these hairs convey with them into the wounds they make. Did the irritation only result from the  of the hairs, we should expect it to be no greater than what is caused by handling some species of aloe, or by touching the hairy skin of a prickly pear. In either case the irritation is a mere trifle compared to the inflammation set up by the contact of Bombyx processionis. So convinced am I of the presence, on or in the caterpillar itself, of some acrid principle, capable of raising blisters on the skin, that it has more than once occurred to me, looking to the great abundance of the insects in this country, whether it might not be possible to substitute the dried and powdered bodies of this caterpillar for the commonly used Cantharis vesicatoria, whose tendency to produce strangury and other derangements is so great an objection to its employment in medicine. I should be glad to send the insects to any one desirous of experimenting, but I would rather not be the corpus vile on whom to make those experiments. I have noticed these insects, or an allied species, in Italy, and I think in Greece and Turkey but I believe, subject to correction from better entomologists than myself, that Bombyx processionis is not a native of Great Britain. I cannot find the insect described in Messrs. Westwood and Humphrey's great work, and I hope this destructive species may never find its way to our country.-EXSUL Oporto , Land and Water, March 7, 
 undebased by praise of meaner things, That ere through age or woe I shed my wings I may record thy worth with honour due, In verse as musical as thou art true, And that immortalizes whom it sings -But thou hast little need. Where is a book By seraphs writ with beams of heavenly light, On which the eyes of God not rarely look, A chronicle of actions just and bright@-There all thy deeds, my faithful Mary, shine And since thou own'st that praise, I spare thee mine. -@Cowper. CCLXXVIII. A WISH. MINE be a cot beside the hill A bee-hive's hum shall soothe my ear A willowy brook, that turns a mill, With many a fall shall linger near. The swallow, oft, beneath my thatch Shall twitter from her clay-built nest Oft shall the pilgrim lift the latch, And share my meal a welcome guest. Around my ivied porch shall spring Each fragrant flower that drinks the dew And Lucy, at her wheel, shall sing In russet-gown and apron blue. The village-church among the trees, Where first our marriage-vows were given, With merry peals shall swell the breeze And point with taper spire to Heaven. -@Roge
 turned backe, and called for a capcase which lay in the Warehouse. The seruant could not find the key by any meanes. Whereupon hee called to haue the locke broke open. Which they within hearing, opened the doore of their owne accord. So soone as her husband espied her in that place, with admiration he said O passion of my heart, what doe you here ? what, you two that cannot abide one another ? what make you so close together ? is your chiding and ray@ling, brabling, and braiding, come to this ? O what dissemblers are these ! Why, my Oast, qd. Cutbert, what need you take the matter so hot ? I gaue a Cheese to my Country-man Hodgekins, to lay vp, and deliuered it to your wife to be keept and then is it not reason, that she should come and seeke me my Cheese ? O, quoth the old man, belike the dore was lockt, because the Cheese should not run away. The doore said his wife vnknowne to vs clapt to it selfe, and hauing a spring locke, was presently fast. Well, huswife, qd. he, I will giue you as much credit as a Crocadile, but as for your companion, I will teach him to come hither to looke Cheeses. And with that he caused his men to take him pre-sently, and to bind him hand and foot. Which being done, they drew him vp in a basket into the smoky louer of the hall, and there they did let him hang all that night, euen till the next day dinner time, when he should haue beene at the banquet with the Princes for neither Hodgekins nor Martin could intreat their inflamed Oast to let him down
 not a quarter of that good cheare. The foule euill take you all, I was fully prouided to giue the gallowes a boxe on the eare, and now God knowes when I shall be in so good a minde againe and so he with the rest of his companions departed. When Hodgekins saw, that not@withstanding their theeuery, how they flowted at their lenity, he was much mooued in minde and as he stood in his dumps chewing his cud, making his dinner with a dish of melancholy, a gray Fryar reuerently saluted him in this sort All haile, good-man Hodgekins, happinesse and health be euer with you, and to all suppressors of lewd liuers, God send euerlasting ioyes. I am sorry good-man Hodgekins, that the great pri-uiledge which our King gaue to this towne, comes to no greater purpose better farre had it beene that it had neuer beene granted, then so lightly regarded the towne hath suffered through their owne peeuishnesse, an euerlasting reproch this day, onely because foolish pitty hath hindred Justice. Consider, that compassion is not to be had vpon theeues and robbers pity onely appertaineth to the vertuous sort, who are ouerwhelmed with the waues of misery and mischance. What great cause of boldnesse haue you giuen to bad liuers, by letting these fellowes thus to escape, and how shall you now keepe your goods in safety, seeing you fulfill not the Law which should be your defence ? neuer thinke that theeues will make any conscience to carry away your goods, when OF 
 a Turke said Miles so went he forth as if he would have gone to pray privately, but it was for no-thing but to prey upon his blacke pudding that pulled he out, for it was halfe roasted with the heate and fell to it lustily but he was deceived, for having put one end in his mouth, he could neither get it out againe nor bite it off, so that hee stamped out for helpe his mais-ter hearing him, came and finding him in that manner, tooke hold of the other end of the pudding, and led him to the hall, and shewed him to all the schollers, saying see here my good friends and fellow students what a devout man my servant Miles is, he loveth not to break a fast day, witnesse this pudding that his con-science will not let him swallow I will have him to he an example for you all, then tyed hee him to a window by the end of the pudding, where poore Miles stood like a beare tyed by the nose to a stake, and indured many floutes and mockes at night his maister released him from his penance Miles was glad of it, and did vow never to breake more fast dayes whilst that he lived. How Fryer Bacon saved a Gentleman that had given himselfe to the Devill. IN Oxfordshire there lived a gentleman, that had through his riotous expences wasted a faire inheritance that was left him by his father after which hee grew so poore, that he had not wherwith to buy himselfe so much bread as would mainteine his miserable life the me-mory of his former state that hee had lived in, and t
 wondred, than the emperour gadred and assembled all the lordes barons askinge of them counsell, saynge thus, My lordes, gyue me good counseyl that we may withstande this Hethen dogges whiche haue layde syege here to our cyte, wherefore I take grete thought for they kepe all my lande under theyr subieccyon and they wyll brynge us to confusyon yf that God out of his endles mercy helpe us not, wherfore I praye you euerychone to go fyght with them with all our power and myght and dryue them awaye than answered the lordesandknyghtsall with oneassentsaynge, Souerayne lorde your counseyl is good and wyse, wherefore we be all ready to goo with you and gyue them batayle and defende our ryght bothe lande and cyte. The emperour thanked them of this answere and was glad therof, and made proclamacyon throughout all his landes and cytees that eury man olde and younge that were able to bere armes sholde make them redy to fyght ayenst theyr moost cruell enmyes the Sarasyns which were come into his lande, and contynent whan this proclamation was done amonge the comyns euery man was wyllynge and redy to go with themperour to fyght and defende theyr ryght, and so they went forth in a fayre ordynaunce with themperour to fyght upon theyr mortall enmyes the Hethen dogges. And for all that themperour had moche mo people than the seneschall, yet the seneshall had wonne the felde, hadde not God of his grace sente theder Robert to resyste and helpe the Romaynes in theyr grete necessyt
CHAPTER VII. LIFE ON SHIPBOARD. A Sudden Sunset.@-@A Mysterious Evening.-@Sleeping on Deck.-@The Ladies' Reserva-tion.@-@The Doctor's Camping-ground.@@@-Morning Ritual.@-@Fruit and Salt-water Baths.@-@Guadeloupe.-@The Saints.@-@Marie Galante.@-@Dominica. AFTER a stay of twelve hours at Antigua the Barracouta steamed out of the harbor of St. John's as the sun was setting, and, taking a southerly course, resumed her voyage. The air was mild and balmy, the sky cloudless, the atmosphere remarkably transparent we could see distinctly the mountain of St. Kitt's and the pyramid of Nevis, far away in the west, across sixty miles of intervening ocean, seem-ingly joined together, showing above the horizon in purple silhouette against a sky of pale, opalescent tints. Rugged Montserrat was also in plain sight, forty miles to the south of Nevis and between the two, Redonda, misty and golden, like Kubla Khan's pleasure-dome, floated midway in the waves. Ahead of us, leagues away in the south, we were aware of Guadeloupe@-@dimly shadowed forth between sight and imagination@-@a great mountain in cloudland. We barely had time to repeat the names of the islands, in their order, before they faded from our sight. Day was done. Done, and done with ! It was difficult to realize that the sun had gone down in the fore-ordained, natural way. It went out, so to speak, suddenly, unex-pectedly as if something was wrong with the meter, or the wires had got crossed it did not appear to sink beneath the waves, but to plunge into them, so that one almost expected to see a great splash, and, by the obvious association of absurd ideas, was reminded 
 on some neighbouring mountain's brow He stops, and turns his eyes below There, melting at the well-known view, Drops a last tear, and bids adieu So I, thus doomed from thee to part Gay Queen of Fancy and of Art, Reluctant move, with doubtful mind, Oft stop, and often look behind. Companion of my tender age, Serenely gay, and sweetly sage, How blithesome were we wont to rove By verdant hill, or shady grove, Where fervent bees with humming voice Around the honeyed oak rejoice, And aged elms with awful bend In long cathedral walks extend ! Lulled by the lapse of gliding floods, Cheered by the warbling of the woods, How blest my days, my thoughts how free, In sweet society with thee ! Then all was joyous, all was young, And years unheeded rolled along. But now the pleasing dream is o'er, These scenes must charm me now no more Lost to the fields, and torn from you,@-Farewell ! a long, a last adieu ! Me wrangling courts, and stubborn Law, To smoke and crowds and cities draw There selfish faction rules the day, And pride and avarice throng the way Diseases taint the murk@y air, And midnight conflagrations glare. Loose revelry and riot bold In frighted streets their orgies hol
 EARLY LOVE. AH, I remember well@-@and how can I But evermore remember well ?@-@when first Our flame began, when scarce we knew what was The flame we felt when as we sat and sighed And looked upon each other, and conceived Not what we ailed, yet something we did ail, And yet were well, and yet we were not well, And what was our disease we could not tell. Then would we kiss, then sigh, then look and thus In that first garden of our simpleness We spent our childhood. But when years began To reap the fruit of knowledge ah, how then Would she with sterner looks, with graver brow, Check my presumption and my forwardness ! Yet still would give me flowers, still would show What she would have me, yet not have me know ! 1615. -@Daniel. XCVIII. SHALL I, WASTING IN DESPAIR.† SHALL I, wasting in despair, Die because a woman's fair ? Or make pale my cheeks with care 'Cause another's rosy are ? Be she fairer than the day Or the flowery meads in May@-If she think not well of me, What care I how fair she be ? From Hymen's Triumph, a Pastoral Tragi-Comedy@. † This is from the original edition of Wither's Fidelia, 1615 of which there is a copy in the Bodleian Library vide Ward's English Poets, vol. ii
 and re-form the column. Away it sped, lessening to view, until it appeared like@ a mysterious flying serpent, such as ancient mariners are said often to have seen hovering in mid-air it dwindled in the distance, for a moment floated over the horizon like a film of cloud then the jaws of darkness devoured it up. At dark Long Branch was on our starboard quarter, distant eight or ten miles in the west. At bedtime Barnegat Light, just abeam, winked slyly at us, as if up to our little game and entirely approving of it, by the way of sailing away in quest of summer long before the time of the singing of birds had come to our Northern homes. The next morning we were crossing the river in the ocean, as Maury calls the Gulf Stream in his delightful book The Physical Geography of the Sea , a book that deserves to be well-thumbed by all sea-going people, whether they be shipped as sailor-men before, or passengers behind the mast. The air was mild and spring-like, the sky, however, still threatened storm frequent rain-squalls drove us to seek shelter, but not for long at a time, in the deck-cabin, or those who found favor in the sight of our captain, into his snug official quarters under the pilot-bridge. All day the gulls that had followed us throughout the previous night hovered in our wake, uttering shrill, complaining cries. These restless beings bore us company until we came to quieter waters, where we found warmer weather and fairer skies then, like the evil voices that haunted Bunyan's Pilgrim, they went back and came no farther. When the stormy birds forsook us we were taken under the protection of other seafowl, called by sailors bo'suns, for the reason their long tail-feathers bear a fancied resemblance to marlin-spikes. Landsmen know these as man-o'-war birds, of all winged creatures the most graceful, flying so easily, wafted with so little effort from wave to cloud that one is never tired of watching them, forever cir-cling and poising in mid-air. These attendant spirits accompanied us for days, until we reached the Caribbean Islands, and thence, when we were northward bound, escorted us back again to that place b
 A FAREWELL TO THE VANITIES OF THE WORLD. FAREWELL, ye gilded follies, pleasing troubles Farewell, ye honoured rags, ye glorious bubbles Fame's but a hollow echo gold pure clay Honour the darling but of one short day. Beauty the eye's idol, but a damasked skin State but a golden prison to live in, And torture free-born minds embroidered trains Merely but pageants for proud swelling veins And blood allied to greatness is alone Inherited, not purchased nor our own Fame, honour, beauty, state, train, blood and birth, Are but the fading blossoms of the earth. I would be great, but that the sun doth still Level his rays against the rising hill I would be high, but see the proudest oak Most subject to the rending thunder-stroke I would be rich, but see men, too unkind, Dig in the bowels of the richest mind I would be wise, but that I often see The fox suspected, whilst the ass goes free I would be fair, but see the fair and proud, Like the bright sun, oft setting in a cloud I would be poor, but know the humble grass Still trampled on by each unworthy ass Rich hated wise suspected scorned if poor Great feared fair tempted high still envied  verses have been attributed to Raleigh, Donne, and others they are printed in Walton's Complete Angler, with the note ' some say written by Sir Harry Wotton 
 that until I had been properly doctored by the barber of Basse-terre who is, be it said, as well known to voyagers among the Carib-bean Islands as is the Barber of Seville to opera-goers, or the Floren-tine barber to the readers of Romola I had no satisfactory reasons or valid pretext for pretending that I had ever been artistically dealt with from a correct tonsorial point of view. The barber of Basse-terre who, by the way, followed the sea and his profession for many years on board H. M. S. Niobe, the flagship of the British Navy on the West Indian station is also a gatherer and circulator of news, a man of opinions, and possessed of the courage of the same, and is much sought after by those who wish to keep themselves au courant of Kittefonian affairs. For these reasons, when I took my seat in his chair, I felt as if I had been invited by one of the old masters to sit for my portrait. Taking heart of grace, I committed myself into his care and keeping, feeling well assured that in the hands of a master workman not a hair of my head would take any harm. When I had received the finishing touches, and was loosed from the drapery in which I had been enveloped like a statue previous to the ceremonies attending its unveiling, I was perfumed, puffed, and powdered, so fresh and rosy-looking as to resemble a highly colored fashion-plate present-ment of my former unadorned self. I was afraid to smile lest I should muss my hair, or perchance unwittingly disturb the exceedingly nice, but, I must say, somewhat conventional and slick, arrangement of my beard and mustache. I returned to the Barracouta about noon to luncheon others of the party remained on shore, sojourning during the heat of the day at a hotel of which they afterward gave a most favorable account, saying that its larder was well stocked with toothsome kickshaws, that in particular there was a most meritorious pepper-pot but each and all of them dwelt with enthusiastic emphasis on the skill displayed by Boniface in swizzling swizzles with his swizzle-stick. What a pepper-pot is, and, more particularly, what a swizzle is, how and of what in-gredients compounded, why so called, with what ceremonies and o
 it is most vnhappy to be fortunate and by this misfortune came my fall. Was euer good Lady brought to this extremity ? What is become of my rare Jewels, my rich aray, my sumptuous fare, my waiting seruants, my many friends, and all my vaine pleasures ? my pleasure is banisht by displeasure, my friends fled like foes, my seruants gone, my feasting turned to fast-ing, my rich array consumed to ragges, and my iewels decke out my chiefest enemies therefore of all things the meanest state is best, pouerty with surety, is better than honour mixed with feare seeing God hath allotted me to this misery of life, I will frame my heart to em-brace humility, and carry a mind answerable to my mis-fortunes, fie on this vaine title of Ladiship, how little doth it auaile the distressed ? No, no, I must therefore forget my birth and parentage, and think no more on my fathers house, where I was wont to bee serued, now will I learne to serue, and plaine Meg shall be my name, good Lord grant I may get a good seruice, nay any ser-uice shall serue, where I may haue meat, drinke, and apparell. She had no sooner spoken these words, but she spied a couple of maidens more comming towards her who were going to the faire and bidding her good morrow, asked her if she went to the faire. Yea @mary qd. she I am a poor mans child that is out of seruice, and I heare that at the Statute, folkes doe come of pur-pose to hire seruants. True it is, said the Maidens, and thither goe we for the same purpose, and would be glad of your company. With a good will, and I am rig
 first dark day of nothingness, The last of danger and distress Before decay's effacing fingers Have swept the lines where beauty lingers , And marked the mild angelic air, The rapture of repose that's there, The fixed yet tender traits that streak The languor of the placid cheek, And, but for that sad shrouded eye, That fires not, wins not, weeps not now And, but for that chill changeless brow, Where cold obstruction's apathy Appals the gazing mourner's heart, As if to him it could impart The doom he dreads yet dwells upon Yes, but for these, and these alone, Some moments, aye, one treacherous hour, He still might doubt the tyrant's power So fair, so calm, so softly sealed, The first, last look by death revealed @! Such is the aspect of this shore 'Tis Greece, but living Greece no more ! So coldly sweet, so deadly fair, We start for soul is wanting there. Hers is the loveliness in death, That parts not quite with parting breath But beauty with that fearful bloom, That hue which haunts it to the tomb, Expression's last receding ray, A gilded halo hovering round decay, The farewell beam of feeling past away ! Spark of that flame, perchance of heavenly birth, Which gleams, but warms no more its cherished ear
 responsive voice was heard at every close And Hope enchanted smiled, and waved her golden hair. And longer had she sung -@but, with a frown, Revenge impatient rose He threw his blood-stained sword in thunder down, And, with a withering look, The war-denouncing trumpet took, And blew a blast so loud and dread, Were ne'er prophetic sounds so full of woe ! And, ever and anon, he beat The doubling drum with furious heat And though sometimes, each dreary pause between, Dejected Pity at his side, Her soul-subduing voice applied, Yet still he kept his wild unaltered mien, While each strained ball of sight seemed bursting from his head. Thy numbers, Jealousy, to nought were fixed Sad proof of thy distressful state ! Of differing themes the veering song was mixed And now it courted Love, now raving called on Hate. With eyes upraised, as one inspired, Pale Melancholy sat retired, And, from her wild sequestered seat, In notes by distance made more sweet, Poured through the mellow horn her pensive soul. And dashing soft from rocks around, Bubbling runnels joined the sound Through glades and glooms the mingled measure stole Or, o'er some haunted stream, with fond delay, Round a holy calm diffusing, Love of peace, and lonely musing, In hollow murmurs died awa
 after the night-steeds, leaving their moon-loved maze. But see, the Virgin blest Hath laid her Babe to rest Time is, our tedious song should here have ending Heaven's youngest teemèd star Hath fixed her polished car, Her sleeping Lord with handmaid lamp attending And all about the courtly stable Bright-harnessed angels sit in order serviceable. -Milton. CXVI. ON SHAKSPERE. WHAT needs my Shakespeare for his honoured bones The labour of an age in pilèd stones, Or that his hallowed reliques should be hid Under a star-y@pointing pyramid ? Dear son of memory, great heir of fame, What need'st thou such weak witness of thy name ? Thou in our wonder and astonishment Hast built thyself a life-long monument. For whilst to the shame of slow-endeavouring art Thy easy numbers flow, and that each heart Hath from the leaves of thy unvalued book Those Delphic lines with deep impression took, Then thou our fancy of itself bereaving, Dost make us marble with too much conceiving And so sepúlchered in such pomp dost lie, That kings for such a tomb would wish to die.  This was written in 1630, but first appeared in the Shakspere Folio of 1632, entitled ' An Epitaph on the admirable Dramatick Poet, W. Shakespeare 
BOOK II. MILTON TO THE DEATH OF DRYDEN. SECTION I. 1625-1649 . CXIII. ON THE DEATH OF A FAIR INFANT, DYING OF A COUGH. O FAIREST flower, no sooner blown but blasted, Soft silken primrose fading timelessly, Summer's chief honour, if thou hadst outlasted Bleak Winter's force that made thy blossom dry For he, being amorous on that lovely dye That did thy cheek envermeil, thought to kiss, But killed, alas ! and then bewailed his fatal bliss. Yet can I not persuade me thou art dead, Or that thy corse corrupts in earth's dark womb, Or that thy beauties lie in wormy bed, Hid from the world in a low-delvèd tomb Could Heaven for pity thee so strictly doom ? Oh no ! for something in thy face did shine Above Mortality, that showed thou wast divine. Resolve me then, O Soul most surely blest, If so it be that thou these plaints dost hear, Tell me, bright spirit, where'er thou hoverest, Whether above that high first-moving sphere, Or in the Elysian fields if such there were , Written in 1625, when Milton was seventeen. The infant was the daughter of his sister, Mr@s. Philips. These are stanzas 1, 5, 6, 10, and 11 out of eleven. It was first published in 167
 THE EXPULSION FROM PARADISE. IN either hand the hastening Angel caught Our lingering parents, and to the eastern gate Led them direct, and down the cliff as fast To the subjected plain then disappeared. They, looking back, all the eastern side beheld Of Paradise, so late their happy seat, Waved over by that flaming brand the gate With dreadful faces thronged and fiery arms. Some natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon The world was all before them, where to choose Their place of rest, and Providence their guide. They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow, Through Eden took their solitary way. -@Paradise Lost, xii. 637-649. CLXXIX. FROM THE ELEGY ON COWLEY. OLD Chaucer, like the morning-star, To us discovers day from far His light those mists and clouds dissolved Which our dark nation long involved But he descending to the shades, Darkness again the age invades. Next, like Aurora, Spenser rose Whose purple blush the day foreshows. The other three, with his own fires, Phoebus, the poet's god, inspires By Shakespeare's, Jonson's, Fletcher's lines Our stage's lustre Rome's outshines. These poets near our princes sleep, And in one grave their mansion kee
 for he was a scholar once admired For wondrous knowledge in our German schools, We'll give his mangled limbs due burial And all the students, clothed in mourning black, Shall wait upon his heavy funeral. Chorus. Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight, And burned is Apollo's laurel bough That sometime grew within this learnèd man. Faustus is gone ! Regard his hellish fall, Whose fiendful fortune may exhort the wise Only to wonder at unlawful things Whose deepness doth entice such forward wits To practise more than heavenly power permits. -@Marlowe's Faustus. XXIV. HOPE DEFERRED.† FULL little knowest thou, that hast not tried, What hell it is in suing long to bide To lose good days, that might be better spent, To waste long nights in pensive discontent To speed to-day, to be put back to-morrow, To feed on hope, to pine with fear and sorrow To have thy Prince's grace, yet want her peers', To have thy asking, yet wait many years To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares, To eat thy heart through comfortless despairs To fawn, to crouch, to wait, to ride, to run, To spend, to give, to want, to be undone. How applicable these three lines are to the life and work of Mar-lowe himself. From Mother Hubbard's Tale, out of 1388 lines. This was first printed in 1591, but in the Dedication Spenser describes it as com-posed in the raw conceit of his yout
THOMAS OF READING. Thomas of Reading, or the Sixe Worthie Yeomen of the West, is the production of Thomas Deloney, a famous ballad maker in his day, in which latter character he appears to have drawn upon him-self the indignation of Kemp, one of the original actors of Shakspeare . Kemp is celebrated for his miraculous morris-dance, performed in nine days from London to Norwich but this feat having been misre-presented in the popular ballads, Kemp thus remon-strates against our author. I have made a priuie search what priuate jig-monger of your jolly num- ber had been the author of these abhominable ballets written of me. I was told it was the great ballade-maker, T. D. or Thomas Deloney, chro- nicler of the memorable Lives of the '@Six Yeomen of the West,' '@Jack of Newberry,' 'the Gentle Craft,' and such like honest men, omitted by Stowe, Hollinshed, Grafton, Hall, Froysart, and the rest of those well-deserving writers. See Kemp's Nine Dales Wonder performed in a Daunce from @London to Norwich, edited by the Rev. Alex. Dyce for the Camden Societ
 division of the year is into the wet and dry seasons, though rain falls at all times of the year. The difference is, that a much greater quantity falls in the rainy or hurricane season, as it is more commonly called beginning in the latter part of July and ending in October , than at any period of the year. By the register kept in the garrison at Morne Bruce, it appears that from April, 1846, to April, 1847, sixty-eight inches of rain fell, and during the succeeding year seventy-two inches. '@Vegetation is hurried on with extraordinary rapidity by the heat and light and continual supply of moisture but decay is equally rapid. In these countries, indeed, the destructive process that is in operation everywhere goes on with an energy and activity unknown in temperate climates. The heavy rains, follow@ed by intense heat and high winds, act upon the cliffs, and continually detach stones and large fragments of the rock. Where the roads lead under these cliffs, it is dangerous to pass during or after heavy rain. Landslips are constantly happen-ing in all parts of the island. The mountain-slopes are washed by the floods of rain in the hurricane season, and the clear, sparkling stream-let becomes all at once a turbid, impetuous torrent, dashing down to the bottom of the ravine to join the river below, which rolls on to the sea loaded with immense quantities of earth, vegetable and animal matter, and the trunks of trees and sometimes large stones are car-ried along its bed by the force of the torrent. The ocean is tinged for miles out by the red earthy matter, and the débris often is washed up by the waves, and strewed along the coasts. Nature, indeed, in these islands, assumes her most terrible as well as her most beautiful forms, for what visitations can be more appalling than the earthquake and the hurricane@-@the one shaking down cities in a few minutes, and burying their miserable inhabitants in the ruins the other sweep-ing, with its destructive blast, across the face of the land, and leaving only desolation and ruin behind ?@' The population, according to the census of 1881, was 28,211. Of this total 309 were of Carib blood of these 173 are said to be pu
 the wholly common is man made, And custom is his nurse ! Woe then to them Who lay irreverent hands upon his old House furniture, the dear inheritance From his forefathers. For time consecrates And what is grey with age becomes religion. Be in possession, and thou hast the right, And sacred will the many guard it for thee@! -@Coleridge. CCLXXXIX. THE SONNET'S SCANTY PLOT OF GROUND. NUNS fret not at their convent's narrow room And hermits are contented with their cells And students with their pensive citadels Maids at the wheel, the weaver at his loom, Sit blithe and happy bees that soar for bloom, High as the highest peak of Furness Fells, Will murmur by the hour in foxglove bells. In truth, the prison, unto which we doom Ourselves, no prison is and hence for me, In sundry moods, 'twas pastime to be bound Within the sonnet's scanty plot of ground Pleased if some souls, for such there needs must be Who have felt the weight of too much liberty, Should find short solace there, as I have found. -@Wordsworth. CCXC. SONNET TO MILTON. MILTON ! thou shouldst be living at this hour England hath need of thee she is a fen Of stagnant waters altar, sword, and pen, Fireside, the heroic wealth of hall and bower, Have forfeited their ancient English dow
 most gentle Prince, well may you wish that I had neuer bin borne, who by seeing of mee must lose your sight but happie should I count my selfe, if it so please the King, that I might redeeme thy eyes with my life or else, that being an equall offender, I might receiue equall punishment hadst thou sustained this smart for some Queene or Princesse of high blood, it might with the more ease be borne, but to indure it for such a one as I, it must needs cause a treble griefe to be increased. Content thee faire Margaret said the Duke for honour ought to be giuen to vertue, and not riches for Glory, Honor, Nobility and riches without vertue, are but clokes of maliciousnes. And now let me take my leaue of thy beauty, for neuer must I behold thy face notwithstanding I account my eyes well lost, in that, I doe forgoe them for so peereles a paragon. Now faire heauens farewell, the Sunne, Moone, and Starres shall I in this world neuer behold againe, and farewell also the fruitfull earth well may I feele thee, but those poore windowes of my body are now denyed to view thee any more and though the world hath euer bin my foe, yet will I bid thee farewell too, and farewell all my friends, whiles I live here in this world, I must suppose to sleepe, and wake when I come in heauen, where I hope to see you all againe. Yet had it pleased the King, I had rather haue lost my life then my eyes. Life, why, what is it but a flowre, a bubble in the water, a sparine long, and full of miserie of such small account is life, th
 two locks, which graceful hung behind, In equal curls, and well conspired to deck With shining ringlets the smooth ivory neck Love in these labyrinths his slaves detains, And mighty hearts are held in slender chains. With hairy springes we the birds betray, Slight lines of hair surprise the finnv prey Fair tresses man's imperial race ensnare, And beauty draws us with a single hair. 17@14. -@Pope. CCXI. HORACE, ODES, iv. 9. ADDRESSED TO ARCHBISHOP KING. VIRTUE concealed within our breast Is inactivity at best But never shall the Muse endure To let your virtues lie obscure Or suffer Envy to conceal Your labours for the public weal. Within your breast all wisdom lies, Either to govern or advise Your steady soul preserves her frame, In good and evil times the same. Pale Avarice and lurking Fraud, Stand in your sacred presence awed Your hand alone from gold abstains, Which drags the slavish world in chains. Him for a happy man I own, Whose fortune is not overgrown And happy he who wisely knows To use the gifts that Heaven bestows Or, if it please the powers divine, Can suffer want and not repin
 listen. Leo. Hark@! Al. No, all is hushed and still as death.@-@@Tis dreadful ! How reverend is the face of this tall pile, Whose ancient pillars rear their marble heads To bear aloft its arched and ponderous roof, By its own weight made steadfast and immovable, Looking tranquillity ! It strikes an awe And terror on my aching sight the tombs And monumental caves of death look cold And shoot a chillness to my trembling heart. Give me thy hand, and let me hear thy voice Nay, quickly speak to me, and let me hear Thy voice@-@my own affrights me with its echoes. 1687. -@Congreve. CXCVII. SONNET ON DEATH. @@WHAT has this bugbear death that's worth our care ? After a life of pain and sorrow past, After deluding hopes and dire despair, Death only gives us quiet at the last How strangely are our love and hate misplaced ! Freedom we seek, and yet from freedom flee, Courting those tyrant-sins that chain us fast, And shunning death that only sets us free. 'Tis not a foolish fear of future pains- Why should the@y fear who keep their souls from stains ? That makes me dread thy terrors, Death, to see 'Tis not the loss of riches or of fame, Or the vain toys the vulgar pleasures name, 'Tis nothing, Celia, but the losing thee ! -Walsh. The only sonnet between those by Milton and Gray's sonnet on the death of West 1742 ,@-@and how feeble
 no fierce light disturbs, whilst it reveals But silent musings urge the mind to seek Something too high for syllables to speak Till the free soul to a composedness charmed, Finding the elements of rage disarmed, O'er all below a solemn quiet grown, Joys in the inferior world, and thinks it like her own In such a night let me abroad remain, Till morning breaks and all's confused again Our cares, our toils, our clamours are renewed, Our pleasures, seldom reached, again pursued. 1713. -@Lady Winchilsea. CCX. FROM THE RAPE OF THE LOCK. NOT with more glories, in the ethereal plain, The sun first rises o'er the purpled main, Than issuing forth, the rival of his beams, Launched on the bosom of the silver Thames, Fair nymphs and well-drest youths around her shone, But every eye was fixed on her alone. On her white breast a sparkling cross she wore, Which Jews might kiss and infidels adore, Her lively looks a sprightly mind disclose, Quick as her eyes, and as unfixed as those. Favours to none, to all she smiles extends Oft she rejects, but never once offends. Bright as the sun, her eyes the gazers strike, And, like the sun, they shine on all alike. Yet graceful ease, and sweetness void of pride, Might hide her faults, if belles had faults to hide If to her share some female errors fall, Look on her face and you'll forget them all. This nymph, to the destruction of mankin
 heaps of hoary moulded walls. Yet time has seen, that lifts the low, And level lays the lofty brow, Has seen this broken pile complete, Big with the vanity of state But transient is the smile of fate ! A little rule, a little sway, A sunbeam in a winter's day, Is all the proud and mighty have Between the cradle and the grave. And see the rivers, how they run Through woods and meads, in shade and sun, Sometimes swift, sometimes slow.@@@@@ Wave succeeding wave, they go A various journey to the deep, Like human life to endless sleep ! Thus is nature's vesture wrought. To instruct our wandering thought Thus she dresses green and gay, To disperse our cares away. Ever charming, ever new, When will the landscape tire the view@? The fountain's fall, the river's flow, The woody valleys, warm and low The windy summit, wild and high, Roughly rushing on the sky ! The pleasant seat, the ruined tower. The naked rock, the shad -bower The town and village, dome and farm, Each give each a double charm, As pearls upon an AEthiop's arm. See, on the mountain s southern side, Where the prospect opens wide, Where the evening gilds the tid
 sullen Moloch, fled, Hath left in shadows dread His burning idol all of blackest hue In vain, with cymbals' ring, They call the grisly king, In dismal dance about the furnace blue The brutish gods of Nile as fast, Isis and Orus, and the dog Anubis, haste. Nor is Osiris seen In Memphian grove or green, Trampling the unshowered grass with lowings loud, Nor can he be at rest Within his sacred chest Nought but profoundest Hell can be his shroud In vain with timbrelled anthems dark The sable-stolèd sorcerers bear his worshipped ark. He feels from Juda's land The dreaded Infant's hand, The rays of Bethlehem blind his dusky eyn Nor all the gods beside Longer dare abide, Not Typhon huge ending in snaky twine Our Babe, to show His Godhead true, Can in His swaddling bands control the damnèd crew. So when the sun in bed, Curtained with cloudy red, Pillows his chin upon an orient wave, The flocking shadows pale Troop to the infernal jail, Each fettered ghost slips to his several grave And the yellow-skirted fa
 description of Deloney's biographies is fully justified by Thomas of Reading, which is a mixture of historical fact and fictitious narration, and may be compared to the historical novel of modern times for Coates, in his History of Reading, acknowledges the existence of our hero, even while he speaks slight-ingly of Deloney's history. The trade of Reading, with respect to manufactories, is no longer con- siderable. T@homas Cole, in the time of Edward I. query Henry I. was called the Rich Clothier of Reading. Though his name and reputation occa- sioned a fabulous and childish penny history, called the '@History of Thomas of Reading ' yet we may learn from the circumstance, that Reading was even then famous for its trade of clothing. Thomas Deloney deserves to be had in remem-brance by all lovers of our English Popular Literature, for he has contributed to it very largely, and in some instances with considerable poetical feeling. Mr. Dyce describes him as succeeding Elderton, as the most popular ballad writer of his time and that his productions entitled him to be so considered, will be admitted by those who remember his very pleasing ballad of Fair Rosamond, printed by Percy in his Reliques, ii. 143, ed. 179
 MRS. ANNE KILLIGREW@ TO THE PIOUS MEMORY OF THE ACCOMPLISHED YOUNG LADY, EXCELLENT IN THE TWO SISTER ARTS OF POESY AND PAINTING. AN ODE. THOU youngest virgin-daughter of the skies, Made in the last promotion of the blest Whose palms, new plucked from Paradise, In spreading branches more sublimely rise, Rich with immortal green above the rest Whether, adopted to some neighbouring star, Thou rollest above us in thy wandering race, Or, in procession fixed and regular, Movest with the heaven's majestic pace, Or, called to more superior bliss, Thou treadest with seraphims the vast abyss Whatever happy region is thy place Cease thy celestial song a little space Thou wilt have time enough for hymns divine, Since Heaven's eternal year is thine. Hear then a mortal Muse thy praise rehearse In no ignoble verse, But such as thy own voice did practise here, When thy first fruits of poesy were given To make thyself a welcome inmate there, While yet a young probationer And candidate of Heaven. Anne Killigrew died of small-pox in 1685, in her twenty-fifth year. Dryden's ode was prefixed to a posthumous edition of her poems. Stanzas 1 and 4 out of 10 are here given. Dr. Johnson says it is ' undoubtedly the noblest ode that our language ever has produced.' 'The first stanza may be pronounced absolutely faultless and incapable of improvement.'@-@Saintsbur
 morning clear, Down by the Mersey side, My drooping spirits for to cheer, An English girl I spied Like some great goddess with a smile Walked forth this charming fair, She's the blooming rose of England's Isle, And the flower of Lancashire. The graceful form of this lovely lass, With wonder fill'd my eyes, As she tripp'd o'er the dewy grass, My soul was in surprise, My heart said tarry here awhile, Let me your company share,@-You're the blooming rose of England's Isle. And the flower of Lancashire. No costly robes adorn'd this fair,@@ But a rustic dress she wore@@@@ A ribbon tied her silken hair, @@@@A milking pail she bore, Like some great goddess with a smile As to milk she did repair, She's the blooming rose of England's Isle, And the flower of Lancashire. Her smile would win a prince's heart Or bless a monarch's life, to those she would such joys impart, If blessed with such a wife I mean to tarry here awhile, Hoping her love to acquire, She's the blooming rose of England's Isle, And the flower of Lancashire@. To gain this fair maid's free good will, I'll write to her my love, And O ! kind heaven inspire my quill, That it may successful prove ! And if she does my heart beguile, Or refuse my love to share, Then adieu to the rose of England isle And the flower of Lancashire. This world is wide for me to rove, No danger will I fear, If this fair maid denies my love, To some foreign shore I'll steer I'll wander far like some exile, And oft drop an affectionate tear, When I think on the rose of England's Isle, And the flower of Lancashire. SAILOR'S FAREWELL A favourite song, sung by Richard Newton, with great applause. Farewell ! Mary, I must leave thee The anchor's weighed@-@I must aboard, Do not let my absence grieve thee, Of sorrow do not breathe a word What though the foaming@ ocean sever, Me from thee, yet still my heart Loves you, Mary, and will ever, Though stern duty bids us part. Farewell ! Mary, dearest Mary, Do not grieve, I shall return, Ci own'd with laurels, pray do smother, That sad sigh, oh ! do not mourn, You unman me with your rindness Oh ! chase these tears off my brow Now round thy lips sweet smiles are creeping Bless thee, Mary, farewell now. Farewell ! Mary, do not weep so, Though I leave thee for awhile, I'll love thee still when on the deep now, Cheer my heart with thy sweet smiles. Soothe my parents with thy kindness, And I bless thee when far away Oh ! forgive my youthful blindness, For I can no longer stay. Dearest parents, farewell kindly, Rest content whilst I'm away, Mark that gun, tis to remind me, On shore I can no longer stay The anchor's weigh'd, the sails are spreading, The boat is waiting in the bay, Farewell now all kind relations, Pray for me when far away. 98
 THE SUNSHINE OF A SMILE. MARK when she smiles with amiable cheer, And tell me whereto can ye liken it When on each eyelid sweetly do appear An hundred Graces as in shade to sit. Likest it seemeth, in my simple wit, Unto the fair sunshine in summer's day That, when a dreadful storm away is flit. Through the broad world doth spread his goodly ray At sight whereof, each bird that sits on spray, And every beast that to his den was fled, Comes forth afresh out of their late dismay, And to the light lift up their drooping head. So my storm-beaten heart likewise is cheered With that sunshine, when cloudy looks are cleared. 1595. -@Spenser, Sonnet 40. XLIV. THE THREE ELIZABETHS. MOST happy letters ! framed by skillfull trade, With which that happy name was first desynd, The which three times thrise happy hath me made, With guifts of body, fortune, and of mind. The first my being to me gave by kind, From mother's womb derived by dew descent The second is my sovereigne queene most kind, That honour and large richesse to me lent The third my love, my life's last ornament, By whom my spirit out of dust was raysed To speake her prayse and glory excellent, Of all alive most worthy to be praysed. Ye three Elizabeths ! for ever live, That three such graces did unto me give. 1595. -@Ib., Sonnet 
 shew him by a servant of his such wonderfull things that his grace had never seene the like before. The king demanded of him of what nature those things were that hee would doe the ambassadour answered that they were things done by the art of magicke. The king hearing of this, sent straight for Fryer Bacon, who presently came, and brought Fryer Bungey with him. When the banquet was done, Vandermast did aske the king, if he desired to see the spirit of any man de-ceased and if that hee did, hee would raise him in such manner and fashion as he was in when that he lived. The king told him, that above all men he desired to see Pompey the Great, w@ho could abide no equall. Vander-mast by his art raised him, armed in such manner as hee was when he was slaine at the battell of Pharsalia at this they were all highly contented. Fryer Bacon pre-sently raised the ghost of Iulius Caesar, who could abide no superiour, and had slaine this Pompey at the battell of Pharsalia at the sight of him they were all amazed, but the king who sent for Bacon and Vandermast said that there was some man of art in that presence, whom he desired to see. Fryer Bacon then shewed himselfe, saying it was I Vandermast, that raised Caesar, partly to give content to this royall presence, but chiefely for to conquer thy Pompey, as he did once before, at that great battell of Pharsalia, which he now againe shall doe. Then presently began a fight between Caesar and Pompey, which continued a good space, to the content of all, except Vandermast. At last Pompey was ove
 Oh ! how altered was its sprightlier tone. When Cheerfulness, a nymph of healthiest hue, Her bow across her shoulder flung, Her buskins gemmed with morning dew, Blew an inspiring air, that dale and thicket rung, The hunter's call, to Faun and Dryad known ! The oak-crowned sisters, and their chaste-eyed queen, Satyrs and sylvan boys, were seen Peeping from forth their alleys green Brown Exercise rejoiced to hear And Sport leaped up, and seized his beechen spear. Last came Joy's ecstatic trial He, with viny crown advancing, First to the lively pipe his hand addressed But soon he saw the brisk-awakening viol, Whose sweet entrancing voice he loved the best They would have thought who heard the strain, They saw in Tempe's vale her native maids, Amidst the festal-sounding shades, To some unwearied minstrel dancing, While, as his flying fingers kissed the strings, Love framed with Mirth a gay fantastic round Loose were her tresses seen, her zone unbound And he, amidst his frolic play, As if he would the charming air repay, Shook thousand odours from his dewy wings. O Music ! sphere-descended maid, Friend of Pleasure, Wisdom's aid ! Why, goddess, why, to us denied, Lay'st thou thy ancient lyre aside ? As in that loved Athenian bower You learned an all-commanding power, Thy mimic soul, O nymph endeared ! Can well recall what then it hear
 TREASURES OF THE ENGLISH TONGUE.@@ POWER above powers ! O heavenly Eloquence ! That, with the strong rein of commanding words, Dost manage, guide, and master the eminence Of men's affections more than all their swords Shall we not offer to thy excellence The richest treasure that our wit affords ? Thou that canst do much more with one poor pen Than all the powers of princes can effect, And draw, divert, dispose, and fashion men Better than force or rigour can direct Should we this ornament of glory then, As the immaterial fruits of shades, neglect ? Or, should we, careless, come behind the rest In power of words, that go before in worth ? When as our accent, equal to the best, Is able greater wonders to bring forth When all that ever hotter spirits expressed Comes bettered by the patience of the north. And who, in time, knows whither we may vent The treasure of our tongue to what strange shores This gain of our best glory shall be sent To enrich unknowing nations with our stores What worlds in the yet unformed Occident May come refined with th' accents that are ours ? Or, who can tell for what great work in hand The greatness of our style is now ordained ? What powers it shall bring in, what spirits command, What thoughts let out, what humours keep restrained, What mischiefs it may powerfully withstand, And what fair ends may thereby be attained  Daniel's Musophilus, containing a general Defence of Learning, 1599. ' The best poem of its kind in the language,' says Mr. Lowell. What a double fulfilment of lines 19-24 is this praise coming from a critic in the Occident
 such heart-shaking music, who can say What are its tidings ? have our troops awaked ? Or do they still, as if with opium drugged, Snore to the murmurs of the Atlantic wave ? Is India free ? and does she wear her plumed And jewelled turban with a smile of peace, Or do we grind her still ? The grand debate, The popular harangue, the tart reply, The logic, and the wisdom, and the wit, And the loud laugh -@I long to know them all I burn to set the imprisoned wranglers free, And give them voice and utterance once again. Now stir the fire, and close the shutters fast, Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round, And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn Throws up a steamy column, and the cups That cheer but not inebriate, wait on each, So let us welcome peaceful evening in. -@Cowper's Task, bk. iv. CCLXVI. MEDITATION IN WINTER. THE night was winter in his roughest mood, The morning sharp and clear. But now at noon, Upon the southern side of the slant hills, And where the woods fence off the northern blast, The season smiles, resigning all its rage, And has the warmth of May. The vault is blue Without a cloud, and white without a speck The dazzling splendour of the scene below. Again the harmony comes o'er the vale, And through the trees I view the embattled tower Whence all the music. I again perceive The soothing influence of the wafted strains, And settle in soft musings as I tre
 his peerage fell By Fontarabbia. Thus far these beyond Compare of mortal prowess, yet observed Their dread Commander he, above the rest In shape and gesture proudly eminent, Stood like a tower his form had yet not lost All her original brightness, nor appeared Less than Archangel ruined, and the excess Of glory obscured as when the sun new-risen Looks through the horizontal misty air, Shorn of his beams, or from behind the moon, In dim eclipse, disastrous twilight sheds On half the nations, and with fear of change Perplexes monarchs. Darkened so, yet shone Above them all the Archangel but his face Deep scars of thunder had intrenched, and care Sat on his faded cheek, but under brows Of dauntless courage, and considerate pride Waiting revenge cruel his eye, but cast Signs of remorse and passion, to behold The fellows of his crime, the followers rather, Far other once beheld in bliss, condemned For ever now to have their lot in pain, Millions of Spirits for his fault amerced Of Heaven, and from eternal splendours flung For his revolt, yet faithful how they stood, Their glory withered as when heaven's fire Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines, With singed top their stately growth, though bare, Stands on the blasted heath. He now prepared To speak whereat their doubled ranks they bend From wing to wing, and half enclose him round With all his peers attention held them mute. Thrice he essayed, and thrice, in spite of scor
 ODE ON A GRECIAN URN. THOU still unravished bride of quietness ! Thou foster-child of Silence and slow Time, Sylvan historian, who canst thus express A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shape Of deities or mortals, or of both, In Tempe or the dales of Arcady ? What men or gods are these ? what maidens loth ? What mad pursuit ? What struggle to escape ? What pipes and timbrels ? What wild ecstasy ? Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard Are sweeter therefore, ye soft pipes, play on Not to the sensual ear, but, more endeared, Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare Bold lover, never, never canst thou kiss, Though winning near the goal@-@yet, do not grieve She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss, For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair@! Ah, happy, happy boughs ! that cannot shed Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu And happy melodist, unwearied, For ever piping songs for ever new More happy love ! more happy, happy love ! For ever warm and still to be enjoyed, For ever panting and for ever young All breathing human passion far above, That leaves a heart high sorrowful and cloyed, A burning forehead, and a parching tongu
 all within were pathes and alleies wide, With footing worne, and leading inward farr. Faire harbour that them seems, so in they entred ar. And foorth they passe, with pleasure forward led Joying to heare the birdes sweete harmony, Which, therein shrouded from the tempest dred, Seemd in their song to scorne the cruell sky. Much can they praise the trees so straight and hy, The sayling Pine the Cedar proud and tall The vine-propp Elme the Poplar never dry The builder Oake, sole king of forests all The Aspine good for staves the Cypresse funerall The Laurell, meed of mightie Conquerours And Poets sage the Firre that weepeth still The Willow, worne of forlorne paramours The Eugh, obedient to the benders will The Birch for shaftes the Sallow for the mill The Mirrhe sweete-bleeding in the bitter wound The warlike Beech the Ash for nothing ill The fruitful Olive and the Platane round The carver Holme the Maple seeldom inward sound. Led with delight, they thus beguile the way, Untill the blustring storme is overblowne When, weening to returne whence they did stray, They cannot finde that path, which first was showne, But wandering too and fro in waies unknowne, Furthest from end then when they neerest weene, That makes them doubt their wits be not their owne So many pathes, so many turnings seene, That which of them to take in diverse doubt they been. 1590. -@Spense
 sonnes. Now for some reason which was best known to himselfe he appointed none of them by name to be his heyre, but spake to them all after this manner You are all my sonnes, and I love you all as a father should doe, all alike, not one better than the other and cause I would alwayes doe rightly so neere as I can, I leave all my lands and goods to him that loves me best These were his last words that he spake con-cerning any worldly affaires. After he was dead and buried, there arose a great controversie betwixt them, who should inherit their fathers goods and lands, every one pleading for himselfe, how that he loved his father best. All the cunning lawyers of the kingdome could say nothing to the purpose, concerning this case, so that they were inforced to begge of the king a grant for a combat for they would not share the lands and goods among them, but every one desired all or else nothing. The king seeing no other way to end this controversie, granted a combat the two eldest being to fight first, and the conquerour to fight with the youngest, and the surviver of them was to have the land. The day being come that was set for these com-batants, they all came in armed for the fight. Friar Bacon being there present, and seeing such three lustie young men like to perish, and that by their owne flesh and bloode, grieved very much, and went to the king desiring his maiestie that he would stay the fight, and he would finde a meanes without any bloodshed to e
 to see so many days, Till time had blasted all their bays But cursed be the fatal hour That plucked the fairest, sweetest flower That in the Muses' garden grew, And amongst withered laurels threw. Time, which made them their fame outlive, To Cowley scarce did ripeness give. Old mother-wit and Nature gave Shakespeare and Fletcher all they have In Spenser and in@jonson, Art Of slower Nature got the start But both in him so equal are, None knows which bears the happiest share To him no author was unknown, Yet what he wrote was all his own. He melted not the ancient gold, Nor, with Ben Jonson. did make bold To plunder all the Roman stores Of poets and of orators. Horace's wit and Virgil's state He did not steal, but emulate And when he would like them appear, Their garb, but not their clothes, did wear He not from Rome alone, but Greece, Like Jason, brought the golden fleece To him that language, though to none Of th' others, as his own was known. On a stiff gale, as Flaccus sings, The Theban swan extends his wings, When through the eternal clouds he flies, To the same pitch our swan doth rise. Old Pindar's flights by him are reached, When on that gale his wings are stretche
 is forgotten. And in saying this, she went in, and soone after she was so sicke, that needes she must goe to bed and when she was laid, she draue out that night with many grieuous groanes, sighing and sobbing, and no rest she could take God wot. And in the morn-ing when shee should rise, the good soule fell downe in a swowne, which put her maidens in a great flight, who running downe to their master, cryed out Alas, alas our Dame is dead, our Dame is dead. The good-man hearing this, ran vp in all hast and there fell to rubbing and chafing of her temples, sending for aqua vitae, and saying, Ah my sweet-heart, speake to me, good-wife, alacke, alacke call in the neighbours, you queanes, quoth he. With that she left vp her head, fetching a great groane, and presently swouned againe, and much a doe ywis, he had to keepe life in her but when she was come to her selfe, How dost thou wife, qd. he ? What wilt thou haue ? for Gods sake tell me if thou hast a mind to any thing, thou shalt haue it. Away dissembler qd. she how can I beleeve thee ? thou hast said to me as much a hundred times, and decerned me, it is thy churlishnesse that hath killed my heart, neuer was woman matcht to so vnkind a man. Nay, good-@wife, blame me not without cause God knoweth how heartily I loue thee. Loue me ? no, no, thou didst neuer carry my loue but on the tip of thy tongue, quoth she, I dare sweare thou desirest nothing so much as my death, and for my part, I would to God thou hadst thy desire but be content, I shall not troub
  MY SIDE. T HE land of my home is flitting, flitting from my view A gale in the sails is sitting, toils the merry crew @@Here let my home be, on the waters wide, I roam with a proud heart, Maggie's by my side @@My own love, Maggie dear, sitting by my side,e, Maggie dear, my own love, sitting by my side. The wind howling o'er the billow, from the dis-tant lea, The storm raging round my pillow brings no care to me Roll on ye dark waves o'er the troubled tide, I heed not your anger, Maggie's by my side.@ My own love, Maggie dear, sitting by my side, Maggie dear, my own love, sitting by my side. Storms can appal me never, while my brow is clear, Fair weather lingers ever, where her smiles appear When sorrows breakers round my heart shall hide, Still may I find her sitting by my side. My own love, Maggie dear, sitting by my side, Maggie dear, my own love, sitting by my side. CARRIER DOVE. F LY away to my native land, sweet dove, Fly away to my native land, And bear these traces to my lady-love, That I have traced with a feeble hand.@@ She marvels much at my long delay, @dela@y, A rumour of death she has heard Or she thinks perhaps that I falsely stray, So fly to her bower, sweet bird. O fly to her bower, and say that the chain Of the tyrant is o'er me now That I never shall mount on my steed again, With my helmet on my brow. No friend to my lattice a solace brings, Except when thy voice is heard, As you beat the bars with your snowy wings, Then fly to her bower, sweet bird. I shall miss thy visits at dawn, sweet dove, I shall miss thy visits at eve, But bring me a line from my lady-love, And then I shall cease to grieve. I can bear in the dungeon to waste my youth, I can fall by the conqueror's sword, But I cannot endure she should doubt my truth, So fly to her home, sweet bird. Oh ! where are my  @H ! where are my schoolmates gone, The shy, the dull, and the gay@@ ? They have left me all heart-sick and lone, To drag out life's short'ning day. The school yet remains where it stood, When its moss-covered roof I first saw, The playground-@my eyes 'gin to flood,d, When I think of the playground of yore. The spire, too, that pointed to truth, The fall in its bubbling rage, So vast in the days of my youth,@@@@@@ So small in the night of my age. @@@@C@@HORUS. Where are my schoolmates gone, The shy, the dull, and the gay ? They have left me all heart-sick and lone, To drag out life's short'ning day. Oh ! where are my schoomates gone, Do they yet toss on life's stormy waves ? Or sleep a sleep peaceful and lone, 'Neath the flowers that bloom o'er their graves ? What day-dreams are mine to enjoy, As I sit and gaze into the past, Till again I am changed into a boy, And, ah, me ! dreams too airy to last. Farewell, scattered friends of my youth, 'Tis mem'ry dims these old eyes, May your thoughts like your spire point to truth, And we'll talk o'er the past in the skies. Where are my schoolmates, c. MY HELEN is THE  Helen is the fairest flower, That ever graced the sun or shade, Or deck'd with charms the lover's bower, The desert wild, or mountain glade Her bosom fairer than the snow, Or April showers, or May morn's breath, Than moonlight rays, or rubies glow, Than weeping lily closed in death. Yes, Helen is, c. The azure eye when cast above, Is brighter than yon starry sky, Her mellow voice in notes of love, First raised my soul to bliss on high. Her cheeks, they mock the rose's bloom, Her dear, dear lip, the coral's hue, Her breath, rich India's choice perfume, Her breast is tender, kind, and true. Yes, Helen is,
CHAPTER II. AN AFTERNOON ON DECK. The Northern Caribbees-@Anguilla-@Its @@@@Wild Irish Settlers and Present Inhabitants -St. Martin, a Franco-Dutch Island-@St. Bartholomew-@Saba, a Crater Shipyard -@St. Eustatius-@Arrival at St. Christopher. O VER the blue water of the Carib-bean Sea the Barracouta held her way, going along a good ten knots, rolling easily with a gentle mo-tion that lulled even the most alert and open-eyed of her passengers into moments of comfortable for-getfulness. Several times during the afternoon I caught myself dropping off, and the Doctor that evening explained his appearance on deck, long after his customary bedtime, by admitting that between luncheon and dinner-time he had on four or five different occasions managed to get forty winks. As for the Salmagundian, he frankly announced that there was no use trying to keep his eyes open, and to the best of my recollection he did not tr@y. Several times, indeed@, he aroused himself long enough to study the poses of his fellow-passengers as they lay promiscu-ous, lapped in balmy sleep on the deck, or lolled in deck-chairs, too charmed to read or talk, too comfortable to move, some of th
 round the bowl, of vanished years We talk with joyous seeming,@-With smiles that might as well be tears, So faint, so sad their beaming While memory brings us back again Each early tie that twined us, Oh ! sweet's the cup that circles then To those we've left behind us ! And when, in other climes, we meet Some isle or vale enchanting, Where all looks flowery, wild, and sweet, And nought but love is wanting We think how great had been our bliss If Heaven had but assigned us To live and die in scenes like this, With some we've left behind us ! As travellers oft look back at eve When eastward darkly going, To gaze upon that light they leave Still faint behind them glowing@-So, when the close of pleasure's day To gloom hath near consigned us, We turn to catch one fading ray Of joy that's left behind us. CCCLIX. SONG. TO THE SPIRIT OF DELIGHT. RARELY, rarely, comest thou, Spirit of Delight! Wherefore hast thou left me now Many a day and night ? Many a weary night and day 'Tis since thou art fled awa
 albeit that the next time that he came to London, his horse stumbled and broke one of his legs as he should ride homeward, yet hired he another to hasten his owne death for there is no remedy but he shoull goe to Colebrooke that night but by the way he was heauy asleepe, that he could scant keepe himselfe in the saddle and when he came neere vnto the Towne, his nose burst out suddenly a bleeding. Well, to his Inne he came, and so heauy was his heart that he could eate no meat his Oast and Oastesse hearing he was so melancholy, came vp to cheare him, saying, Jesus Master Cole, what ayles you to night ? neuer did we see you thus sad before will it please you to haue a quart of burnt sacke ? With a good will quoth he and would to God Tom Doue were here, he would surely make me merry, and we should lacke no musicke but I am sorry for the man with all my heart, that he is come so farre behind hand but alas, so much can euery man say, but what good doth it him ? No, no, it is not words can helpe a man in this case, the man had need of other reliefe then so. Let me see I haue but one child in the world, and that is my daughter, and halfe that I haue is hers, the other halfe my wifes. What then ? shall I be good to no body but them ? In conscience, my wealth is too much for a couple to pos-sesse, and what is our Religion without charity ? And to whom is charity more to be shewne, then to decaid house-holders ? Good my Oast lend me a pen and inke, and so
 they were drying That it would please his Ma-iestie to graunt the Towne this priuilege, That what-soever he was that was taken stealing their Cloth, might presently without any further tryall be hanged up. When the day of their appearance approached, the Clothiers came before the King, and deliuered vp their petition in writing, which his Maiestie most graciously perusing, said, hee was ready to fufill their request and therefore for the first point of their Petition, he called for a staffe to be brought him, and measuring thereupon the iust length of his owne arme, deliuered it to the Clothiers, saying, This measure shall be called a yard, and no other measure thorowout all the Realme of England shall be vsed for the same, and by this shall men buy and sell, and we will so prouide, that whoso-euer he be that abuseth our subiects by any false mea-sure, that he shall not onely pay a fine for the same to the King, but also haue his body punished by imprison-ment. And as concerning the second point of your Petition, because of my sudden departure out of the Land, I know not better how to ease you of this griefe of crackt money this Decree I make, because they account crackt money not currant, I say, none shall be currant but crackt money. And therefore I will giue present charge, that all the money thorow the Land shall be slit, and so you shall suffer no losse. But now for your last request for the Towne of Halifax where by theeues your Clothes are so often stolne from you, seeing the Lawes already prouided 
  Wisdom proceeds, and chooses The seeming evil, th' apparent good refuses Knowledge descries alone Wisdom applies That makes some fools, this maketh none but wise The curious hand of Knowledge doth but pick Bare simples Wisdom pounds them, for the sick In my afflictions, Knowledge apprehends Who is the author, what the cause and ends. It finds that Patience is my sad relief, And that the hand that caused can cure my grief To rest contented here is but to bring Clouds without rain, and heat without a spring What hope arises hence ? the devils do The very same they know and tremble too But sacred Wisdom doth apply that good, Which simple Knowledge barely understood Wisdom concludes, and in conclusion proves That wheresoever God corrects He loves Wisdom digests what Knowledge did but taste That deals in futures, this in things are past Wisdom's the card of Knowledge, which, without That guide, at random's wrecked on every doubt Knowledge, when Wisdom is too weak to guide her, Is like a headstrong horse, that throws the rider Which made that great philosopher avow He knew so much that he did nothing know. -Quarles' Job Militant. CXXXV.  SWEET Peace, where dost thou dwell ? I humbly crave, Let me once know. I sought thee in a secret cave, And asked, if Peace were  chart ' the shipman's card '.@-@Macbeth, i. 
 Karl Foster. The first two, indeed, were able-bodied seamen born in Massachusetts the third a Swede and, in the order named, an Algerian, a Nova Scotian, a man of Cape Breton, a Dane, a Nor-wegian, a Fin, and a German from the Baltic Provinces. There was beyond doubt an American vessel@-@and a Yankee crew whereof two could ask for a ration of Yankee pork and beans without falling foul of their p@'s and @b's. This is by no means an exaggerated case@-@it is a plain, every-day fact a sample of the crews to be found on board of every ninety-five out of a hundred vessels@-@coasters or open-sea cruisers@-@flying the Stars and Stripes. Barbados is one grand sugar-estate. Every acre of tillable land has been broken by the plough, and year by year yields a marvellous increase. For generations the wonderful natural fertility of the soil has been stimulated by the labor and art of painstaking, skilful hus-bandmen, until less than one-fifteenth of the entire compass of the island remains unplanted or unproductive. In view of this fact it is no exaggeration to say that, excepting those parcels of ground occu-pied by the dwellings of the living, or consecrated by the burial of the dead, Bimshire is one magnificent cane-piece in a state of perfect cultivation. Sugar-cane grows every@where@-@on hill-sides so steep that one wonders how the furrows are laid or the harrow can be driven across the sloping fields it clings to shelves of rocks upon which toil-ing negroes replace the soil washed from the narrow ledges, year after year, by deluges of rain. It ripens close to the sea@-@so close, in fact, that in times of hurricane the skirts of the plantations are frequently sprinkled with salt-spray. Sugar-cane everywhere ! nothing but sugar-cane ! Planters and plantations, sugar, molasses, rum ! The philosopher who made the discovery that all great rivers ran past big cities, if he had had occasion, would doubtless have called attention to the fact that the best farming-lands are situated in coun-tries where the people devote themselves most heartily to agricultural pursuits. In support of this axiom he might well cite Barbados, for nowhere else in the world are to be found more diligent planters 
 Ajax strives some rock's vast weight to throw, The line too labours and the words move slow Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain, Flies o'er the unbending corn and skims along the main. Hear how Timotheus' varied lays surprise, And bid alternate passions fall and rise ! While at each change, the son of Libyan Jove Now burns with glory, and then melts with love, Now his fierce eyes with sparkling fury glow, Now sighs steal out, and tears begin to flow Persians and Greeks like turns of nature found, And the world's victor stood subdued by sound ! The power of music all our hearts allow, And what Timotheus was, is Dryden now. 171@1. -@Pope. CCVII. TO A TREE. FAIR Tree ! for thy delightful shade 'Tis just that some return be made Sure some return is due from me To thy cool shadows and to thee. When thou to birds dost shelter give Thou music dost from them receive If travellers beneath thee stay Till storms have worn themselves away, That time in praising thee they spend, And thy protecting power commend The shepherd here, from scorching freed, Tunes to thy dancing leaves his reed, Whilst his loved nymph in thanks bestows Her flowery chaplets on thy bough
 I. PERILS IN CORSICA. IT is strange that Corsica should be as little known and visited as it is. Placed within easy reach of the most unambitious tourist, offering him the loveliest scenery and few serious difficulties of travel,@@ it yet remains comparatively a terra incognita. Many people have a vague idea that its sole claim to distinction lies in the fact of its having given birth to the great Napoleon, and that it is now a land of semi-savagery, snakes, brigands, and other horrors. There is not a brigand on the island. Snakes exist in some numbers, but the majority are harmless and, of those whose bite is dangerous, there need be no fear  part of the traveller, as they are in a far greater hurry to get out of his way, than he of theirs. As regards the semi-savagery, that is perhaps a matter of opinion. The Corsican comes of a race of heroes he is proud, conservative, and reticent phlegmatic until roused, then dangerous. The lower orders are full of intelligence, but their domestic surroundings are utterly bare and unrefined, and the comparative luxury of our working class is unknown to and apparently undesired by them. In one respect the Corsican is certainly uncivilized he is, as a rule, quite indifferent to the value of money, and prefers his own inherent idleness, or supposed dignity, to any pecu@niary advantage. A gun is generally in his hand, a spade never and he will often starve before he will work, beg, or cheat. Rich lands lie uncultivated, and houses fall to ruins in Corsica, because the in@habitants are too lazy to spend a few hours daily in toil. On the other hand, especially coming from Italy, the land of cheats par  is refreshing to be in a country where there is neither whining beggar, overreach@ing landlord, nor humbugging tradesman. A traveller may go from one end of Corsica to the other, and if he behave courteously himself, will probably never meet with a discourteous word, from the time he sets foot on the island until he leaves it. At the same time, it cannot be denied that the Corsicans, though polite and even friendly to strangers, have a weakness for shooting one another. It is nonsense to suppose the vendetta is crushed out it is as lively as ever in some parts. The almost inaccessible mountains are still the resort of escaped, bandits outlaws -pursued by the weak arm of the law-who, occasionally bringing down their gen@d'arme, are never known to interfere with a stranger. Their object is not robbery, but concealment from justice, and the crime for which it follows them is generally the result of some private feud. In all this, I speak of the lower orders, the Corsicans purs et simples. The  are not Corsican at all, save in their love for their country. A Corsican gentleman essays to speak French like a Parisian, and imitates both the French manners and character. He is generally lively and talkative, and has quite cast away the ignorant apathy of his poorer brethren regarding the value of money. He is the advocate of commerce and railways, and all modern improvements, and dread@fully ashamed of such barbarous national customs as the vendetta, generally flatly denying that such a thing exists at the present day, and boldly telling you that not a bandit is now to be found in the moun@tains. When we expressed our intention of visit@ing this unknown land, many were the warn@ing voices raised to intimidate us by alarmed friends, and we felt that we were bold women to stick to our project. One by one, the terrible prophecies poured in, like so many shadows of Job's messengers, until the stoutest heart might have been excused a quiver. The plague, malaria, sunstroke,  bugs-these were a few of the horrors held out by sensible people, some of them travellers, for our consideration. Notwithstanding these reports, however, we persevered and the result showed how much faith is to be given in such cases to friendly advice. Each of the threatened perils turned out, more or less, nothing but a phantom. The truth of the matter is, that Corsica is a remarkably easy country in which to travel, totally without difficulties or dangers of any sort, to the person who is only careful to select a good coachman as his pioneer. On the other hand, the accommodation is often extremely rough, and it is by no means the place for an invalid or a fastidious person. The cooking is nearly always good, and the dinners excellent but the village inns are sometimes filthy, and the bedrooms horrible. There is only one good hotel-really excellent-in the whole island, and that is at Ajaccio and people who travel in Corsica must be prepared, not only for broken windows, sour bread, and no  for bad smells, black floors, and a total absence of all the decencies of life. They will also occasionally find an army of black beetles in their rooms, and sometimes something worse. Sundry and manifold remedies we tried against this last and most terrible plague but all in vain. One friend, a consul, counselled the use of carbolic soap, and we accordingly each invested in a slab of this not over inviting article, submitting ourselves to a scent like that of puppy dogs on washing day. But the enemy didn't mind it in the least. Another, military, friend believed strongly in Keating's powder, and informed me how, one night in Poland, upon a threatened attack of vermin, he had put it to a severe test. He had thrown up an earthwork of Keating in a ring round the bed, reposing within peacefully unmolested until morn@ing. The enemy had stormed the bastion, but failed to make a breach, being repulsed with heavy loss and, when day broke, retired discomfited and utterly routed, leaving their dead upon the plain.@ clearly the Polish bug has not the indomit@able energy and insular enterprise of his Corsican relative. Our carefully prepared entrenchments were utterly futile and the foe, when present, speedily gained posses@sion of the battle-field, causing ignominious flight. But in many instances, where the village inn looked of the poorest and lowest, our anticipations, in respect of uncleanli@ness, were agreeably disappointed. Our party, when at last it started for the island, consisted of three unprotected ladies, whom, for the sake of distinction, we will call Nos. 1, 2, and 3. It was towards the end of April when we left Leghorn for Bastia, and not a propitious day. All night long a high gale had been blowing, and the lightning dancing across a black sky and when, at about 8 a.m., we left the quay in our little boat, the wind had not moderated much, and even in the harbour the waves tossed us up and do@wn in a most lively manner. When we reached the steamer, we saw that she was a most wretched little concern, laden with mer@chandise, and of no beam at all  open sea beyond was covered with high white breakers. I think our hearts would have failed us, and we should have turned back, notwith@standing the good augury of a Sunday morning, had it not been for the tedious term of delay circumstances had already imposed upon us at Leghorn and at Florence. We felt that if we did not go by this boat, we might never go the season was already late for Corsica so we shut our eyes, and went. For nearly three quarters of an hour that horrid little knife-shaped steamer rose and sank on the heavy swell inside the harbour and then, at length, when every one was beginning to look pale, she heaved up her anchors and departed on her way. And what a way it was ! There were but few passengers on board beside ourselves, and no ladies. The others consisted of half a dozen French and Corsican gentlemen, one of whom, a stout, middle-aged individual, returning to his native land after a thirty years' absence in France, took a special interest in the  English ladies, who could brave such a sea for its dear sake. This person, watching our failing powers, offered us much kindly sympathy and well-meant advice, received, I fear, with the amount of ingratitude usual on such occasions. For eight long hours we tossed, and rolled, and danced about on the bosom of that heartless sea. It w@as really bad weather, and the waves washed clean over the rickety little vessel. I lay vaguely wondering whether we should share the fate of a large Indian steamer, which the very day before had been wrecked in this sea, on the Elba rocks, on its way to Bombay. Starting from Leghorn at 5 a.m., at seven o'clock she struck upon the rocks, and before an hour was over the fine vessel was not only a total wreck, but almost entirely submerged. Fortunately, a fleet of fishing-boats in the neighbourhood rescued the crew, and passengers, who, after an unenviable cruise of seven or eight hours, and with the loss of all their baggage, found themselves relanded at Leghorn, where some of them came to our hotel and detailed their  over those eight hours I draw a veil. I would only caution any intending visitor to Corsica, who may not be a good sailor and a tough traveller, not to be misled by any popular delusions as to the calm blue waters of the Mediterranean, but to be careful as to the boat and day he selects for his voyage. Also, to make sure that the boat marked in his time-table does really go at the hour specified, or indeed at all that day, which is by no means to be taken for granted. O that steamer to Bastia ! There could nothing be nastier, Not even in Charon's dark wherry For that passage is quicker, And you cannot be sicker In crossing the Stygian ferry ! Forde CHAPTER II. THE TOWN OF BASTIA. SOON after four o'clock, our small vessel laboured its way into Bastia harbour, and a crowd of little boats came alongside to convey us and our effects to shore. I looked down, and saw the most wonderful sea, a deep Prussian blue, tossing against the steamer's sides looked above, and saw a long, level shore, backed by low hills, the large town of Bastia rising gently from the water's edge, with complex streets and tall, factory-like houses. In a few minutes we were landed on Corsican soil and, whilst our things lay before the door of the custom house just opposite the landing-stage, they became the cause of a lively altercation between the many female porters anxious to appropriate them as far as the hotel. We were the centre of an  curious, crowd of about a hundred natives and amongst these, twenty or thirty tall, stalwart women and a few boys pushed, and jostled, and fought over our possessions, with an intense determination good to see. The men, meanwhile, Corsican fashion, stood by, silent and dignified, their hands in their pockets, looking on indiffer@ently at the struggles of their better halves. When at length we were ready to start, and the three trunks had been replaced on the hand-cart, we had to pursue and divest five women of our small handbags, sketching blocks, and bundles of wraps, with which, deprived of the trunks, they were separately consoling themselves, deciding, to their mortification, that it did not require that number of stout females, in addition to a strong cart, to carry our very moderate allowance of luggage. Three of them, nevertheless, followed us to the hotel door, where, placing the heavy boxes on their heads, they marched with stately steps up the dark and dingy staircase, and deposited them in our rooms. It is astonishing what weight  can bear upon t@heir heads. From childhood upwards, they are accustomed to carry all the heavy domestic burdens, and to carry them on their heads. They will pile one thing on the top of another, until, in the distance, they look like an advancing phantom of monstrous form. Enormous piles of wood, two or three yards long, large baskets full of heavy family goods, great wooden or earthenware cans and jars full of water, with sometimes a baby on the arm, are their usual burdens. Nothing but a baby is ever carried on the arm and so much more convenient has habit made it to them to use their heads rather than their hands, that I believe, if the baby could be induced to keep its equilibrium as surely as the can of water or the load of wood, it would long ago have been transferred like@wise to that elevation. Here is a specimen of a woman, who, with a remarkably strong and plunging infant on her arm, and a very large jar balanced sideways on her head, remained placidly motionless for at least ten minutes before us at the village of Buchisano, to have her portrait  men of Corsica never carry anything except a gun or a heavily-knobbed stick in fact, they rarely carry themselves, as they are generally on mule or donkey back and it is no unusual sight to meet one or two of the nobler sex jogging along, pipe in mouth, on their mules, whilst the women of the family trudge behind, bearing babe and burden. The Corsican women are much more lively than their helpmeets they have less of dignity and a vast deal more energy. They can appreciate a joke, which, as a rule, the men apparently cannot. I should imagine that a woman is never, or hardly ever, ill-treated in Corsica. She is too useful, and the men of the family too apathetic but, undoubtedly, she is looked upon as an inferior animal by the other sex. Les femmes sont si ignorantes, as a man said to me, with good-natured con@tempt and certainly they cannot discuss the politics and resources of their country with the glib intelligence displayed by nearly all the men but the country  in a queer condition without their industry and energy. The men mostly slouch a good deal, the result of a lazy, useless life, spent in wanderings up and down the village street, and ceaseless gossip, varied by an occasional expedition with their guns into the country but the women have a fine upright carriage, owing to their long habitude of balancing heavy articles upon their heads. The dress of the men at Bastia, and indeed all over Corsica, differs little from that of the English working classes, and generally consists of brown fustian or black velveteen. The only variety is caused by the wide-awake hat, the high boots, and the invariable strap across the shoulder support@ing the large yellow gourd, which, hanging at their side, contains their wine. The women dress very quietly, nearly always in black or w@hite, or some equally sober shade. They wear a skirt and jacket of different materials, with a large white or black handkerchief tied under the chin. This handkerchief, when pulled well for@ward, is a good protection against the  in the heat of summer, most of them perch upon it an enormous low-crowned, flat-brimmed, white straw hat, as big as an ordinary parasol, which, as it bears no trimming whatever, is somewhat trying even to a good-looking face. You never see a Corsican woman's hair, which is a pity, as there is reason to believe it is often pretty and luxuriant. Every Corsican carries a huge cotton umbrella-red, green, or brilliant blue-both for the heavy rains and for protection from the sun. Our first view of the Hotel de France somewhat appalled us. The street in which it is situated is a fine one-the finest in Corsica-wide and full of handsome houses but the entrance to the hotel was mean and dark, and the outside decidedly dirty. The first hotel in Corsica, after leaving luxurious Italy, is certainly a shock to a @@sensitive mind and that at Bastia does not@@ let you down gently. The food is good @@and abundant, the charges very reasonable,, and the people exceedingly good-natured @@but the stone hall and narrow staircase  the bedrooms dingy, and the floors and walls not above suspicion. Nevertheless, the Hotel de France is the best in Bastia and, although we did not find it clean, we probably should have found the other hotels of which there are several a good deal dirtier. Our fat friend, who had established him@self as our guide and protector through the custom house and streets, and who had given his arm to one of our party who was in a shaky condition, owing to the voyage, now left us in the hotel hall, bidding us farewell till dinner time, and commending us to the care of M. Stauffe. It was an amusing table d'hôte at six o'clock. There were about eighteen or twenty gentlemen, all Corsicans, we being the only representatives of our sex. All were exceedingly lively, our stout friend especially being the centre of much repartee and rapid argument. As usual in Corsica, the conversation, carried on in very good French, was almost exclusively devoted to political questions, which were discussed very freely,  much animation that now and then hot words seemed imminent but they always passed away in a joke. Our friend, after living so long abroad, found his opinions rather too cosmopolitan for his neighbours, and they hammered away at each other with an amazing free@dom and familiarity. But the old fellow continued to take a great interest in us, interspersing his political talk with polite remarks across the table, and recommending to us in turn nearly every dish. If we seemed to approve of any of these, he became quite excited, nodding his head with many smiles, and remarking in a satisfied tone, Bon, bon, bon ! This was repeated so often, being only diversified by an occasional Bien, bien, bien ! that it was quite impossible to resist laughing, which at length we all did, in@cluding himself. Mais avouez, mademoiselle, he re@marked to No. 3,@@ qu'il y a de beaux plats dans la Corse. Sans doute, she replied, politely and many other beautiful things, I  oui ! @he returned, smiling. Un beaux pays. Et, with a sudden happy thought, turning towards a good-looking young man seated next him, and who did not attempt to disclaim the compliment, de beaux gardens ! Blonds, co@@mme lui. Et noirs-comme moi ! The fair young man turned upon him quite fiercely. You a garçon ? he asked. How old are you ? I am twenty-four. And I forty-seven-un bel age ! His neighbour pulled his long yellow moustaches with a scornful laugh. You are an old man-voilà ! said he, curtly. The wind that night at Bastia was re@markable. This part of the coast is noted for its constant and varying gales. Whether this particular wind were the Sirocco, or the Grecale, or the Libecchio, or any other of the various currents which afflict this town, I know not but it was a most unpleasant wind, and one that seemed especially weird in the darkness of night. My bedroom was a thorough Corsican room not a bolt nor a lock  and doors and windows were confidingly open to every sound within doors, and every breeze without. Chimneys and roofs constituted the chief look-out, but my view likewise comprised, between the two high towers of the church of St. Jaen, a small stretch of blue black sea, lying heaving angrily in the fitful moonlight, with now and then a gleam of sheet lightning illuminating its dark bosom. Wonderfully still and soundless was the night air, until suddenly, every quarter of an hour or so, came a wild gust that rattled loose slates outside, and shook the doors and windows as if they were wrested by some violent human hand. This sort of thing, repeated all night long at short intervals, and accompanied by a dismal howling like the wails of lost souls in purgatory, is not exactly conducive to repose and my first night on Corsican soil was spent in pondering over insular phe@nomena, and speculating how many would be of an equally disturbing nature. We spent several days in Bastia, during which time, either the sirocco, or one of  continued to blow with unabated vigour and, as I found an equally squally wind in possession on my return many weeks later, I concluded that this sort of thing had been going on all the time. For which reason alone, if for no other, I infer that Bastia is not a desirable place for a prolonged residence. It does not take very long to explore the town. It is a rather compact place of about eighteen thousand inhabitants, curiously built, as are most Corsican towns, running up the side of a hill, with one large main street, joined to the lesser ones by flights of steps, or more often by steep stony ascents. The houses are perfect factories for height and baldness of architecture, being, how@ever, a shade cleaner and less repulsive-looking than in any other Corsican town, except perhaps Ajaccio. Seven stories is the usual height some of the houses having windows closely barred and wired the remains perhaps of the outward symbols of a vendetta in higher life than is now the fashion . It is the only town in the  Ajaccio, which really has any shops to speak of but they are rather difficult for an English person to find, as compara@tively few of them have shop windows, and you have to peer in through dark, dingy doorways, to perceive the wares sold within. It took us nearly half an hour to find the photographer, and a long walk up steps, and down steps, and through gardens, among which an occasional guiding placard encouraged our wearying search. But, on the other hand, I found quite an ornamental straw hat, trimmed with blue wool, was to @be bought for the modest sum of fivepence halfpenny in the high street ! Judging from their shops, the people of Bastia must be uncommonly fond of sweets. The streets are pretty equally divided between the patisserie and confisserie shops, and the coiffeurs, with here and there a jeweller's window. But the best jewellery shops and they are not much to speak of are in the Rue St. Jaen, behind the church and here, as in duty bound, we invested in little yellow gourds and silver-mounted daggers. These  smaller ones made of@ coral, ebony, or silver, in silver sheaths, and the larger ones of metal-are inscribed with the fatal words, Vendetta, or La mort, and are very thrilling to a stranger. But the thrill cools somewhat when one learns, as we did later on, that whatever may have been the fashion in olden times, the dagger is now com@paratively unknown to the Corsicans, and its use confined to the Italian and Con@tinentale. Probably, in the days when the vendetta was the fashion amongst the upper classes, the dagger was its usual instrument of vengeance but now that murdering is banished in great part to the lower ranks, guns and pistols have almost entirely taken its place. The Hotel de Ville at Bastia, with its high flight of steps, and containing some specimens of native marble, is considered a fine building but to eyes fresh from Florence, the land of enchanted palaces, there was not much to admire about it. The same may be said of the church of St. Jaen. Its two high towers were im@posing at a distance, but otherwise  was commonplace. Inside were some large Norman arches of white marble and the different altars were surrounded by balustrades and pavements of local marbles -green, and red, and variegated-curious, but not nearly so beautiful as the Italian marbles. The six or seven wide steps up to the church door were covered by groups of picturesque, barefooted, dirty little children, who roamed unchecked in and out of the building, laughing and chatting, and occasionally enjoying a game of hide-and-seek behind the pillars. Some black-robed women, and a man with tin-tacks in his mouth, were busy arranging a large figure of the Madonna on a pedestal within the altar-rail, in front of the principal altar. This position of dignity was no doubt owing to the approaching month of May, or month of Mary but also partly, as a good woman informed us in a whisper, because of the present severe affliction of bad weather under which the country was suffering. The prayers of Mary, besieged as her ear would be, in this position, night and day by the petitions of believers,  was hoped, effect a mitigation of the evil. The image was of china, life size, highly coloured, with golden crown, pink cheeks, and blue robe, and was placed upon a pedestal about five feet high, from the sides of which sprung a large arch of white roses and gold tinsel, which completely encircled the Madonna. This pedestal was being covered by the devotees, who bowed the knee each time on passing the image, with coloured stuffs and white lace, and be@decked with many brass candlesticks and vases of artificial flowers. It struck me as a singular fact, that in a country so grandly prolific of beautiful flowers as Corsica, the artificial should be preferred to the real. Continuing our walk through the curious, narrow, stony streets, where in one place we had to run the gauntlet of a large bonfire in a very small byeway, over which the Bastia urchins, with bare legs, leaped to an inspiring tune of their own chanting, we arrived at the bastion walls. They are high and picturesque, but not to be com@pared with those of Calvi or Bonifacio. Here, also, we came upon a market  dear oranges, and with gay stuffs ranged upon open carts or stalls for peasant purchase. The best looking end of the town is near the landing-stage. A fine quay stretches out for some distance, and there is a good harbour, generally floating one or two fine steamers from Africa or Marseilles. There is also, of course, a statue of Napoleon on t@he place in front of the quay, and here the soldiers, in their gay uniforms of blue and red, drill unceasingly, and daily parade the town twice to the oft-repeated tune of their particular local march. Forde CHAPTER III. THE GROTTO OF BRANDO. NOTWITHSTANDING the cold wind and the uncertain weather, we could not leave Bastia without an expedition in the Cap Corse direction. Cap Corse is the northern peninsula of Corsica, stretching out into the Mediterranean for many miles, like a long tongue. At its extremity are fine rocks and one or two lighthouses, but these we w@ere fated not to see. We started from the hotel in good time, leaving behind No. 1, who preferred the quaintness of the Bastia architecture, and wished to sketch in the streets. Our equipage was a little open carriage, drawn by a pair of lively chestnut ponies that went like the wind and we were further escorted by Bigemark -a black and tan quadruped apparently belonging  pointer breed, intelligent and affec@tionate, but not endowed with the fatal gift of beauty, and possessed of barely a remnant either of ears or tail. Our first object was to see the Caves of Brando, wonderful grottos of limestone formation, in the hill@side close by the seashore, about seven miles from Bastia. The road to Brando was charming, fol@lowing the shore the whole way, about a dozen yards above the sea level the slope downwards being clothed with splendid cacti, and with groves of olive, orange, cherry, walnut, and fig trees, with here and there an ilex. Out of the forests, the two common trees of Corsica are the olive and the ilex and beautifully they harmonize together, the rich shining green of the ilex contrasting effectively with the silver grey of the olive. The forest trees consist chiefly of pines, firs, and beeches, varied by a few oaks and cedars and the chestnut woods generally stand alone. Bordering the slope, and amongst the olives, bloomed flowers of every  colour whilst great grasses, pale pink asphodel, and giant golden spurge, grew like young trees among the rocks, and all along the roadside the weird prickly pear raised its ghostly arms in a huge hedge. Beyond this, almost from beneath our feet, stretched far away the@ wide sweep of Mediterranean, sparkling with countless flashes, and bearing on its laughing bosom the islands of Capraya, Elba, and Monte Christo. Monte Christo was but a blue cone above the waters and Capraya, though larger, was cloudy and mysterious but Elba lay before us majestically grand in the dappled sunlight, precipitous walls of barren rock and smiling hillside standing out in a fine contrast. On the other side of the road, and rising steeply up, were rocky hills, well clothed with the sweet-smelling macchie whilst, between every rocky rift, showed glimpses of wilder mountains, the inland chain of Corsica, raising their grey heads from misty veils of morning. Macchie, in Corsica, is a word that means much. It is, literally, scrub or  but it is, practically, one of the most perfect garments ever woven by nature. It may be thick or thin, but is generally composed of a dense mass of shrubs, from two to four feet high, massed over and carpeted under by the richest and most luxuriant flowers. The pink and the white cystus, the common weed of Corsica, which covers miles of country with its red or snow-white bushes on their sturdy growth, is the usual foundation of the macchie but mingled with it are a score of other low growing plants, of various and often aromatic scents. Here, by the Bastia road, where the hills sloped gently up from the road, the macchie grew closely but where the grey and green and red rocks rose more steeply, the plants could only hang in the crevices over@head-here a cystus, and there a purple thistle, with the little crimson cyclamen peeping out of every cranny, and the bright lizards darting across the sunny stones. Very beautiful was this first view of the Corsican rocks, and of the wide sea pano@rama of historic islands, each telling  grandeur its own history of ad@venture, heroism, or the stern freaks of fortune. The very name of Monte Christo seemed to launch one into dim dreams of wild peril and desperate attempt whilst the dark cliffs of Elba frowned in a stern harmony to their tale of the despotic emperor, whose heart for a time beat in impotent resistance against its prison walls. What a satire it seemed, to place that proud, all-conquering Corsican on an island from whose heights he could plainly see the rugged mountains of his native land-almost smell the sweet odours of the macchie-covered hills, wafted across his childhood's sea, from her to him ! At last, in a blue bay where little breakers dashed merrily, the red ponies w@ere sud@denly reined up. Bigemark came-@to the carriage door to offer his congratulations, and our taciturn coachman informed us we were at Brando. At the same time he obligingly pointed out to us, up the side of the steep hill, a stony watercourse, down which ran a lively little stream, and which, he told us, was the path to the  this we accordingly went, with one hand keeping a desperate clutch on our straw hats which evinced a strong disposi@tion to obey the invitation of the sirocco, and fly away for a nearer view of Capraya , and, with the other, rescuing what garments we could from the running stream. About half-way up the hill we were met by an aged but lively crone, who with another woman escorted us to the caves, informing us, as we supposed for it was quite impossible to understand her toothless jumble of bad French and Italian patois , that she was the custodian of the place. The grottos belong to a private family, of the name of Ferdinandi, who have made the winding staircases, and whose name, on the stone slab fixed in the rock outside, is appended to the intimation that this their work is devoted to the enjoyment of all lovers of beauty.@, Leading us by the hand, and laughing much at our evident want of comprehension of all the interesting facts with which she was beguiling the short way, our cavern crone opened a little wooden door in  of the cliff, and ushered us straight into a Gothic-roofed hall of limestone, the reception room in this winding gallery of nature's building. Here we were told by gesture to remain until our guides returned. We accordingly sat down on a block of limestone, which constituted the one chair in this chilly, half-stuff@y hall, semi-darkness revealing the grey white w@alls and roof, and the rude staircase up which had gone our two companions to light up the many hanging lamps necessary to illuminate the caves. In about ten minutes they returned, and we then proceeded up the same staircase, cut roughly out of the rock, into the heart of the cliff. Overhead hung countless glittering stalactites, whilst on each side the most fantastic walls enclosed us, the dim rays of the oil lamps throwing open tracery and arched roof into wierdest shadows and gleams of sparry radiance. Here and there the path was broken, and in some places we had to bow humbly beneath the drooping arch sometimes up, and sometimes down, we went on in  labyrinth for about ten minutes before we turned and came back by another path. The limestone formations probably extend much further into the cliff but the winding pathway goes no further, and one can only be thankful that Corsican energy has effected so much. The forms of some of the stalag@mites were most curious, rising like Alpine ranges, with an infinity of Matterhorns, above many a little hollowed nook, or like the carved screen behind some marble altar some so delicate in tracery and so trans@parent that a light, held behind them, lit them up like finely veined cream-coloured glass whilst the stalactites overhead were countless and most graceful, often passing below their stalagmitic brethren and falling between them in a rich confusion of spiral carving. What a glare it seemed when we emerged again from fairyland, out among the arbutus and the foxgloves on the green hillside, overlooking the dazzling sea ! The old woman was merrier than ever after her short incarceration in Mother Earth, and held out her capacious  our fees sending after us many good wishes, which I have no doubt were as sincere as her witticisms were pungent, but which unfortunately were quite lost upon us. The stipulated sum to see the caves of Brando is a franc and a half each person. It seems a good deal at first but the visitors are no doubt few, and the expense of so many lights rather heavy. In a minute or two more, we and the red ponies and Bigemark were off again, trotting on to the marina, or little sea hamlet of Sisco. A mile or two past Brando, we came in sight of Erbalunga, a most picturesque little village lying on a low tongue of land right out into the Mediterranean, a Genoese round tower at its furthest end, standing on black rocks washed incessantly by the breaking waves. Towards one o'clock we reached our baiting place, a seashore village which appeared to consist of one house, namely, the dirty and unpretentious inn before which we stopped. Since leaving Brando, the road had become sterner, the  and the flowers more scanty the green groves disappearing from the water@side, and being replaced by great blocks of granite and porphyry. Feeling a little doubtful as regarded lunch, we entered the inn door, and pick@ing our way across the very dirty floor of the outer room, in which were assembled some half dozen or so of peasant men and women, with the usual accompaniment of dogs and guns, we were shown by the host into an inner apartment, and supplied with two rickety chairs. The floor of this apartment was not much cleaner than the other, and a bedstead lately in use filled one end of it. But a capital smell of cooking came from the kitchen on the other side, and through the grimy little window gleamed the bluest sweep of sea and sky. After some conver@sation with our host, a hairy, black bearded man of polite and sociable proclivities, smoking a short pipe, we discovered that the culinary resources of the establishment consisted of an omelette. But, sniffing again incredulously, and stating our  that something better was secreted in the little kitchen, after some hesitation, a soup tureen, containing the most savoury smelling soup, was brought to us. Look here, mesdames, said the land@lord confidentially, @@@I have two more ladies upstairs, lodging here young ladies, whose home is in the Cap, and this is their soup. But, if you will not take too much, you shall have some. The ladies have also my best room, or you would not have had to put up with this poor apartment. Whilst making his polite speeches, and they were many, our host constantly half raised his fur cap from his bushy hair but he continued to smoke his short black pipe. Whilst we were eating our soup, he drew a chair up to the table, and continued the conversation. You are Continentales, ladies, are you not ? Are you Frenchwomen ?@@@ No, monsieur, we are English, we replied, feeling gently flattered by the com@pliment to the purity of our French accent. It was not until some time later that  discovered that the Corsican lower orders, although often speaking the French tongue tolerably fluently, yet were not very correct judges of the French accent. And I confess my vanity received a shock when a young Corsican gentleman at Corte, who had travelled a good deal and lived some time in Paris, remarked, almost before I had opened my mouth, You are English, I perceive, mademoiselle ? One discovers that at once by your accent ! This gentleman was very agreeable, and gave me some interesting information about his country but, from his opening speech, I could have told him, however good his accent, that he was not a Frenchman. Ah ! said the landlord, thoughtfully, English, to be sure. They travel a great deal, for they are all rich, as rich as pos@sible. No, said I some of them are very poor. Whereat our black friend laughed incredulously. It is simply impossible to convince any uneducated Corsican that England is not a nation composed exclusively of  He thinks every English person has his pocket full of gold. England, although well known to them all by name, is to them a sort of Ultima Thule and the mere fact of a journey taken from such a distance for purposes of pleasure, seems to them conclusive upon the point. How can you say you are not wealthy when you have come all this way to amuse yourselves ? was frequently said to us in a tone of conviction. This being the popular notion, it is much to the credit of the people, and a proof of the national simplicity and honesty, that imposition and overcharging to strangers is almost unknown. A little stir outside now attracted the attention of the landlord, and he left us to finish our lunch alone. This appeared to me a favourable opportunity for depriving the Cap Corse young ladies of a little more of their good soup, and I was just going to help myself to a second basinful when the old woman who had spread the table for us, and who no doubt had suspected my felonious intentions, entered from  and abruptly bore off the tureen upstairs. So I had to content myself with munch@ing some sour bread, which my companion was already sharing with a happy family gathered around, consisting of three cats, a dog, two pigeons, and a hen. They did not seem to share our objections to the bread which we found difficult to swallow, even when soaked in the good red wine upon the table. The peninsula of Cap Corse is celebrated for its red and white wines, which even in the sixteenth century, we are @told by the native historian Fillipini, were exported to the Continent and much thought of. In some particulars, this northern district of Cap Corse bears a stamp of its own, apart from the customary Corsican character. It is one of the most fertile districts in the island. Oranges and lemons, and the fruit called the cédrat, which is neither orange nor lemon, but something between the two, and is much preserved, grow here luxuriantly whilst vineyards flourish in every direction.  valleys all along the coast, and especially the Vale of Luri, are green and cultivated and the population is thicker and more well-to-do than in the other parts of the island. The land certainly is rich and peculiarly friendly to the growth of vines, but the secret perhaps lies in the superior energy of the Cap Corse people. For several centuries they have mani@fested an industry truly unpatriotic, and a corresponding neglect of warlike pursuits. Among the gentler inhabitants of this district it was, too, that Christianity found its first converts on the island, from them gradually spreading to the sterner tribes southward and tradition asserts that St. Paul, amongst his many perils by sea, braved the dangers of this rocky coast, and landed somewhere on Cap Corse as its first missionary. Sisco also, Gregorovius tells us, possesses a marine church dedicated to St. Catherine, and containing some very remarkable relics, such as the rod with which Moses smote the Red Sea, almonds from the  and even a piece of the lump of earth from which Adam was modelled ! I saw no church in or near Sisco during my short stay there but, had I then been aware of the reputed possession of these treasures, I should certainly have made some efforts to discover its whereabouts. We were still struggling with the sour bread when the landlord re-entered. He had rather a triumphant smile upon his countenance, as he remarked quietly, You cannot go back to Bastia you must stay here. Your carriage is all broken to pieces. That is unfortunate, said we but we could not stop here, quand même we could walk back to Bastia, it is not ten miles. And, leaving the happy family, we walked outside to see the truth of the assertion. A little crowd of about a dozen people, constituting, I fancy, all the population of the village of Sisco, had gathered round the inn, watching the course of events with a sort of phlegmatic interest. Our carriage w@as gone from its original position in the middle of the  by the wall of the inn yard, with one red pony standing quietly beside it, and the other enjoying a canter on @his own account about a quarter of a mile off, and rapidly becoming a speck in t@he distance. As we came up, our driver advanced to us, with the pole and part of the carriage in his hand, saying curtly, with the first smile we had yet seen upon his counte@nance, The carriage is broken. To use a slang expression, we both felt a little floored. Yes, we replied to this incontrovertible fact but don't you think you had better catch the pony ? Jehu acquiesced silently, and proceeded in a leisurely manner up the road, where, assisted by another man, he managed to capture the recalcitrant pony in an in@credibly short space of time. Well, we inquired when he returned and how are we to continue our journey ? You cannot. Won't the carriage hold together ? Mais non ! And how are we to get back to Bastia  I will mend it up enough for that. It was impossible to be angry with such a piece of placid indifference as this man, however much one might wish it one might as well have been angry with a sack of wheat. So we left him, humming softly to him@self, to mend up the carriage as best he could, whilst we walked on towards the Cap for a two or three hours' stroll. The sun now lay hot upon the shadeless road, which began to mount gently, keep@ing, however, close above the seashore, and always bastioned on its other side by rocky walls, which after a while gave place to massive lordly hills, green and steep, more than one surmounted by ruined tower or long deserted cloister, braving in solitary grandeur the eastern gales that sweep each crag-topped eminence. It was a beautiful walk only a little bit marred by the unpleasant attentions of two men in a mule cart. They passed once, stopping the conveyance to offer us a seat, which we declined and afterwards  calling after us from a wayside inn, w@here they had stopped. On returning homeward, we were not overpleased to see our persecutors again coming after us in their blue blouses @and black wide-awakes. Apparently their journey had been no further than to the inn and it was pro@bably not the first inn they had visited, for they were more pressing and less agree@able than ever. One man went so far as to jump down from his seat, insisting upon the advantages of a drive in the cart and it was only by walking on rapidly, with the damping remark that we did not understand a word they said which, as they spoke a harsh Italian patois, was nearly true , that we at length managed to get rid of them. This, I must remark, was the sole occasion on which any one of us experienced any rudeness or unpleasantness from the be@haviour of any grown up Corsican man or woman. One could scarcely say as much for many more frequented countries, after incessant travelling for several weeks in their loneliest and wildest  nearing Sisco, we met the carriage, driver, and ponies coming slowly towards us. See, said the coachman, with a gay, placid smile, am I not a good workman ? And he pointed to the pole and broken carriage, pieced together by his bits of string. He really seemed to think the breakage altogether quite a clever affair. How did the accident originally hap@pen ? we inquired. The ponies ran up against the wall whilst I was out of sight for a moment, was the careless reply. The man was evidently not a fool, but his comfortable phlegm surpassed anything I ever saw, out of Corsica. On the road home, we passed another round tower standing lonely by the roadside overlooking the sea, and No. 3 got out to sketch it. It was-like all the Genoese towers which strew the country, standing erect on every high cliff and commanding hill-perfectly round and not very lofty, but of immense thickness, and but little  our coac@hman had not profited much by his morning's lesson for, whilst we sat by the roadside, he found it more to his taste to come and look over our shoulders than to remain by his carriage. The ponies were anxious to get home, and would not stand. They had already taken the empty carriage, with no guard save Bigemark, half across the road, when I pointed out the fact to Jehu. Oh, said he, composedly, they will stand. But, said No. 2, they are not stand@ing they are moving now. Again he smiled silently. Is it your carriage ? I demanded of the imperturbable man. Mais non ! Whose, then ? M. Stauffe, sans doute. Poor M. Stauffe ! I am sorry for him. His carriages must come expensive. Jehu gave a momentary stare, and then took the hint, and departed to his ponies. No town could look more lovely than did Bastia as we returned homewards.  by a foreground of noble cacti and of green hills on one side, and blue sea on the other, the shipping stood out against a crimson sky, and the white houses lay in the soft evening light against a range of pink and blue and purple mountains. The wind had moderated, and the Medi@terranean, as we entered the town and passed along the broad quay, lay like a shining sapphire against the dark mole but the calm was delusive, for at night again the sirocco resumed its sway, and a few hours later a vivid thunderstorm was rolling over the angry sea. Not much beyond Sisco lies Pino, a village on the western shore, surrounded by gardens, vineyards, and the residences of some of the wealthiest of the islanders. Not far from it is the celebrated tower of Seneca, a round tower standing in stern solitude on the summit of a pointed rock rising from amongst the mountains and overlooking two seas. We were very sorry not to see this tower, although it is very doubtful whether it deserves its name, and whether the Roman philosopher, during  years' exile in the uncongenial land of Corsica, did really frequent these rocky wilds in preference to the neighbouring towns of Mariana or Aleria. Corsican savagery and Corsican character were un@palatable and incomprehensible to the courtly, selfish stoic, and his comments upon his hosts are little flattering. He calls them liars, robbers, revengeful, and irreligious, and will not even admit the natural beauties of this rude island, desolate in situation, scanty in products, and unhealthy in climate. But the unhappy position of poor Seneca may well explain his ill-temper. He might write long-winded letters of consolation to his mother, inculcating the beauty of resig@nation and of a calm indifference to earthly surroundings but I have no doubt the sour bread and stony roads tried the equanimity of the polished Roman just as much as they do that of the fastidious traveller now@adays, who moreover comes, unlike Seneca, by his own will and for his own  IV. TO ISOLA ROSSA. OUR first long expedition in the island was what may be called the north-western tour, embracing the best part of a circle, and comprising St. Florent, lie Rousse and Calvi thence on to Corte. This tour I think is a good one to begin with, as it is on the whole less interesting and beautiful than the others. After the first day's drive, it does not abound so very much in beauties, and it does abound to a remarkable degree, even for Corsica, in dirt. Yet, although not so wildly beautiful as some of our expeditions, there was much that was exceedingly picturesque and curious and Calvi, above all, is a town worth going far to see. There is only one way of travelling in Corsica, for those who wish to see  the country and obtain any enjoyment from their travels and that is, in a private, hired carriage, which-driver, horses, and carriage-may be had at a reasonable rate per day. From Bastia we started in style, with a roomy carriage and three horses, for which luxurious equipage we paid thirty francs a day but charges are higher here than at Ajaccio, and, in our other rounds, we obtained an equally good carriage and two horses, with a very superior coachman, for twenty francs a day. This is the usual charge all over the island, and includes the keep of both driver and horses but half the return journey is expected to be paid, as well as a douceur of about two francs a day to the man. In this case, the excuse was the hilly roads and our heavy luggage, necessitating a third horse but I think our inexperience was the real cause of the difference. It is as well to fix the bargain beforehand, and also to make some inquiries regarding the man to whom you entrust your precious lives and limbs for several  roads, a tipsy or inefficient driver would be no joke. For the comfort of timid travellers I may, however, as well remark, that every Corsican seems born to handle the reins, as a South Sea Islander to swim and, although very furious drivers, they are remarkably safe ones. Also, that their undoubtedly thirsty habits interfere wonderfully little with their duties. For instance, the drowsiness which is prone to take possession of many Corsican drivers after the midday halt and thence@forth, and which causes them to nod ominously on the box, has no effect ap@parently upon a sort of sixth sense, which wakes them up by instinct just in time for a sharp turn, a steep descent, or a bad bit of road. This Bastia coachman of ours-a big, rough, bullet-headed fellow-was not the most sober of mankind but, although probably the worse for drink every evening when off duty, he took care not to overstep the nodding stage when in its discharge. More than once, at the approach of some nasty corner or sudden precipice, the  an umbrella was levelled at the small of his back but it never had cause to culminate in a prod, for, precisely at the necessary moment, the furry cap adorning the unkempt head, raised itself, and the brown hands tightened their hold upon the loose reins. The best course, however, is to forget both bad road and sleepy driver in the glorious prospect that seldom is wanting in Corsica for a system of nervous watch@fulness is not conducive to comfort or enjoyment. It was not an auspicious day on which we started on our tour. After an early breakfast, we left the Hotel de France at eight o'clock in pouring rain, and began mounting the steep ascent to the Col Teghine. Steep, indeed, was the hill, and very long and the position of the third horse was no sinecure. Fortune, however, favours the brave and before an hour was over, the sun came peeping forth through many a dark rift, blue clouds rose up and filled the gaps, and the sunlight glanced  dewy flower and crystal-covered olive grove. Thenceforth, the day was fine, and showed to advantage one of the most beautiful drives that can well be imagined. Steep rose the green hills above and below us, with the blue sea at every turn stretching wide before us, and bringing out into clearer prominence its three islands, whilst the opposite shore of Tuscany lay a soft blue line on the horizon. On the lower slope, groups of olive, orange, and lemon trees-the two latter in full fruit-and the sun shining gaily on the many golden halls above us, banks of cystus, shining arbutus and Mediterranean heath, with foaming cascades pouring down from the rocky hillsides, and rose-coloured cyclamen and golden broom bending lovingly above their banks. Bastia, looked down upon from this road, had a very picturesque appearance. It seemed the only bit of life on the wide, desolate-looking plain which stretched away into dim distance to the south, bordered on one side by the sea, and on the other by the inland range of hills, and enclosing an arm of the sea called the Lake of  is said to have been a Roman settlement and several large towns in this region long ago but now, all along the extensive plain, the eye can only make out one small village, and it has a pale, deserted look, as if unloved by nature or by man. And not without reason. From Bastia downwards, almost to the southernmost extremity of the island, this eastern coast is flat, marshy, and malarious. A man of forty is an old man in this fatal district. Even the natives fly from it, leaving its shores barren and uncultivated and the poor Italian labourer, who, more industrious than his Corsican neighbour, comes over the sea in spring to till the soil, creeps up each night into the moun@tains, to avoid sleeping in the deadly air. When at length we reached the summit of the Col Teghine, the view was magnifi@cent. We were on a narrow ridge 1735 feet high-on one side looking down upon the eastern coast on the other, upon scat@tered mountains of every strange form, and a vast panorama of western sea and coast. The large gulf of San Fiorenzo lay  indescribably blue and, into it, stretched out arm after arm of wildest red and purple rocks, glowing far, far below in the cloudless atmosphere. Anything more beautiful than those far-away vivid rock ranges beneath our feet, it would be im@possible to conceive and as for a moment, with our hands full of lovely flowers, we paused on the lonely sky-surrounded pass, and threw ourselves down on the rich maquis, a little lark rose from beside us, in the still mountain hush, and gave voice to nature's meaning. In another moment we began the long descent to St. Florent, sur@rounded by wild and rugged mountains, the sea always beneath us, the steep road winding along the flanks of barer and less verdant hills, the maquis more abundant, and the flowers rarer than on the other side. For an hour or more we gallopped down, passing a picturesque high towered church, and finally going over a flat plain by the winding shores of the lake-like gulf of St. Florent. Then, with a sudden turn, into a narrow unsavoury little street, where our carriage could scarcely pass, and up to the  of a very uninviting inn, whose interior, however, proved superior to its exterior. Inns and innkeepers in Corsica may be most correctly described as uninviting. Whatever flourish of trumpets you make on arriving, and however rare an event may be the advent of a carriage of any de@scription, the proprietors never appear to welcome you and you are expected to toil panting upstairs, all your baggage in your arms, before meeting with any assistance. And this very often in a place where the excitement of a foreigner's coming has been sufficient to rouse the entire population, and send a score or two of shrieking children at your heels. The hall and staircase of this particular inn were remarkably still and deserted and being then unused to Corsican eccen@tricities, we felt doubtful, after one or two silent flights, whether the stone staircase led to anything more promising than empty chambers. But at length, a long, low salle-a-manger burst upon us round a corner and here, with the assistance of a nice dog, and in company with a party of  Germans lately deposited by the diligence, we managed to get through some rather sheepy mutton cutlets, good cheese, cakes, and wine, for the modest sum of fifteen pence a-piece. We were likewise offered a dish of raw ham but this, although included gratis in the bill of fare, we declined politely. St. Florent is a small and rather dirty village, placed in most picturesque fashion by the edge of the sea. Some of the houses are built upon a narrow ridge of black rocks running out into the sea, and have both back and front washed by the waves and sprinkled by the surf on stormy days. It has a nice little quay, along which were several good coasting vessels at anchor. From the inn, whose base was at the water's edge, was a lovely view, spreading across bright blue sea, and over the houses on their rocky ledge to the rosy tinted range of hills behind. We were to rest here two hours, and determined to take a sketch. But, being about noon, the sun was blazing down upon@ unsheltered white road and on the hard brown rocks in an unpleasant manner. So Nos. 2 and 3 crept up a perpendicular bit of cliff, on to a narrow, steep ledge, where there was a foot or two of shade and here, with the cliff overhanging their perch, and the wonderful water, malachite and purple in its lights and shadows, beneath them, indulged in happy contem@plation and artistic effort. But, alas ! solitude and silent reflection are not possible to the English traveller in Corsica and although the boys of St. Florent were a most superior lot, kind and gentlemanly, they very soon invaded our retreat-creeping along to us on hands and knees for our ledge necessitated this lowly position , and offering for sale some pretty shells, freshly gathered from their sea bed. For the modest sum of three soldi, or three halfpence, I invested in half a dozen of these. But my St. Florent shells never reached England. Happening to look up from my sketch a few minutes later, I found that the little heap beside me had all  themselves over the side of the cliff whilst one particular beauty, that I had put in my pocket, having taken a little longer to free himself from his embarrassing situation, was yet in sight, making the best of his hermit-crab way back to mother sea. The small salesman evidently did not belong to the anti-vivisection society, for, seeing my discomfiture, he borrowed a hairpin with much solemnity, and catching the poor crab in mid career, began to pick him out, raising his large brown eyes to us in silent affliction when our humanitarian principles forced us to stop this proceeding. On returning towards the shore, we found a small crowd of kindly intentioned women and boys gathered on the rocks beneath, to assist us in our perilous descent. Notwith@standing this little obstruction, however, we managed to alight safely, and rejoin No. 1, who, from her baking seat below, had been regarding our amphibious pro@ceedings with some anxiety. Directly after leaving San Fiorenzo, we began to ascend, the town behind us lying on its little peninsula among the wide  like a crystal, and backed by hills glowing vividly in the hot noonday sun. In an hour or two we reached the summit of the Col Cerchio, where the scene changed, the hills beside the road opened out, and revealed to us a fine panorama of inland mountains and villages. The road to lie Rousse lies nearly all the way through barren rocky hills, varied occasionally by greener cones. A wonder@ful, weird-looking mountain of red granite, called Monte Temorro, keeps always in sight, sometimes at one side and some@times at the other of the winding road, but its precipitous bare head never lost. This mountain, in its bleakness, reminds me strongly of the pictures of Quarantana in Palestine. The rocks grew wilder as at length we reached more level ground, and here there were some attempts at agriculture, refresh@ing after so much barren scenery. Jogging along on muleback, we met a man and a woman, both seated on the same beast. It is only round Bastia that the Corsican women affect continental  the side-saddle everywhere else in the island the women ride cavalier style, and side-saddles are unknown. The two were driving before them a large flock of native sheep, black and white. Corsican. sheep are simply lovely. They have long, soft, silky hair, instead of wool, upon their bodies, and their faces are full of expres@sion, with large, pathetic brown eyes. The road now wound again right over the edge of the sea, and the clear green waves dashed against the brown rocks beneath us, and rolled in transparent curls upon the sandy shore for many a mile, watering with spray the rich shrubs that clothed the cliff to the very water's edge. Here, on many a lonely hill overlooking the wide waste of waters, stood a massive, round Genoese watch-tower-half-ruined memorial of a cruel sway now passed, but which for@ centuries crushed out happiness and prosperity, although not resistance, from the heroic little island.@@ It was between six and seven when w@e reached Ile Rousse but long before this, the picturesque promontory from which  its name was visible, standing far out into the bay, blood-red against a sunset sky. The town, neat and tidy, lies at the water's edge, backed by the white snow-cones of Monte Pedro but the rocks themselves are distinct, and are connected with it by a straggling little quay and long wooden bridge. They are composed of a long rough tongue of red sandstone, torn and rent into every picturesque shape, and running out into the sea for about a quarter of a mile. On the furthest rock rose a solemn watch-tower on the nearer one, some grey old ruins. The sun was just setting as we walked over the wooden bridge and climbed upon a high point. The rocks gleamed a fiery red where they caught the last rays, but ghostly black shadows filled their crevices below and the old watch-tower looked grandly out towards the French coast, painted against an orange sky. The road leading up from the quay was shaded by an avenue of trees, and was evidently the favourite evening stroll of  Rousse upper ten. A great number of the inhabitants were here, and we were much edified by the polite manner with which one and all raised their hats to us, wishing us bon soir, one nice-looking Italian sailor, however, varying the salute by offering it in English-we, of course, responding in like manner, greatly to his delight. The bump of manly courtesy is evidently well developed in Ile Rousse for, coming up the street, pursued by a horde of excited children, shouting Inglesé ! the tribe were reprimanded and even caught and pommelled by one or two of the smoking idlers at the street corners. We often experienced courtesy of this sort amongst the Corsican men, who were far too kind and too well-bred to enjoy seeing us mobbed and annoyed by their progeny but unfortunately, as a rule, their remonstrances proceeded no further than words, and for a verbal remonstrance the juvenile Corsican cares but little. These Corsican children were a curious study. In some few places, notably  Propriano, the children were un@boundedly impudent in some few others again, quiet little country villages, they had the modesty and simplicity to be expected in sweet Auburn but these were excep@tions. They are, generally speaking, utterly fearless, but highly intelligent, eager to follow and criticize your every step, and to demand an answer to every question possible regarding your person and your nationality but quite open to friendliness. To those who are neither afraid of them nor angry with them, the pursuing horde will generally, after a few moments, show both civility and politeness. The age of chivalry in Corsica comes early. At thirteen, or even younger, a Corsican boy becomes a courteous young gentleman and we soon learnt to feel at ease regarding our tormen@tors if we saw any approaching to that civilizing period of life. The inn at Ile Rousse was not uncom@fortable, and in appearance was vastly superior to many to which we went later on. We hoped and believed it w@as  of cleanliness but, alas ! hopes and appearances are delusive. The food, how@ever, was excellent. On our return from our twilight walk, we found our little table d'hote dinner awaiting us, consisting of good soup, boiled beef, excellent duck, salad, cheese, gateaux de Corse, and dessert. There were other diners in the general salle but in con@sideration of our sex and our gentility, our dinner was brought to us in a smaller detached room. The diners, however, soon cleared away and when we entered the salle-a-manger to write our letters, we found the young land@lady and her sister quite ready for a chat. This was our first introduction to an almost invariable custom in small Corsican inns. The reserved Briton who would decline the after-dinner chat with his host or hostess, would be considered here a very churlish individual. Our landlady, we found, was quite @a historical character, being no other than the young woman of the@@ rose, named in Mr. Lear's book on Corsica. She was not  so young now as then, it being eleven years since that episode but she was still blooming, and as gay and talkative as a tame parrot and whenever she laughed, and that was not seldom or gently, she shook the long plait of black hair that hung down her back until it danced again. First presenting us each with a handsome bouquet of flowers out of the garden, she and her sister drew their chairs up to the table, and leaning their elbows upon it, prepared for an hour's good gossip. Every one of our nation who had ever visited Ile Rousse was described to us minutely, with the inquiry as to whether we knew him and the visitor's book, with its laudatory remarks and poetical effusions, shown us, with the urgent entreaty that we would translate those of them that were written in English. This we did, refusing, however, when we were requested to indite a poem on our own account therein. This was a sore disappointment to the lady of the rose, who declared emphatic@ally of No. 1 that she had la  ! but who recovered herself the next moment, and begged that we would, on our way upstairs, peep at any rate into the beautiful best bedroom, which she generally gave to her English guests, and which we should have had, had we sent a telegram beforehand to say we were coming, but which unfortunately was now occupied by a Corsian messieur. So much occupied was it, that it was not until we were fairly in the show apartment, that we discovered that the occupant was already in bed, sleeping the sleep of the just ! We were not aware then, what we learnt later on, how necessary a thing it is in Corsica to telegraph one's coming before@hand. It insures a good dinner and, at any rate, a room swept out to a certain degree. You pay a penny a word for telegraphic messages, and there is scarcely a village in the country without its office. Without a telegram, you may arrive to find no rooms, or, what is almost as bad, to be placed in rooms out of which the family have kindly turned for your accommodation. We  by experience to have a perfect horror of these family rooms. The accumulated garments of the family lie about in all directions, your jug and basin are even more lilliputian than else@where, your bed quilt is grimy they do not often supply you with blankets in Corsica , and the apartment appears, from its fuggi@ness, never@ to have known the luxury of open windows. A gun also occasionally peeps at you from a corner, and a pistol from the mantle@piece and the family run in at all hours for their blacking brushes, their best boots, or a bottle of vin ordinaire on the top of the household chest but these are small matters. Very beautiful looked the sea, lapping against the walls of the houses, and scatter@ing spray over the red rocks, at 6 a.m. next morning but in an hour it had clouded over, and sea and sky and rocks were all leaden grey in a lowering thunderstorm. At nine o'clock, however, it cleared up a little, and we started for Calvi, passing through green meadows and cultivated land  to the village of Algajola by the sea shore. Loving maquis clothed the lime@stone hills as w@e ascended again, looking beyond the grey crags, covered with soft green moss or scarlet leeks, to the village and ancient castle of Lumio. Long before w@e reached them, the snow mountains were raising white heads over the green hills before us and as we paused on the summit of the second pass, the full view of the magnificent bay of Calvi burst upon us, sweeping out as far as the eye could reach, and glowing in the midday sun. Figs, lemons, and prickly pear bordered our road as we descended through rocky hills to the long narrow level tract pre@ceding Calvi and, all the way, the wide blue sea beckoned on one side to the solemn range of snowy Alps upon the other. It is impossible to describe the exceeding picturesqueness of the town and citadel as you approach from. this road. Calvi lies upon a peninsula of high ground jutting out into the sea, and consists of two distinct towns-the lower, at the water's edge and@ upper, which comprises the citadel, built upon the hill. The citadel, with the exception of Boni@facio, is the strongest in the island. Its bastion walls are of an immense height, gleaming white against the blue sky, and their thickness and impregnability are equal to their height. Nine or ten times have these bastion walls been assailed by foes of every nation, including the English, wear@ing out the very heart of the foe by their stern resistance, and often finally foiling his most determined efforts. Planted upon inaccessible rocks com@manding the sea, and formed by the very nature of its position for defence, the Genoese at an early date about the four@teenth century fortified it thus strongly and although sometimes losing it for a while, yet managed to keep it in their hands for long centuries. Bonifacio and Calvi, both to a certain degree colonized by Genoese families, and filled with Genoese soldiers, were for many years the main, and often the only, cords by which this cruel and tyrannical government held on to un@fortunate  In the year 1735, a romantic little in@cident occurred upon this coast. It was towards the conclusion of one of the innumerable Corsican struggles against Genoese despotism, when, in the hopeless but undying cause of liberty, the blood of the islanders had been shed with an un@wearied devotion and unassisted heroism that at last moved the heart of the practical but freedom-loving Briton to a sudden burst of sympathetic feeling. It would be a pity to tell the story in any other words but those of Gregorovius. Their embarrassments had become almost insupportable, when, one day, two strange vessels came to anchor in the Gulf of Isola Rossa Ile Rousse , and began to discharge a heavy cargo of victuals and warlike stores -gifts for the Corsicans from unknown and mysterious donors. The captains of the vessels scorned all remuneration, and only asked the favour of some Corsican wine in which to drink the brave nation's welfare. They then put out to sea again, amid the blessings of the multitude who had as@sembled on the shore to see their foreign  little token of foreign sympathy fairly intoxicated the poor Corsicans. Their joy was indescribable they rang the bells in all the villages they said to one another that Divine Providence, and the Blessed Virgin, had sent their rescuing angels to the unhappy island, and their hopes grew lively that some foreign power would at length bestow its protection on Corsica.@. .@. Generous Englishmen had equipped these two ships.@.@.@ V. THE CURE OF CALVI. DRIVING through an irregular little street with overhanging houses, our coachman suddenly stopped before a dirty stone stair@case. This, he informed us, was the entrance to our hotel. We were suspicious and the event proved how just were our suspicions. It seemed incredible that a large town like Calvi should furnish no better inn than this wretched looking one besides which,@ we had been distinctly advised to go to a certain Madame Puoggi in the Haute Ville,. and this was the Basse Ville. But it was impossible to move our stolid coachman. This was the best, the only inn in Calvi he had never heard of Madame Puoggi there was no inn in the upper town at all. Alas ! we afterwards dis@covered that this degenerate  this, as in other matters and that fate and his obstinacy had led us to the third best inn in the town ! But, unable our@selves to discover the mysterious Madame Puoggi, we were forced to submit to destiny. The sun was shining hotly upon white or what had been white pavement, when we descended from the carriage, and the scene was one of the gayest and most pictorial I ever looked upon. A narrow, uneven street, houses with tumbledown balconies and broken stone staircases, opening out before us to a wide white quay with the gleaming sea along@side, and a row of vessels like Arab dhows at anchor, drying their long drooping sails in the sun. Behind these, the grand old citadel, white and fierce, looking down with the pride of five centuries upon quay and town, and sea and hill and from the opposite coast, as far as the eye could reach northward, a chain of receding blue mountains. Most of the vessels had come from the African coast, bringing a motley array of foreign  our carriage drew up, three ghostly beings, draped in white sheeting from head to foot, with nought but black beard and shining black eyes emerging, stood motion@less, a yard or two off, silently watching our unbelieving footsteps as we entered the inn. Calvi is full of these stately Arabs. Every corner you turn, you find one or two sitting squatting in the sun in their white sheets, still as statues, but silently following you with eyes full of a contemptuous astonish@ment. After a hasty lunch in a room overhang@ing the emerald sea, and where a balcony looked straight into its depths-a room with the most perfect view ever framed by nature, but greatly marred by man's neglect of drainage-we went out to explore the citadel. Passing along the gay quay, and ascend@ing a steep slope of stones and rubbish between the houses, we found ourselves on the hill from whence sprung the bastion walls, surrounded by sea on every side save one. It made one almost giddy to stand at  of these great sloping walls, and look up their lofty face and one felt no surprise at the numerous shocks they had defied. Then, by a steep narrow ascent, cut in the rock and protected by stony walls, we mounted into the heart of the citadel, and the haute ville within. This haute ville, enclosed by the fortifications, is the original old town the basse ville below being of much later date. The houses inside the citadel were all of stone, and although close together, in narrow, winding stony streets, up which no vehicle could possibly go, were built with some attempt at regularity, and were not so dirty looking as those in the lower town. There being absolutely nothing but stone in the haute ville, the streets were com@paratively free from dust, and the high wind that swept over this lofty perch sent a sweet refreshing air through the walled-in causeways. The church stood in the main street, in the centre of the citadel. Repairs were going on inside, and we strolled in, being soon joined by the cure, a man about  a thin pale face and a sweet smile. Gentle goodness was written on the features of this man and very shy was he before three strange Englishwomen, and altogether nervous of his French idioms, but with a Corsican enthusiasm in his wild dark eyes. The church, he told us, was built in 1100, but partially destroyed by fire coming, of course, from an enemy's bombshell ! about two hundred years ago, as an inscription cut upon the outside steps testified. He showed us the old font of black and white and red Corsican marble, belonging to the fifteenth century, of which age also was the marble altar. A strange old bas-relief in the chancel wall was much older than this, and had been only lately found and uncovered. Calvi, said the cure, with his dark eyes glowing, has been bombarded eight or ten times, but she has never succumbed. The church is as strong as the rest of her forti@fications, and has resisted many a siege. She has never been taken, '@si ce n'etait pas par les Anglais.' He showed us a large, badly executed statue of our Lord, placed within a most curious and beautiful  composed of separate small squares of oil-paintings on sacred subjects. See, he said, there used to be a life@size picture of the Saviour inside that frame, and it was very ancient and beautiful. It hung upon that wall opposite, under the western window but the English, in bom@barding our citadel, sent a ball clean through the wall and shot away the picture. So we removed it here behind the altar, and placed this statue within the frame. Ah ! said No. 1, that was. Nelson's doing. Yes, said the cure, with one of his shy bright smiles, it was your great naval commander, Nelson. But, although he took Calvi, and destroyed the picture, @he left an eye behind him ! And this was true enough. But, said No. 3, you Corsicans like the English, do you not ? They have often been friendly to you. Yes, he replied the English are a free nation, and they can feel for those who fight for liberty. We were quite sorry to say good-bye  new friend, as we left him standing on the steps of his grand old church, the wind lifting his black hair, and a farewell smile lighting up the refined, visionary face, as he crossed himself with a thin brown hand. Leaving the church, we wandered amongst the mazes of the little streets, which seemed strangely deserted in the midday sun feel@ing glad at length to leave the strong glare of the citadel, and descend to the sea and lower town. In doing so we missed our way among the many loopholed stone passages, and No. 1, fired by a desire to rouse one of those impassive white statues and hear his voice, stopped short before an Arab crouched upon a step, demanding of him our whereabouts. The white bundle with the swarthy face, however, treated us with the contempt due to our temerity, never even taking the trouble to raise his black eyes, but keeping his stolid gaze fixed upon the sea before him. I began to think these doubled-up men could not move, so motionless were they and felt quite relieved when, later on  evening, I saw them striding, positively running-turbans unloosed, white robes flapping, and shoes and stockings showing-@@up and down the streets, buying provisions preparatory to a start. The shore of the bay surrounding Calvi is wide and smooth, with a fine sand and pretty shells, including a vast number of the mauve-coloured Donax. The morning mists were clearing away, and it was very pleasant to lie here, as we did, basking in the sun, watching snow peak after snow peak, behind the blue hills opposite, slowly unveil itself and stand out in a lovely white glow. The snow looked so close and so cool, bowing over the hot sands, and throwing shadows on to the sea beneath. Coming home across the sandhills, which separate the shore from the level road, we came upon the most perfect and beautiful flowers I ever saw. They were a species of low growing cactus, only rising a few inches from the ground, the blossoms of a most brilliant rose colour. They had the appearance of chrysanthemums, and were about three or four inches across,  sandhills for yards with an unbroken sheet of vivid crimson. Returning to the inn, we found our dinner awaiting us, as well as three native gentle@men, who were anxious to commence operations at their table, but could not do so until our advent. These were the three avocats who, we had been previously informed, unfortunately occupied the three best bedrooms. These individuals we necessarily looked upon as our natural enemies and our prejudice against them was not mitigated by the terrific noise made by them and the pretty waitress together. She was a fat, untidy, golden-haired blonde one of the prettiest women I ever saw in or out of Corsica, but gifted with the strongest faculty for banging about earthenware and metal utensils that could well be imagined. This was the spoilt child of the house, adopted, we were informed, by the dark young hostess because of her superior education, which enabled her to talk French to the guests. And talk French she  the male guests, at any rate standing with arms akimbo against the wall, chaffing Messieurs les avocats to our utter neglect, and making such a babel, between crockery flung about and shriek@ing repartee, that we felt strongly inclined to throw a plate at her touzled golden head. Dinner, however, was achieved at last and on re-entering our rooms, what a sight met us ! The sun had just set, and twilight was creeping on, but the whole of the near range of hills opposite lay bathed in a crimson glow that was almost blood red, and was reflected in the clear waters below. The glow remained for about five minutes, and then gradually faded away into the soft grey of evening. Never in my life did I see anything more beautiful or vivid than that sunset glow at Calvi. Nos. 2 and 3 soon found that no re@tirement was to be had in their chamber. The low open window looked out upon a balcony, which led up by steps direct from the main street of the  window-sill was just of a convenient height for the populace to lean their elbows upon, which they accordingly did, in large numbers. We could only shut out our visitors by closing both windows and inside shutters and we preferred the populace. At last came a swarthy black-browed Italian, introduced by the pretty waitress, whose noisy admirers had departed with their cigars down the street, and who there@fore had nothing better to do than to gossip with us. He was a sailor, and his hands were full of pretty trinkets of coral and lava, picked up by himself. His Italian patois was peculiar, and the waitress acted interpreter, whilst we bar@gained for his wares. He was a queer looking man, as black and dirty as soot and absence of soap and water could make him, with a passionate, cut-throat looking face, that broke out occasionally into childlike smiles. The bargains being completed to every one's satisfaction, No. 1, who alone of us three could make herself understood by our dark friend, plunged him suddenly into  of hopeless confusion and swarthy blushes by requesting of him a song. Oh, madame, I cannot sing ! What ! an Italian sailor not sing ? No, no indeed, madame, I cannot. What, not this ? and madame hummed a gay boating song. If our friend did not sing the song, it was clear that he knew the words of it well, for on hearing them he became greatly excited, seizing both madame's hands in his and pressing them affectionately. Some weeks later, when at Ajaccio, Nos. 2 and 3, strangely enough, again lighted upon our sailor friend. He was standing at the hotel door with a companion, armed with fresh corals and some lovely feathery seaweed. He seemed delighted to see us again, inquiring effusively after No. 1, and informing us that he had worked his way on foot from Calvi. By the time our sailor had departed, it was growing dark. But our visitors were not over. The door opened, and in trooped four or five people, carrying with them the canapie which was to be devoted to  for the night, and proceeding leisurely, amidst much gossip, to make the bed. We understood and tolerated the presence of the master of the house over this cere@mony but I was a little puzzled by the comfortable deportment of a tidily dressed young man, who came in with the rest, examined the shells upon the dressing-table, and entered into easy conversation with us. I inquired of giddy golden-head who he was. Oh, she said, carelessly, he is a friend of ours mate of a vessel in the harbour. I made no response to this, for I began to feel my ignorance regarding manners and customs in Corsica. The next morning, the usual rain was pouring down in bucketsful overhead but very thankful were we, after a sleepless night, an early breakfast, and a dear bill, to depart from Hotel Colombani, with its indescribable dirt and smells, its exquisite views, and its loud waitress. Forde CHAPTER VI. THE HAUTE BALAGNE. THE road from Calvi to Belgodere, usually the third day's journey from Bastia, mounts nearly the whole way, Calvi being on the sea level, and the village of Belgodere high up amongst the hills. It passes along one of the most famous routes in Corsica, that which runs through the mountains over@looking the Haute and Basse Balagne. The Balagne shares with Cap Corse the reputation of being the richest and best cultivated district in Corsica, and consists of a splendid valley, apparently from three to seven miles wide, filled with rich grain fields and vineyards, and scattered with fruit trees. Oranges, cherries, and figs lined the road, and crept down towards the valley, varied by thick groves of olives. As the road ascended more and more, the  the valley becomes more extensive and magnificent, until at length the most splendid panorama of mountain ranges, of snow Alps, and of peeps of blue sea, lies before the traveller. Both Mr. Lear and Miss Campbell speak of this Balagne country as one of the most beautiful conceivable, and its views as un@paralleled but, unfortunately for us, we passed the first half of it in a downpour that veiled everything a dozen yards off with a thick white curtain. The second half was seen imperfectly, yet grandly, as the sun broke out in gleams, parting the mists in eccentric mood showing here a mountain, there a bit of sea, and further on a line of sparkling valley. For several miles we had to return upon our yesterday's road, but at Lumio branched off. The castle was wrapped in a grey cloak this morning and long before we could see them, we heard the numerous swollen cas@cades rushing down the hillside in front of us, then dashing below in a leaping water@fall as we passed over the stone bridge. The drenching rain had now  hours, making a temporary bath of the bottom of our carriage, and dripping in a melancholy sequence of drops through the rather ancient hood above our heads. Stopping at the half-way house, to bait the horses, we found they were better off than we, for that absolutely nothing was procurable for lunch but sour bread and un@eatable goat's cheese, Both mind and body were beginning to feel thoroughly damped, when a sudden lifting of the clouds, and ray of blessed sun@shine, revived our hopes and restored our equanimity. We left off feeding the hand@some, timid retriever, who, sitting half-drowned in the middle of the river course which we called our road, was gratefully accepting bits of brown dusty bread, and began to look about us. All around the olives were trembling with the rain, looking more purely silver than ever with the dew@drops hanging on their grey foliage, and beneath our feet stretched the rich, winding valley, filled with rolling banks of vapour. Scattered thickly over the valley  houses of the proprietors and a village nestled in every available mountain cranny, and on many a hill top. Speloncato especially, a village on the summit of a very high conical hill, is most picturesque, and followed us all the way to Belgodere, the road winding round it. The sun had a magical effect, not only in lifting the thick curtain that hung before nature's fine panorama, but in drying the broad level road. The roads throughout Corsica, with very few exceptions, are first rate. They are kept smooth and in good repair, and are often soft as park drives. Many of them were constructed by the First Napoleon, and are perhaps his best legacy to his native land. In an hour the water course had almost dried up, and the steep ascent became less dragging to the tired horses. A lovely snow mountain rose suddenly up from the very road-side, and a cold wind blew between the crevices of the hills upon us. Belgodere is a large, picturesquely placed village of twelve hundred inhabitants,  side of a sugar loaf hill, backed by ranges of mountains, and looking over lower hills in front to the Mediterranean below. The tiny village inn was more unpreten@tious than any we had yet seen. The door@way was about equal to that of a labourer's cottage in England, and the little broken wooden staircase up which we went was dark and dirty. The bedrooms, however, were a pleasing disappointment. There were only two in the house, prepared for the reception of guests but they were spot@lessly clean, and, as we afterwards found, very comfortable. The man and his wife, as usual accom@panied by all the family, in this case only consisting of an octogenarian father, one or two small children, and four cats, escorted us to our rooms, and apologized for the fact that we could not have the third room, as it was occupied by les vers. This ex@planation rather tickling my curiosity, and being anxious to know whether les vers could, by any possibility, desert their room for ours, which I felt undesirable, I pre@sently peeped into the third apartment,  it a mass of sleepy silk-worms, @hard at work absorbing cabbage leaves. In this part of the country, a great many silk-worms are kept, and they are more lucrative than occasional guests. This was not the only occasion on which we found them filling one of the best bedrooms, to our exclusion. After depositing our wraps, we went out, and were conjured to mount the Roc@her on the very top of the hill where, as our landlady informed us, all les Anglais went to see the view of the Balagne. The opinion of society, as expressed in the inn, being too much for us, we accordingly climbed over stony ruts, and up a steep stone staircase to the Rocher, in a tearing wind, and escorted by twenty or thirty excited children. There we found the view, as we had expected, precisely the same as that we had seen on our drive hither. We accordingly returned to our six o'clock dinner, when we were informed that we must not open the windows of the little sitting-room, as the silk-worms did not like it, and it might give them cold ! The dinner was, as usual, very good,  of soup, a very excellent little Medi@terranean fish, called sahl, haricot beans, and fowl, finishing with the national dish of broccia. Broccia, or brasch, as some of the country people call it, is a pudding made of the pressed curds of goat's milk. You get it almost every day for breakfast, lunch, or dinner, in the inland parts of the island, and it is excellent, mixed either with a little lemon, or a sauce of brandy and sugar. It is a trifle insipid by itself. After dinner, the cats all paid us a visit, and then the dear old octogenarian came in and had a chat, showing us an Italian sort of British Workman, profusely illustrated, which he seemed to consider an untold treasure, and which he said had been given him two years ago, by a gentille jeune Anglais@e. @@@ VII. THE COUNTRY OF SERAFINO AND MASSONI. THE next morning, at @half-past seven, we left pretty Belgodere among its wild hills, saying good-bye to the simple-hearted pro@prietors of the clean little rooms, to the courteous old octogenarian, and to the four cats. All night long the nightingales had been shouting, from under a clear sky, through our open windows but the clouds began to lower as we started, and a showery day ensued. For several hours we continued mounting towards the Col Colombano, the cultivated Basse Balagne lying at our feet, and the noblest views of sea and mountain constantly before us. Belgodere was at no mean elevation and, as we mounted  higher amongst the everlasting hills, ranges of mountains of every colour lay, one behind the other, before us-red, blue and purple-some veiled in half mists, and some shining with a far-away sunlight,-separated from us by miles of grey atmosphere. Over our heads and under our feet, great white masses of cloud were constantly pass@ing hurriedly, often wrapping us in a fine rain, and hiding from us, for a few moments, everything but their own chilly grey cur@tain. At the summit of the Col the sun broke out for a few minutes, and lit up a most magnificent view. It seemed as if we could go no higher. Everything lay beneath us, to the very edge of the distant soft horizon, and the hush of Nature in her solitude and her solemnity fell gently over sea and land and sky. Not a sound was to be heard among those lonely hills and yet the silence was eloquent, as is always such a summer silence up in the heights. For when the eloquent is mute, Silence itself is  is the dam upon the river, Whereon the waters press for ever, By their own fulness pent. 1 The road at the Col split into two and, taking the inland one, we began at once to descend rapidly, leaving behind us the mag@nificent views and the blue sky, and turning into monotonous green hills, sloping down to a river bordered by willows, and a colourless sky, whose leaden clouds were discharging themselves with a quiet per@sistence that denoted their staying properties. Our mid-day halt was at Ponte alle Lecchia, where the river, widening out and dashing in white foam, throws itself over boulders of bright green porphyry under a handsome bridge. Ponte alle Lecchia is an inconsiderable village, but it is the junction between the Bastia and Calvi roads, and every diligence stops here on the road from Bastia to Corte. The little inn, before which we stopped, was wretched and filthy, and they had absolutely nothing in the house but bread and sardines,  which they charged us a high price. I say nothing, for I mean nothing eatable by civilized people. We were, as usual, offered bacon and cheese but, as the first was raw, and the second could have been smelt a quarter of a mile off, these w@e declined. We made, however, a good fire of blazing sticks on the open hearth, and, surrounded by the curious eyes of all the inmates of the inn, guests or otherwise, dried our soaked garments. The hills between Belgodere and Ponte alle Lecchia were the home of the celebrated bandit Serafino. Serafino was a man of war, as is every bandit but he appears to have been of gentlemanly manners. His death occurred about thirty years ago, and many stories are preserved of his courtesy to women, and his protection of the poor. The Corsican bandit, as a rule, never robs he is supported, either by the produce of his flocks, which he brings in by night to his native village, or by the voluntary contri@butions of his  on one occasion, when Serafino found it absolutely necessary that he should possess himself of a pair of new boots, he demanded them with so much courtesy from a solitary officer of gendarmerie, not fully armed, that that individual must have felt the loss of his property almost com@pensated for by the genteel politeness of the robber. Serafino never permitted the poor to be molested, and it is related of him that he one day pursued and slew with his own hand a thief, who, under the false cover of his dreaded name, had deprived a peasant of his wallet,-restoring @his pos@sessions to the poor traveller. Serafino, although a bandit pursued in@cessantly by the law, did not find sufficient excitement in his skirmishes with the French gendarmes, and kept up a lively vendetta on his own account with a fellow-bandit named Massoni. On one of these occasions on which the brother bandits chanced to meet each other in the lonely maquis, Massoni's shot took effect, and deprived his enemy thenceforth of one of his fingers.  the year 1850, Serafino met with the almost invariable end of the bandit. He was shot dead by the soldiers whilst lying asleep in his cave, having been be@trayed by some villagers. With all other bandits, he was hunted from hill to hill like a wild beast by the gendarmes, who showed no mercy and gave no quarter to the men who would have scorned to receive it, and whose whole life was spent in outwitting and murdering them and their companions. Wonderfully brave, and even noble hearted, were many of these Corsican bandits and it seems sad that apparently a mere chance of life should throw splendid qualities, an indomitable energy, and dauntless courage, into the cause of murder and vagabondism. Massoni, the enemy of Serafino, roamed about the same fastnesses, and originally belonged to a Belagna family. He was by birth a gentleman, and brave as a lion but the unhappy vendetta had driven him from his home, believing him@self a righteous avenger, but pursued by the gendarmes as a murderer.@ many years he lived amongst the mountains of La Haute Balagne, in com@pany with his brother and another bandit called Arrighi, keeping the French police at bay, and in their frequent contests killing numbers of their pursuers. The trio were supported by their rela@tions, and were surrounded by friendly shepherds. But treachery, incited by a rough action, overtook them at last. Massoni was one day visited by a friend from his own village in Balagna, who came to ask his advice and assistance regarding the revenge to be taken on a man of position who had insulted his family. Massoni, wishing to treat his guest hospi@tably, requested a lamb from a friendly shepherd. His request was not refused, but Massoni took offence at the leanness of the gift. It is for a guest I must have a fat one, said he and without further ceremony he chose out his lamb, and, shooting it down, carried it off in his arms. The shepherd had neither the power nor the daring to resist the bandit, or  his rudeness, but he determined to pay him out for what he had done. Soon after the departure of Massoni he left his rocky cabin among the hills, and, descending to the gendarmerie, offered to betray the hiding-place of the bandits. Cautiously, and in great numbers, the gendarmes mounted the steep hill, until at length the shepherd paused before an almost inaccessible cave, the mouth of which was entirely hidden by the maquis. Arrighi and Massoni's brother were within, asleep but Massoni himself kept watch at the entrance. He had not heard the soldiers creeping noiselessly up the rocky paths, and now he was surrounded, some above, and some below. Nothing was audible, until one of the soldiers, to find out if the men were really there, threw a stone from above into the thick bushes at the cave's mouth. Massoni sprang out to see the danger, firing off his pistol to awaken his com@panions, who started up from their sleep as he fell upon the cavern floor, pierced by the balls of the  now Massoni's brother leapt out among the rocks, bounding like a wild goat from point to point, until one of the many shots fired at him took effect, and he fell dead upon the hill-side. Arrighi, however, remained within, and when, at length, after much hesitation, some of the gendarmes dared to enter the cave where lay hid the dreaded bandit, he was nowhere to be found. All night was the silent watch kept but when, early in the morning, some of the soldiers moved off to a neighbouring spring for water, two shots, fired suddenly from the mysterious cavern, struck through the heart two of their number and the party who went to fetch in their dead bodies lost another man from the same fatal gun. It was of no use to fire madly into the rocky cavern, the prisoner remained un@injured and undiscoverable. After waiting another day or two, and vainly endeavouring to smoke their enemy out of his concealment, an engineer with other officials were sent for from Corte, and it was arranged that the cave should  up by gunpowder. The desperate man inside, for whose death, just though it certainly was, it seemed pitiful to think that the assistance of so many of his fellow-creatures should be required, overheard the proposal, and resolved at last to take flight. He waited, however, for night, when, under cover of the darkness, he escaped from his hiding-place. He had already got away to some distance when a ball hit him in the leg but, with the despair of the hunted animal, he struggled on, leaving a bloody trail upon the ground as he passed. When morning dawned, the gendarmes found the outlaw, who for years had been their terror and the object of their pursuit, lying faint and exhausted among the rocks. Yet, even then, they feared to approach too near the dying brave, and creeping up cautiously, they fired upon him whilst yet he was unconscious of their approach, and in another moment Arrighi lay upon the slope of Monte Rotondo, a dead man. The next day the bodies of six men-three bandits and three soldiers@-@ in a sad procession down the hill-side to the plain below, and the French Govern@ment was rid of three of the most celebrated and intrepid of Corsican  SOME of the Corsican bandits have been, not only objects of admiration, but of love,, to their fellow-countrymen in general, who willingly contributed to their support. Even if their first adoption of lawless life were not due to their dislike of a foreign govern@ment-for long not quite palatable to the free wild people of the interior-yet their after-life consisted of a series of skirmishes against, and contests with, a police towards whom the majority of the islanders owed some grudge or other. One of the most celebrated of these men, and one who became, in the eyes of his own people, a hero of romance, was a bandit of the name of Teodoro, who lived at the commencement of the present century. Teodoro became a bandit, not from  quarrel, or from fear of the conse@quences of any deed of violence, but to escape joining the ranks of the French soldiery, by whom he had been somewhat roughly seized and enrolled amongst their number. The young Corsican had no objection to a warlike occupation, but he did not choose to lose his liberty, nor had he any wish to fight for the masters of his country. So he escaped to the mountains, by his daring spirit and love of adventure becom@ing at once the terror of his enemies and the darling of his countrymen. He called himself King of the Mountains, and imposed taxes upon the villagers around to keep up his state but they were grudged by few, for the king was handsome, fasci@nating, and generous. His life was full of wild, bloody, and romantic incidents but meanness was never connected with his name. He was a staunch friend, and even a forgiving foe. His companions, besides his queen, were an uncle named Angellone, and another bandit called Brusco. Brusco and Teodoro were bound  the ties of a tender friendship, but this friendship was the cause of secret jealousy to Angellone. One day a quarrel took place in Teodoro's absence, and the elder man murdered his nephew's friend, then escaping to the maquins. Teodoro, heart-broken at the loss of Brusco, swore a furious oath to avenge him at the hands of his murderer. According to ancient fashion, he began to let his beard grow, as a solemn witness to this oath. But not for long. The murderer could not long escape his pursuing hand, and ere long the King of the Mountains re-appeared with a smooth chin. Teodoro shared the usual fate of the out@law. He was betrayed, whilst lying ill in his mountain home, to the gendarmes, who showed little mercy to the dying man. Sick though he was, however, he fought even then to the death, and laid two of his assailants low, before his arms fell motion@less and his proud spirit succumbed to the last of his foes. It is reported that, after his death, some of the villagers came up the hill-side,  the influence of love or fear to the memory of the famous bandit, offered the contributions due to the King of the Moun@tains towards the support of his queen and her infant child. Probably of a different stamp was a young brigand whose execution at Bastia, in the summer of 1852, is so pitifully described by Gregorovius in his book on Corsica, himself being an eye-witness of part of the scene. He was but three and twenty, beautiful of face, strong as a lion, and brave and fierce as a wild beast but the accusation against him was that he had murdered ten men out of caprice ! What an extraordinary madness must that have been which incited this poor young Corsican, probably from no reason but the insensate lust of blood, for no purposes of robbery or even adequate anger, to murder his fellow-men ! The very unnaturalness of the pheno@menon arouses pity from those whose bringing-up makes such a wild-beast mad@ness incomprehensible to them. One wonders in what atmosphere poor  been brought up in the bandit's cave, accustomed to sights of brutal ferocity and the indulgence of every fierce passion, and growing up to find his hand against every man. This was the probable commencement of a life which, at three and twenty, was to end stained by so much crime. That the young brigand was all bad, it is impos@sible to believe, reading Gregorovius' account. Death was no terrible stranger to him he had been accustomed to its pale face from boyhood, and he was not likely to flinch even before its more horrible appear@ance on the public scaffold. With his one arm bound behind his back for he had lost the other in a fight with the gendarmes , he walked to his death firmly and quietly. There was no vulgar air of braggadocio about him, no attempt to excite any momentary popular sympathy by dramatic means. He died unflinchingly, not as a hero, but as a penitent, acknow@ledging his black deeds. I pray God  world for forgiveness, said the young murderer, with native brevity, on the scaffold, for I acknowledge that I have done much evil. I will not here stop to speak of the Bella Coschia brothers, the last two bandits whose wild deeds have made them famous in Corsica. They are yet alive, and not much beyond middle age but their history belongs to another part of the island, where I heard much of them. I must close this chapter with a dirge, or vocero, roughly translated from the Corsican patois, and which was improvised at the funeral of a bandit called Canino, some years ago. These voceri are one of the peculiarities of Corsica. Until quite lately, it was con@stantly the custom, at the funeral of any great or popular person, or, indeed, over the coffin of any man, woman, or child whose death was due to accident, murder, or any sudden and terrible circumstance, for the nearest of kin usually the sister or mother of the dead person to break out into some impromptu song  couched in rude but often stirring verse. These mournful dirges were striking in their rugged but earnest simplicity and fortunately some of them have been pre@served and printed at Ajaccio. The custom of singing the vocero, like most other ancient and romantic customs, is now, however, slowly but surely dying out in the island. VOCERO OVER THE DEAD BODY OF CANINO, A BANDIT. BY HIS SISTER. Now shall my voice re-echo Loud as the thunder roars, Where San Pietro nestles, Or Vizzavona soars By which to many a distant land Gallona bears her witness grand. In Luco Nazza see a crowd Met together for the chase Bandits 2 and soldiers all as one-A right accursed race With bloody hands but yesterday They started all upon their way.  the valley's deepest gorges Might be heard the roaring wind, From Ghisoni bringing evil-Terror, in its wake behind-In its hollow notes proclaiming Coming treachery and wailing. At the horn's shrill sounding gathered, Wolves and lambs together showed Marched alongside in their union, Quickly up the rocky road, Till upon the pass they stood, Where they shed thy heart's life blood. W@hen I heard the loud lamenting I threw wide the lattice pane, Asking, What has happened ? tell me 'Tis your brother-he is slain ! Captured in his mountain lair, He was foully slaughtered there ! Now thy skill can spare thee nothing-Of what use thy bravery ? What thy dagger or thy pistol Now can do for thee ? What avail thy charm to wear, Or to hug thy secret prayer ? 3 At the sight of all thy gashes, Anguished grows my wailing. Wherefore comes no answer from thee ? Is thy courage failing ? Cani, thy sister's heart grows strange And all my nature seems to change.  the neighbourhood of Nazza A blackthorn I will grow, To show that of our race no longer Any shall come or go Because at last, not two or three, But five opponents worsted thee ! Oh, for thy shoulders broad ! Oh, thine activity ! Like to a stalwart, budding branch-None could compare to thee. Save for thy memory alone, My weary life could not drag on. Beneath the flowering chestnut-tree, There will I take my rest, Because that there, 0 much beloved, They pierced thy bleeding breast. Now will I drop my woman's garb, Take gun and pistol in my hand, The tarzitta will buckle on, And gird the weapon band. Cani, a sister's heart will know How to wreak vengeance on thy foe ! IN MORTE DI CANINO, BANDITO, VOCERO DELLA SORELLA. Dialetto della pieve di Ghisoni.@ Eo buria che la me' voci Fusse tamant'e lu tonu, Chi passasse per la foci Di San Petru e Vizzavonu Per chi soni in ogni locu La gran prova di  intesi li brioni, M'affaccai a lu purteddu Dimandai chi nova c'eni ?-Hanu tombu u to frateddu L'hanu presu in du la serra N'hanu fattu lu maceddu. Nun ti valse lu curaggiu, Nun ti valse la schiuppetta, Nun ti valse lu pugnali, Nun ti valse la tarzetta Nun ti valse ingermatura, Nè razione binadetta. A guardà le to ferite Mi s'accresci lu dulori. Perchè più nun mi rispondi ? Forse ti manca lu cori ? O Canì, cor di suredda, Hai cambiatu di culori. A lu paese di Nazza Eo ci vogliu pianta un prunu, Perchè di la nostra razza Un ci passi più nisunu Perchè un funu duji nè treni, Ma cinque omini contr'unu. Tutti a lu Lucu de Nazza Tutti s'eranu aduniti Cun quella barbara zazza Li sullati e li banditi Cu a tempesta d'eri mani Tutt'insemme so partiti. In fondi di lu rionu Si sentia rugghia la  purtava da Ghisoni Lu malori e lu spaventu Si vidia chi per aria Bera accidiu e tradimentu. Somo subitu partiti Tutti i lupi cull'agneddi, E merchiavanu aduniti A lu son di cialambeddi. Quandu junsenu a la serra Ti taglionu i garganeddi. Lu me' largu di spallera ! Lu me' minutu di vita ! Cume teni, nun ci n'era Parii una mazza fiurita. Solu u pinzeru di teni Or sustene la me' vita. A lu pe' di stu pullonu Ci ogliu piantà lu m'è lettu Parchì qui, u me' frateddonu, Ti tironu a mezzu pettu. Bogliu leche lu buneddu, Bogliu armà schioppu e stilettu. Bogliu cinghie la carchera, Bogliu cinghie la tarzetta 0 Canì, cor di suredda, Bogliu fa la to bindetta. @@@@ IX. CORTE AND ITS HOTEL. FROM Ponte alle Lecchia the road follows the course of the foaming river Vecchio for a long way, along a wide valley, where the green hills circling round are somewhat monotonous for a time, but presently turn into handsome grey and white limestone cliffs, hanging in one place in wild and curious peaks above the passing carriage. After the large village of Cabouralino, the scenery becomes tamer again, the ground more cultivated, flocks of black and white silky haired goats with silvery bells passing us constantly. The road, too, was here alive with men riding mules, and leading after them by a cord a string of other mules with packs on their backs. It was a matter of difficulty to pass some of these mules, who were not  to carriage company, and who backed towards the precipice occa@sionally, kicking wildly, to the discomfiture of their owners. This part of the country was the scene of the battle of Ponte Nuovo, in 1769, the last battle fought for Corsican independence and the date from which Corsica became a French province. It has a touching interest for this reason, and on account of its being a witness to the last vain effort of Paoli in his country's cause. But now we were leaving the river, with its foaming waters and its bloody memories, over which the fine thoughtful face of Pasquale Paoli seemed to cast a humaniz@ing influence, and were ascending the mountains under a blue sky. Vast quantities of handsome hellebore, with large ball-like clumps of flowers, and of a species of pale green spurge its flowers like a number of yellow caterpillars attached to the stem , grew by the roadside ilex-trees scattered themselves up and down rocks of every form and height, above and below the road, and the  us became more and more covered with snow. Here and there were placed villages in lofty and commanding situa@tions one especially, named Suaria, which was perched just above us on a conical green hill rising from the road-side. The village was partially hidden by firs and ilexes crowning this pretty eminence but the high four-storied campanile of Suaria Church stood out, white and imposing, above their sheltering branches. Very cold and frosty was the wind, notwithstanding the brilliant sun, as we reached the summit of the pass but the view of mountain scenery spread out beneath us was mag@nificent. And now we began our descent through many a tree-covered hill, towards Corte, its high, red-tiled houses visible miles before we reached it. Corte, the central inland town of Corsica, is, after Bastia and Ajaccio, the largest town in the island, and has a position unequalled for wild beauty. It lies in the very heart of the wildest mountains of Corsica, surrounded on every side by their gaunt and precipitous  Rotondo, one of the highest of the inland chain, raises its snow-crowned head to look over the solemn blue-grey hills im@mediately behind Corte and two broad foaming rivers dash down the gully beside the town, and unite, after passing under their handsome stone bridges, in the narrow valley just beneath. Corte is itself at no mean height above the sea level and, at the time of our first visit, was exceedingly cold, with a sharp north wind rushing through the town from the numerous mountain ravines. The citadel, which of itself is not much, is built, with extraordinarily picturesque effect, upon the summit of a precipitous hill, rising from the midst of the town up whose sides run a few houses, until the overhanging rocks force them to give place to the prickly pear. The main streets in Corte are wide, and paved with rough stone, with enormously high, factory-like houses, of seven or even eight stories, on each side. The houses are remarkably hideous, even for Corsica built of dirty white stone, and red roofed, without any eaves, the  and poor, and the open doorways into large buildings often showing dirty and poverty-stricken interiors. Very steep side streets, impassable for carriages, and sometimes giving place to a series of stone steps, lead up into the higher parts of the town, and towards the citadel and church. Fine elm-trees make a nice avenue all up the main road, at the end of which are the two respectable hotels of Corte, Hotels Pierracci and Paoli, so precisely opposite that the rival guests can look into each other's windows. If it were not for its dirt, and its ugly houses, the beauty of Corte would be almost unrivalled in European scenery. How one sighs in Corsica for the lovely grey cottages with broad eaves, and for the stately art-decorated mansions with graceful towers, of beauty-loving Italy ! No such thing is to be seen here. I doubt if, from one end of Corsica to the other, there is one building with any pre@tensions to real architectural beauty. Art has never been much  island. A people who for centuries have lived in a condition of incessant war@fare and personal insecurity have but little time or inclination to indulge in the peace@ful pursuits of their more luxurious neigh@bours and Corsican architecture partakes of the Corsican character, being stern, rugged, and primitive. Many a village, nestled in some exquisite situation among snow-capped hills and orange groves, we found perfectly ruined, in an artistic point of view, by its ugly dwellings. The churches are the only redeeming feature in Corsican architecture. Their campaniles, or bell-towers, are generally lofty and picturesque, divided into several stories, and standing apart from the body of the church. Hotel Pierracci, which had been recom@mended to us, we found a fair hotel in many respects, but intensely national in its peculiarities. The despotic Briton, coming straight from club luxuries and obsequious attentions, would feel himself decidedly out of place there, and not a little  is a large hotel, with two handsome dining-rooms, and spacious, well-furnished bedrooms and although the broad stone staircase is somewhat odoriferous and the passages not over clean, yet the rooms are comfortable and perfectly above suspicion. But, for the whole of this large establish@ment, generally well filled with a constantly changing series of guests, there appeared to be only one terribly overworked young waiter, and an elderly maid of all work, ex@clusive of the kitchen department . The result was, that even if you had that un-Corsican luxury of a bell in your room, which was not often, its repeated calls were unheeded and you had speedily to learn and put in practice that great law of uncivilized regions, If you want any@thing done, do it yourself. As, however, every domestic was in a gasping hurry, and the big landlady-a mixture of sudden irascibility and occasional benevolence-was apt to regard your wants as puerile, and, Corsican fashion, to tell you so loudly to your face-a foray in dressing-gown and slippers to the  hot water, or cleaned boots, or any other necessity of man and woman, was apt to end in ignominy and the trial of English tempers. The crockery and cutlery of Hotel Pierracci also run notably short. It was a current joke amongst the English visitors, that the one coffee-pot of the establishment not only supplied all the numerous breakfast-tables of the different guests, but also did duty on occasions for shaving and toilette water. And this fact I can believe for one morning, having by persistent obstinacy triumphed over the difficulties of obtaining a little hot water for dressing purposes, my tin jug was fetched away almost immediately after@wards, and I was astonished to see it re@appearing on the breakfast table ten minutes later in its habitual guise of coffee-pot. At breakfast this same coffee-pot was the cause of continual contention between the worried little waiter and ourselves. When it pleased him to give us our breakfast, he used to run in, fill our cups hastily, and whisk out again with his precious pot and no entreaties or commands  to leave that invaluable and useful little metal jug behind him, or even to return with it and refill our cups. I think there was a bond of sympathy between that waiter and his coffee-pot, both so terribly overworked. The food at Hotel Pierracci was good, but rather scarce, and it was difficult to make a dinner off the microscopic scraps which adorned the dishes during the eight courses of the table d'hote. We noticed this par@ticularly on our road home again, when perhaps our long stay in mountain air and the fine Corsican climate had increased our correct English appetites to a country voracity. But, on the whole, for Corsica, Hotel Pierracci may be considered a very comfortable hotel and, excepting that at Sartene, which is also a good one, has the reputation of being almost the only large and handsome hotel out of Ajaccio. Hotel Paoli, we were told afterwards by some French acquaintances, was clean and well ordered, with good rooms and very moderate charges but we did not go in@side the place.orde CHAPTER X. AN ENCOUNTER WITH STREET URCHINS. CORTE @has one terrible drawback-nay, two its extreme dirt and its impudent children. I have heard it said that the position of the town gives it the advantage of being both a good summer and winter residence, the climate being never too hot or too cold. It may never be too hot, but it must undoubtedly be a very cold place in winter, from its elevation among the numerous snow mountains that surround it. This, of course, is a matter of taste. But I should doubt extremely its being in any degree healthy in summer. I heard vague rumours of malaria whilst we were there and I should not doubt the existence of fever in the hot weather. I have been in a good many German, Italian, and Corsican towns but not  them can vie with Corte in uncleanliness. Corte, I should think, would carry off the palm in filthy pavements, and putrid odours, from any town in Europe. It was only the beginning of June when we visited it for the second time, and yet there were certain streets, and those not insignificant ones, where it was absolutely necessary to hold one's nose and run. As there were waste rubbish places in many of these parts, which were nothing at all but open drains, and receptacles for everything horrid that could be thrown upon them from the windows and balconies of the houses around, the objectionable odours were neither astonishing nor unac@countable. As regards the children of Corte, they are no small drawback to the delights of the place. The inhabitants are altogether a rough, uncivil set, far less courteous than the generality of Corsicans, and have had an evil reputation amongst strangers for many years. It is not conducive to the enjoyment  scenery or a quiet stroll, to be surrounded down the street, and followed far into the country by a mocking, shouting horde of dancing dervishes, not content with roaring out Inglesé ! Inglesé ! with unceasing energy, but making occasional clutches at your dress or umbrella, and stopping up the public way. The ingenious youth of Corte has one especial diversion, retained for the delecta@tion of the stranger. This consists in hold@ing a stout piece of cord across the road, barring the path, with the shouted intima@tion, No pennies, no passage ! or, in their own words, Sou, sou, Inglese ! English pride naturally determines that its owner will die sooner than bestow the required penny on these little pests but this righteous wrath sometimes entails unpleasant results. An acquaintance of ours, then at Corte, had, a few weeks before, been nearly mobbed by the elder part of the community when he attempted to cut the rope and offered to thrash the children. We ourselves came in for an un@pleasant encounter, that might have  We were taking a walk across the valley of the Tavignano, where it rushes, boiling and foaming in splendid cascades over its green and grey boulders, past the city, before joining the equally picturesque river Restonico. It was Sunday evening and, unfortu@nately, we had chosen a time when all the juvenile populace were out of school, and on the look-out for a little innocent amuse@ment. I have noticed that a demoniac phase often comes over naughty children on a Sunday evening. Be that as it may, a troop of about twenty, chiefly boys, pursued us unrelentingly far outside the precincts of the town, shouting their war-cry of Sou, Inglese !@@@@ and running round and round till we could neither see the views, nor hear ourselves speak. A rope which they stretched across the road for the customary pastime fortunately broke, and we passed on through the gap but the broken remains, held by two youth@ful fiends, served as an instrument of torture wherewith to wind us up and  our footsteps. Human en@durance could bear no more and, after one or two stern warnings, No. 3, whose wrath had been gradually gathering, suddenly saw her opportunity, and, darting upon two small tormentors before they could escape, she brought down her umbrella upon their degenerate backs with as much force as nature had supplied to her. Instantly, the attitude of these juvenile Corsicans changed. They had been dis@porting themselves before now they pre@pared for serious warfare. There was a moment's pause and then a volley of sharp stones came after us. We walked on quickly, but the charge increased instead of decreasing, one striking No. 2 on the head, and another No. 3 on the heel, but fortunately without inflicting any serious damage. But flint stones from off a roadside are not pleasing weapons and things might have ended badly for us, but for a sudden diversion. From a cottage by the roadside just before us, dashed out three big boys,  the humanizing age of thirteen and, undertaking our defence without a word, they made a sudden onslaught upon our pursuers, and in two minutes had put them all to flight. We were really relieved, and thanked the knights-errant warmly. Two of them, boys of about fourteen or fifteen, had pipes in their mouths and one of them, a young man a year or two older, remarked sagely, that it was always thus with visitors Les enfants de Corte étaient terriblement méchants. Having bade adieu to our gallant de@fenders, we were walking on, and had almost forgotten them, when the noise of a terrific struggling and scuffling behind us again attracted our attention. Our friends had got a boy of about eleven between them, and were dragging him along by the arms by main force. The boy was resisting with all his power, and was being dragged along almost double, his bare feet scraping the ground in a vain effort not to move, whilst he sobbed and shouted in a passion of rage and terror  in one of his heroic race. He was a ragged, dirty, pretty urchin, with large brown eyes, and a wicked face that prophesied for him bigger scrapes some day than stone-throwing. The two boys who had him in custody brought the unfortunate imp to our as@tonished feet, and rested there still griping him fast, and demanding our good pleasure concerning his chastisement. Tenez, mademoiselle, said the third, holding up a big pointed stone, voilà la pierre qu'il a jetée ! Circumstantial evidence with a vengeance the culprit confronted with the instrument of his iniquity ! Perhaps we were weak but we forgave that terror-stricken boy who, I verily be@lieve, expected some vendetta-like vengeance at our hands , and he was allowed to slink off with an admonition from us to do so no more. Coming back, these same big boys again overtook us and, quietly remarking that they would see us safe home, they escorted us to the door of our hotel with much  and then made off, raising their caps. These boys were in the lower ranks of life, although decently dressed but it would have been an insult to offer them any recompense. Their action proceeded from chivalry pur et simple, and they had no notion of any reward. Weeks afterwards, when two of us re@turned to Corte, a smiling face suddenly attracted our attention in the streets one day, and we recognized one of our boyish defenders. Of course we greeted him, and he lifted his cap, remarking, I have seen you for the last half hour.  deal of historical interest is attached to Corte. From the earliest times it has been the seat of the national government, and the centre of the more important popular demonstrations. The old town and citadel have undergone more sieges and been worn by more numerous assaults than even Calvi or Bonifacio. Here Paoli lived, and, from his modest home, regulated the government of his country and here was the home of the patriot Gaffori. An anecdote is told in connection with the latter which is truly Corsican in its Spartan-like heroism. It was in 1746, during one of the ceaseless conflicts with Genoa, and Gaffori was storm@ing the city. He had already made  and the Genoese commander was beginning to tremble for the fate of his fort. Suddenly the Corsican firing ceased, and every gun was silent, whilst the islanders gazed horror-struck on the walls. Upon them was bound the young son of Gaffori, who had been taken prisoner, and whom the Genoese general had commanded to be placed there in order to deter the successful storming party, or as a mark for his father's guns. Gaffori paused a moment but only a moment. In another minute he gave the order, and the assault continued. But the heroic father had his reward. The breach was made, Corte fell, and Gaffori's son was rescued unhurt from his perilous situation. Corte abounds in pointer dogs. Paoli had his six canine friends, who kept house with him at Corte but tradition tells not whether they, too, were pointers or no. The men of Corte struck me as being a finer race physically than any other in the island. They are tall and well-made, with upright  in face and figure, are more akin to t@he English than the Italians there is none of the soft roundness of the Italian about them they are bony, manly, and muscular. But the Cortéans appeared to me to excel even their other compatriots in idleness. As one of themselves said, The young men of Corte do nothing but walk the streets from morning till night, and all they have to occupy them is to think of evil. The Corsican women, however, at Corte as elsewhere, are essentially domestic and retiring. Flaunting and finery have not yet become the fashion among these simple-hearted daughters of Eve and as long as their lords require it of them, they will probably remain the same light-hearted, energetic, hard-working family supporters that they now are. To them may be applied, with great accuracy, the old rhyme - Good wives, like city clocks, should be Exact with regularity Yet not, like city clocks so loud, Be heard by all the vulgar  Good wives to snails should be akin, Always their houses keep within,-Yet not to carry fashion's hacks All they possess upon their backs. The only occasion on which the women of Corsica appear to have an outing is on Sunday morning, after early Mass, when, in their neat attire of black and white, they sometimes take a quiet turn up and down the main street or place. A funeral, too, may bring them out. On passing through Olmeto some weeks after@wards, we met half a dozen women coming down the road together, dressed rather more gaily than usual and our driver immediately remarked, There must be a funeral in Olmeto, or the women would not be out. But, we asked, do they not put on mourning for the occasion ? Oh no only the relatives do that. But, we said, there are so many people always dressed in black in Corsica how is that ? Well, people only go into mourning for a very near relation but the first time they wear it for three or four years, and  time, unless they are young children, for the rest of their life. This accounts for the number of sombre female figures one sees in this island, the black handkerchief which is worn over the head rendering them peculiarly funereal-looking and explains why you never meet an elderly woman in any other attire. But the group of women we met were evidently only acquaintances or distant relations of the dead, for their costume was more than usually lively, one or two of them wearing a blue or orange head-gear and other unaccustomed bits of finery. The ceremony appeared to them, no doubt, in the light of an agreeable dissipation, as it did to a certain poor Welshwoman of my acquaintance, who remarked, cheerfully, that Mother had a' been quite gay lately she'd a' been to three funerals last week ! The church at Corte is in the higher part of the town, surrounded by narrow streets and houses that have lain in ruins ever since the last bombardment of the town. It is not a pretentious building, either within or  paintings and gaudy images of saints bedecked every side altar, and a highly coloured Madonna stood in a niche on either side of the principal altar, where the tall candles shed artificial sunlight on beautiful but badly arranged flowers. The service was mumbled through by an old priest, less to our edification than ap@parently to that of the reverent crowd of women worshippers who filled the building. Scarcely a man was to be seen in church. Their Sunday duties appeared to consist in squatting in rows just outside the porch, smoking their pipes, and watching the entrance of their better halves. In Corsica the men are not church-goers. Coming from North Italy, where the congre@gations are composed more of men than of women, one cannot fail to be struck by this fact. Fillipini remarks of his countrymen that they are a religious community. He would scarcely say so now. French influence and French scepticism are already making them@selves felt among the Corsican men and the priesthood on the island does not  strong, as a body, intellectually or morally, to preserve their fading in@fluence. But the men in Corte, although they may not care to go to church, yet are sufficiently orthodox to join in a good pro@cession on St. Joseph's Day. It was about five o'clock in the evening, when the sound of distant chanting and the hum of many voices drew us to the window. There we saw, coming up the road under the elm@ trees, a troop of about sixty or seventy men and women, carrying banners and dressed in uniform. First came the women, of whom there were not altogether more than about a dozen. They were dressed in a pretty costume of bright blue skirt, white head kerchief, and round white cape, trimmed with blue, and they carried in their midst a banner with a strange device, that we could not make out. Then came men, in white shirts and trowsers, with white head-gear something between a cap and a turban, and green  more men, with white attire and crimson capes. These capes evidently differed according to the relative wealth of the wearer, for some were of crimson silk edged with gold, and some of simple calico. These carried a large crucifix. Finally came a troop with rich purple capes. These were carrying, with some difficulty, an immense statue of St. Joseph, gilt all over, and surrounded by a gold frame. Four of the men bore the image on stout poles, whilst a fifth held it straight in the centre. This troop was evidently the picked lot of the procession, for they chanted, as they walked, an extraordinary dirge-like chant, and were accompanied by a few priests in black cassocks, likewise singing. I have seldom seen anything much more picturesque than that gay procession, as it wound with its banners under the shady avenue, and up the hill-side towards the little church, now lost, now seen, between the narrow crooked streets, the weird chant dying and rising by turns on the quiet evening  solemn, however, has its travesty, I imagine, and children always reproduce in their games what has most im@pressed them. So, an hour or two later, when the twi@light was falling, and the faithful were mostly in church, there came the parody of the afternoon's procession. Hearing a prodigious drumming, and the shouts of children, I looked out and saw a collection of about twenty or thirty of the ragged barefoot urchins of Corte, promenad@ing the street in solemn procession, shouting a song that I fear was profane, at the top of their voices, drumming energetically with an old spoon upon a broken brass can that they had evidently picked up from the road@side, and following the lead of a bold-faced, pretty boy, who bore aloft the seedy remains of a large wooden cross, which had apparently been previously used in church decoration, as it still showed the remnants of withered moss and evergreens.g XII. SAN ROCCO BY THE RESTONICO. THE environs of Corte abound in lovely walks. Surrounded as it is by mountain, ravine, and river, this is no wonder. Cer@tainly, one not easily rivalled, is to be found in the valley of the Restonico, one of the two rivers which rush seething and boiling just below the town. We strolled into this beautiful vale quite by accident, after hastily skirting the streets, to avoid those horrid boys. The road, which was rough but broad, wound for miles through a narrow gorge, bordered on both sides by the wildest and steepest walls of rock, at the bottom of which swirled, in mingled white foam and malachite green, over a boulder-strewn bed, the busy Restonico. The rocks upon the opposite side  inaccessibly steep, and appeared about five hundred feet high but were in places clothed by rich herbage, and, here and there, wherever their straight sides sloped a little, covered by thick groves of chestnut trees. The road itself was shaded in parts by the great crags that hung overhead, and in parts by avenues of chestnuts while many a gurgling little stream rushed down the @hill-side and ran merrily across our path. In front, filling up the end of the gorge, sometimes hidden by massive rocks or sud@den luxuriance of foliage, rose the stately white head of Monte Rotondo. Looking back, the town of Corte rose from amongst its coronal of hills with beau@tiful effect, the long cross-topped church spire pointing faintly into the bright blue sky, and the white citadel on its strange precipitous eminence, peering, as it seemed, into heaven itself. It was one of the hottest days we had felt in Corsica, and, beautiful though the walk was, it was almost pain to hurry, umbrella in hand, from one shady spot to  ever snakes would stand upon their tips and dance in the sun together, as our driver once informed us he had seen them do, it would have been to-day ! The lizards on the glaring walls seemed countless and, wherever the glare was intensest, there the little green husband and brown wife basked together in loving enjoyment. Very thankful were we at last to sit down on some large boulders beside the rushing waters, where a grove of thickly growing chestnuts threw a grateful shade around. The river here had thrown up quite a little shore of gravel, now partially grassed over with soft green turf and the chestnut pods of last summer almost covered the ground at our feet. At a short distance from us, stood, on a little grassy plain, beneath a blighted tree trunk, a tiny chapel, about six feet high and two feet wide, containing a golden image of the Madonna. It had the appearance of a doll's house, and somehow looked out of place beside that wide, wild, tumultuous river. This was about two miles out of Corte  nearer the town, is a much more singular chapel. Chapel, perhaps, is scarcely the word for it, since it is only a species of box, or square hole, formed by nature or blasting, in a large block of solid rock by the road@side. The hole is about three feet square and deep, and is glassed over in front. Inside this strange little tabernacle is a highly coloured, well-modelled figure of a man, with one of his trouser-legs turned up to show a remarkably life-like wound on the knee, to which he draws the attention of the passer-by with a pathetic countenance. A dog, looking rather ashamed of himself, stands beside the pilgrim and completes the group. This individual is, we are informed, San Rocco of rather obscure memory, and beneath the tabernacle is the following inscription, cut into the rock - Fermati, Passegioro, e prega intanto se vuoi l'assis@tanza di San Rocco. The little white oratory fixed in the huge glaring rock, with the tiny stone steps beside it, and the Restonico roaring  it, would have been a picturesque sight to English eyes, had it not been that the figure within reminded one irresistibly and most unpleasantly of our late tor@mentors, the Italian beggars, with their officiously displayed surgical horrors. According to Baring-Gould, in his Lives of the Saints, San Rocco, or Saint Roch, was a rather mythical personage. All that is authentic about him is that he was a Frenchman, a native of Montpellier, who went on a pilgrimage to Rome, and, on his return, not being recognized, was taken up as a spy, and died miserably in the common gaol. He was of good family and some means which he forsook for the sake of his pilgrimage , and died about the year A.D. 1350. Legend adds, that whilst in Italy, where the plague at this time was raging, he miraculously cured thousands by making over them the sign of the cross, until himself attacked when, creeping into a miserable hovel, he was supplied by a friendly dog with necessary food. An angel subsequently touched him upon the thigh, from which place the plague boil rose  When dying in the Montpellier prison, St. Roc@h prayed that all invoking him should be henceforth delivered from the plague and an angel appeared with the written promise that his patronage should prove the perfect cure of all suffering from this scourge. In several of representations St. Roch an angel is seen beside him, touching his thigh, and the dog also sometimes carries a loaf in his mouth. It was just beginning to cool a little when we were forced to turn homewards. Monte Rotondo was growing grander and nearer, the path was more lovely, and the chestnut woods thick and shady but all these charms, alas ! had to give way to the claims of the six o'clock table d'hôte at Hotel Pierracci. The return walk was delicious, and the fashionable hour of pro@menade had evidently just commenced for we began to meet family groups taking their evening stroll together up the hitherto deserted gorge. Just where a lofty cypress, stern and solitary, lifted up its dark, pointed head high into the deep blue sky, to  presence of a tiny cemetery upon the steep hill-side above us, the sun suddenly fell behind Corte's framework of hills, and we re-entered the baking streets in early shadow. At the doorway of the hotel a very tall sentry stood at arms for we had the honour of housing a general beneath our roof. This general was a very grand person. At dinner-time his rank and dignity obliged him to have a table to himself, where he sat eating his chicken and salad in solitary grandeur and profound silence. I was really sorry for the poor general for he was young and good-looking, and seemed intended by nature and his own inclinations as evinced by sundry @half-wistful glances towards the large table, where we, the common herd, dined in unpretending socia@bility , for a more agreeable and gregarious lot than the one forced upon him by the claims of his exalted position. It was very thrilling, however, to see our militaire receive his letters in the morning. The sentry entered, musket on  through the salle à manger for I am ashamed to say this military grandee had not a private sitting-room, or did not use it grounded arms, saluted, presented the epistles from the extreme length of a very stiff arm, and then stood motionless at attention, an inanimate blue and red human poker. Tremendously hot though the day had been, the evening was exceedingly chilly, and we at last requested the morbid waiter to light us a fire. What ! cold ? he asked, incredulously. Yes, said I, apologetically, I am afraid we are. Dear me, how strange it is ! There are you cold, and I quite warm. Women are queer! Well, said I, meekly, feeling quite relieved that this was all the scolding I was to receive you see, you work hard, and we are sitting still that makes the difference. Si, si, said the little gloomy man, as he blew at the wooden logs with good-natured assiduity but you women  c@hilly. We men are stronger, that is it. And @he gave a final puff and posi@tively smiled. We soon learnt that, in Corsica, the word lady was an unknown quantity. When@ever, solicitous of our dignity, we used it in speaking of ourselves or companions, we were generally corrected by the natives, and the word woman substituted. The reason why I cannot tell for I fancy Corsicans are above any petty democratic pride of equality and they usually behave towards our sex with a kind courtesy that is the evident offshoot of the old national virtues of a brave and hospitable race. Forde CHAPTER XIII. A THIRTEEN HOURS' DRIVE. AT Corte we bade adieu to our not too fascinating Bastia coachman and the journey to Ajaccio we performed by dili@gence. The diligences that run between Corte and Ajaccio are not numerous, nor very convenient. Only one, going every other day, has a good banquette. The daily dili@gence, which is a poor stuffy little concern, goes, by way of a Hibernianism, at ten o'clock every night and all the journey is performed in the dark. As we, however, came to see the country, we w@aited for the diligence de la Concur@rence, as the best diligence is called, and engaged the three banquette seats. And very good ones they were, high up behind the coachman's box, and completely open,  a hood which could be raised or lowered at will. From this place we saw the country well, and the seat was roomy enough for three not very corpulent people. It is a matter of some difficulty to dis@cover the facts about the Ajaccio diligences. The hotels are in league with one or another of them, and the result is a pro@found ignorance concerning any but the favoured vehicle, which is not conducive to the comfort of the traveller. For instance, Madame Pierracci un@fortunately favoured the stuffy and ban@quetteless diligence she therefore swore by all her household gods that no other was in existence, and that by no possibility could we go at any other time, or by any other conveyance than the night diligence. She even denied the existence of any private vehicles whatever, that would hold our luggage, or more than two persons. It was only after going out ourselves to make inquiries, that we found that a man of the name of Laurenz would supply a private omnibus to Ajaccio and back for sixty francs and that M. Dionyse's diligence de la  of which the office was only a few doors from the hotel, ran every other morn@ing to the capital. This is the best dili@gence in Corsica and, for the modest sum of eleven francs, you may travel the twelve hours in the banquette, behind very fair horses. We started about six a.m., changing horses five times, and reaching Ajaccio at seven in the evening but the journey is not generally so long. It was an exquisite day, and the sun, even so early in the morning, was deli@ciously baking, said No. 3, decidedly oppressive, said No. 1. We departed in style, with our coachman on one side of the box and our conductor on the other, with five horses, and an ener@getic little black dog perched on the roof of the carriage, who evidently believed him@self the guardian of the whole concern, and at the approach of every stranger ran, frantically barking, backwards and forwards, along his elevated platform, to the imminent risk of his neck. Once, indeed, the small beast overbalanced himself, and was  by alighting on the conductor's shoulder, where he was quickly transferred to No. 2's knee, and his acquaintance culti@vated. During the whole journey the conductor remains the same, but the coachman changes with each relay of horses. The conductor was a big, fine man, with a good head, and remarkably well-informed. As, however, he thought it necessary to descend and refresh himself with a little water, as he remarked innocently at every village we passed, his conversation became less interesting and his company rather less agreeable towards the middle of the day and we were not sorry when he found it necessary to retire to the summit of the diligence, and the terrier's company, for an hour or two of snoring repose. Both he and the coachman were armed with an enormously long whip, some five or six yards in length and with these they simul@taneously slashed at the poor horses when@ever we came to any steep hill. This duty was, however, sometimes undertaken by a juvenile amateur of thirteen or  business and pleasure it was to run along by the side of the panting horses, cracking the long whip furiously against their steaming flanks, and encouraging them with every conceivable Corsican epithet of abuse and entreaty. The road to Vivario, where was the mid@day halt, was for some time a continual ascent among beautiful views of snow-streaked ranges on both sides. Further on, we passed through an avenue of chestnuts, not yet, however, in leaf, the great boles standing by the roadside among picturesque green and grey moss-covered boulders of limestone, from between which darted sparkling little streams and many waterfalls. When we again passed over this ground in June, the place was a soft fairyland of beauty, the bright green chestnuts bending lovingly over the great stones, and throwing dappled light and shade over the uneven turf. Monte Rotondo had accompanied us part of the way from Corte, but, at the large village of Serraggio, Monte D'Oro's  flanks started out in dazzling bril@liancy, and continued for the rest of the way to take its place. Serraggio is beautifully situated but it is not a tempting-looking village. The houses are tumble-down and dirty, and' the pigs appear to walk amicably in and out of the houses. From Serraggio to Vivario, passing by Ponte Vecchio, the route is perfectly lovely. It winds through the gorge of the Vecchio, the river foaming at the bottom, and wildest rocky hills, varied by snow mountains, rising up on either side. The peaks that stood over us were of the most eccentric shapes, pointing like grey and brown battlements up into the unclouded sky, and flowers of every description blossomed beside our path. The Mediterranean heath, especially, with its delicate little bell-shaped flowers and strong, sweet scent, grew luxuriantly by the roadside, generally in height from six to ten feet. Ponte Vecchio is exquisitely beautiful. At a winding turn in the road the tall one-arched bridge spans the boiling  gorge, surrounded by every eccentricity of rocky hill and pine-scattered snow mountain. It was evidently considered rather a show place, for the driver pulled up his vehicle, and we all descended to take a good look. Perhaps, too, he was not averse to resting his horses before the final climb to Vivario, for he gave a ready assent to the proposal of Nos. 2 and 3, that they should finish the distance on foot. How far is it ? we asked. About two kilomètres, mademoiselle. We had heard of the Corsican inability to reckon distances but, unfortunately, at the moment forgot it. So we set off, after a few minutes' rest above the lovely gorge, in an easy stroll after the now distanced dili@gence, nothing suspecting, and prepared to enjoy our mile and a half walk. The views were exquisite,-snow moun@tains rising before us on every side but the ascent was uncommonly steep, and our pace insensibly slackened. Only as the sun, after half an hour's re@tirement, came out in noonday force did  that we had left our umbrellas in the diligence. We began to boil as we toiled up the steep hill, with our pocket handkerchiefs under our hats, and the mocking diligence, ever decreasing, yet ever in sight, winding up the endless glare of white road above and beyond us. And still no village to be seen ! Presently we were overtaken by some native workmen going up the road with their tools. They increased their pace to come up with us, and then walked beside us conversing. How far is it to Vivario from here ? we asked, thinking surely we must be near our goal. About five kilomètres, mademoiselle, w@as the answer we received, to our mortifi@cation almost immediately followed by the usual question, Are you Frenchwomen ? Is it often as hot as this at this time of the year ? we inquired, as we trudged on despairingly. This hot ? It is not hot now this is only spring, was the unsympathetic reply. We walked on so fast that we  companions, who seemed astonished at the energy of Englishwomen, and stopped to remark upon it to some friendly road-menders a little further on. It was certainly six or seven kilomètres before, with faces like boiled lobsters, and much tried equa@nimity, we reached the promised land of Vivario, and, passing through a stable-yard of odoriferous propensities, ascended a little steep wooden staircase, or outside ladder, and entered the cool sitting-room of the village inn. The Vivario inn is really superior. The people are civil and obliging, the bedrooms are beautifully clean, the little sitting-room is nicely furnished, and there is an air of comfort and refinement about the household arrangements not often to be found else@where in Corsica. It possesses also a really charmingly furnished private sitting-room, full of rugs, pictures, easy-chairs, and other luxuries, as a rule unknown to Corsica, where any one in search of lovely scenery and healthy mountain air might well spend a week or two with great pleasure. When we arrived, lunch was ready.  a snug little party of four ladies and two gentlemen, the strangers being French and we improved our acquaintance with each other rapidly as we satisfied our hungry appetites and discussed our sweet@breads, duck, broccia, and dessert. It was a short acquaintance, however for on reaching Ajaccio our foreign friends went to the Hotel de France, whilst we went to Hotel Germania, and we saw no more of each other. After a good rest and refreshment, we started anew, with fresh horses, for the Foce Pass. The people of Vivario had all assembled to see us off, and two priests walked up and down amongst their flock, pretending to read, but in reality as much interested in the strangers as the smallest of the crowd. As the diligence rolled off with a Hué, yoop ! from the driver, we nodded good-bye to the friendly looking assembly, and a number of hats were immediately taken off, the men wishing us salut or bonjour. Only the two priests declined to take any notice of us, and retired to a low wall a few  off, where, sheltered, as they fancied, by their shady wideawakes, they peered at us curiously out of the corners of their eyes. It was a terrible mount up to the top of the Foce Pass, and, long before w@e reached it, the five poor horses were ex@hausted with pulling, and driver and con@ductor with beating. Amateur flagellants were at a premium, as we toiled painfully up the smooth road, steep as the side of a house, with greenhouse shrubs bordering it, fir-trees on the hills above, and snow mountains overhanging them. In two or three hours w@e reached the forest of Vizzavona, and continued to pass right through it. The forests of Corsica are almost the speci@alité of the country. Wide and trackless, whole mountains are covered by these splendid forests, in many of which the sound of the hatchet has never been heard, nor the foot of man passed, but where the birds, the snakes, and the insects live and die unmolested. The trees which compose them are often magnificent, and consist of larches, pines, firs, beeches, and chestnuts, with a mixture of other  Larriccio pine, which sometimes attains a height of two hundred feet, almost without branches, but with a thick leafy tuft at the summit of the long straight stem, is a peculiar beauty of Corsica, and, I believe, almost unknown elsewhere. The chief forests in the island are those of Sorba and Vizzavona in the centre, Aitone and Valdoniello in the north, and Cagna and Bavella in the south. Cagna and Valdoniello are the largest, stretching over miles of hill and dale, and fighting with the snow for the rocky ledges on the mountain crests. Vizzavona, Valdoniello, and Bavella are almost equally beautiful, and Sorba not much behind them but perhaps the views on each side of the Bocca di Bavella, or Bavella Pass, are the finest in Corsica. Half of the forest of Vizzavona consists of beeches, and the other half of pines but there are also a good many chestnuts, which were not yet in leaf. Red and brown branches mixed with the soft young green of the beeches, and the darker hue of the pines, as we  steep ascent under a thick avenue through which, on the descending side, came glimpses of the dazzling snow of Monte Rotondo, rising up from beneath us to a giddy height in the cloudy sky. Countless bags of caterpillars hung from every tree, and from the branches above our heads. These bags were some of them a foot long, and had the appearance of white muslin. It seemed as if it was Christmas Day in the forest, and a quantity of nomad cooks had hung out their pudding bags upon the boughs. After a while, snow patches began to show, and, when at last we reached the summit, thick snow lay all around us. A young Corsican who sat on the box before us was friendly and communicative, and, a little while before reaching the pass, pointed out to us a queer little isolated fort, standing on a lonely hill-top just above the forest which, as he informed us, with a twinkle of his eye, was built to defend the pass from the English invader. Stone shanties, with log or pebble roofs, stood here and there along the  @hovels, built for the accommo@dation of the road-menders, or cantonniers and, except the little grey fort on its ex@posed hill, were the only signs of human life, past or present, in the lonely forest. We paused for a few minutes on the top of the pass to let the horses regain their breath, to look to the harness for the long steep descent, and probably also for the conductor to refresh himself with another dose of water at the miserable little inn on the plateau. The two leaders also were loosed from the traces, and, with a parting flick at their hind quarters, were sent cantering down the road in front of us. Meanwhile, we got down from our perch, and tasted Corsican snow for the first time. The col, or Bocca, was bare of trees and we looked down upon magnificent views. These cols are nearly always denuded of vegetation, even when surrounded on every side by rich forests. Exposed to the winds from every quarter, they rise out of their green nest, grey and bleak, like a bald head surrounded by a thick monastic  one side of us lay the forest through which we had passed on the other lay a chain of blue inland hills and valleys, and the chestnut region of Bocognano. Indigo clouds, fringed and angry, hung above, and everything was toned down to the same deep stormy blue, as the thunder growled heavily beneath us. The snow lies exceedingly thick upon the Foce Pass in winter, and only three weeks before our arrival some fellow-countrymen of ours had experienced the difficulty of crossing the island between Corte and Ajaccio. The diligence had broken down, and they had been compelled to walk nine miles through heavy snow to the nearest halting-place and this in the month of March. Yet it gave one almost a shudder to leave the cold, clear bracing air of the col, with its sunny sky and snowy hills, for the blue-black growling inferno at our feet. But it had to be done, and we little guessed with what celerity. No sooner were the passengers reseated, and the driver and conductor each in his place, than both the long whips  furiously, the horses were put into a gallop, and down we went, flying over the steep winding road like the wind, the men shouting madly, the carriage swaying from side to side, and the rocks and trees passing us as in a dream. Every corner turned was a miracle of skill on the part of the clever horses, and, as we hung mid-air over the precipice, balanced like Mahomet's coffin twixt earth and heaven, we one and all mentally breathed our last prayer, and thought of the obituary columns of the Times or Galignani. The pace grew more fast and furious, and the fun more boisterous than ever when we sighted a porcine happy family on the road before us, and enjoyed the sport of a chase. Certainly those pigs ran as never could run British or civilized pigs. The family consisted of a stout mamma, three little ones, and a handsome large papa, one of the hogs of the country, with a good deal of the wild boar about him, being of a bright orange colour, with high, stiff, black bristles up his back. The chase was kept up for a mile or two, with wonderful spirit  of the exhausted pigs, and amid a chorus of laughter from drivers and pas@sengers, until at length a little roughness in the side of the road allowed the panting, squeaking victims to escape down the pre@cipitous slope. Chasing the two leaders seemed tame work after this and No. 3 ventured to put in a word for the general safety of the public. Have the goodness, she said with dignity, touching the arm of the conductor, and casually moving her other hand towards the region of her pocket, to go a little slower. This pace is unsafe. The conductor looked at her with a grin of good-humoured contempt. Oh, said he briefly, and as if it settled the point, les femmes ont toujours peur ! I am not afraid, she responded I fear not very truthfully , but I possess only one neck, and I do not wish to break it ! Well, I have only one neck too ! Ah ! but yours is evidently of less value to you than mine, or you would not risk it so  shrug, and a mutter concerning t@he relative value of heads, male and female, was heard indistinctly but the exordium was not without its effect, and, rather to our astonishment, the conductor allowed his whip to be influenced by the words of woman. For the next few miles, we were allowed to run down the mountain side at a less breakneck pace, and could enjoy the splendid grey snow-crowned rocks that rose up from the other side of the gorge beneath us, and the chestnut-covered walls towering above our heads, with less fear that every look would be our last, finally reaching the village of Bocognano in safety about four o'clock. Our fears were not unjustifiable. When, some weeks later, we returned up this Foce Pass to Corte in our own private carriage, I noticed one of the many black wooden crosses by the roadside about half-way up the pass and, by chance, asked our driver if he knew its story. Oh yes, said he that is where the prefect was killed a year ago. How did that happen ? we  down the pass, something broke in the harness, and of course the diligence went over the precipice. The coachman who is a friend of mine, and told me about it jumped off somehow and saved himself -he drives the same diligence now-but of course both horses and passengers were killed. There happened however, for@tunately, to be only one passenger, the prefect of this part, and he was pitched on his head just here, and died on the spot. Had our diligence upset, there would have been seven mortuary crosses to bedeck the mountain side. @@@@ CHAPTER XIV. A BANDIT VILLAGE. BOCOGNANO is, par excellence, the village of the bandits. It was formerly the home of the brothers Bella Coschia, the latest and most famous of the bandits of the present generation. It is difficult to get at the truth regarding these two men, but there is little doubt that they have never had much to recommend them. Out of their own village they are generally admitted to have been regular ruffians although, in Bocognano, they are declared to be most pleasing fellows. There is a little shyness, however, in speaking of their errors, especially in this neighbourhood, which perhaps is not much to be wondered at, considering that sixty members of their family inhabit the village. The younger of the two brothers is  and the elder one not more than fifty but for some years these wild animals have shown signs of taming, and now lead a tolerably harmless and inoffensive life on the mountain side, where, by tacit consent,@ so long as they thus keep out of the way, they remain unmolested by the gendarmes. A dark ravine on the blue flank of Monte D'Oro, a few miles above and beyond Bocognano, was pointed out to us as the almost inaccessible home of the two bandits. Their native village receives from them the milk of their mountain goats, and sup@plies them with the necessaries of life. By day, the men remain in their rocky stronghold but at night they constantly descend the ravine and visit their friends and relations at Bocognano. Night and day are the same to these wild, lawless climbers, who leap down the precipitous crags which separate their cavern dwelling from the village, with fearless security, in the darkest night. A gentleman we afterwards met, who had been introduced, by special favour, to their stronghold, and appeared to have  call much, described them as well-educated men. They could both, he said, speak and read either French or Italian and he had seen a letter written by one of them in the most idiomatic French. The younger brother, he asserted, became a bandit because of the conscription pre@ferring a roving and lawless life, and amateur skirmishes on his own account with the gendarmerie, to a forced service in the French army. The Bella Coschias, however, were not of any particular rank amongst their fellow-villagers, although their name, like that of so many Corsicans, is one well known and a good one in Italy. A driver whom we employed later on, and who was much more trustworthy than our French friend, afterwards told us more of the bandit brothers. On one occasion, one of them had made his way for some reason to Ajaccio, and our coachman drove him back by night in a close carriage to Bocognano-some twenty miles. This was several years ago, when the man was undoubtedly a mauvais  and evil-doing in every direction,@ simply for the gratification of @his own bad passions and yet neither our driver, a re@markably superior, unprejudiced man, nor his master, a well-to-do coach owner, dreamt of doing otherwise than protecting the bandit from the French government. It will be some time yet before law is recognized in Corsica, or the natives learn to give up, into its hands, their right of judgment regarding private feuds and local offenders. After all, the excuse for this condition of things lies in the mal-administration of justice under which poor Corsica groaned for centuries, and which forced public opinion to take the law into its own hands, and regard the procedure of the courts as only a source of foreign oppression and complicated misfortune. The same cause probably has to answer for the vendetta, for so many years the curse of Corsica, and the disgrace of a noble people. The vendetta has been the internal dis@ease of the island, breaking out again and again, and often sapping the strength  of the community. It was the natural result of a hopelessly corrupt legislature among a warlike people of strong passions and revengeful propen@sities and as such, must not be judged too hardly. It is an incontrovertible fact that the law of the vendetta was, in its first action, not only allowed, but enforced, among the early Jews by the Mosaic dispensation. The Corsicans if we put aside the humanizing effect of Christianity have had greater reason and excuse for their practice of private retribution than ever had the Jews for the Jews had a court of unassailable purity presided over by the delegate of the Deity Himself, whilst the poor Corsican could hope for no verdict unbought by gold, or uninfluenced by party spirit, and could bring down no judgment on the head of assassin or robber, save that meted out by the wrathful strength of his own right hand. But a custom which began not unreasonably, and with so much  until it became a monstrous @horror in the land. Men were not content with the pursuit and death of the murderer or the robber only-his whole family became their lawful prey and, in return, every member of that family sought to shed the blood of their pursuers. Children, before they were born, were doomed to the same unrelenting life of savage hate and bloodshed and boys of tender years were brought by the mothers that bare them, before the bloody corpse of their father, and made to swear, with baby lips, undying vengeance and murderous retribution, so soon as their hands should be strong enough to grasp a gun, and their skill sufficient to point it home to the heart of the foe. Thus the hand of every man was against his neighbour and this not for serious causes only. Soon, the vendetta between different families began to arise from the most trivial causes. A man spoke slight@ingly of another man's friend or relative, or, maybe, his dog-a dispute occurred@ a measurement, t@he opinions of a third. A hot word was spoken out came the ready dagger, or the ever-loaded gun or pistol,-a human heart ceased beating, and a murderer fled to the maquis on the mountain side, or the caverns on the lonely rocks, and became thenceforth a pariah, issuing only to commit fresh murders, supported secretly by his relations, but never more known to the world at large until at length a retri@butive bullet laid him low, or his hiding place was betrayed, and he miserably slain by the military police of his country. This hydra-headed monster had grown to such an extent, that between the years 1770 and 1800, when the vendetta was at its height, some 7000 murders occurred, all on its account and only the strenuous measures of the French government suc@ceeded in checking the evil. It was made penal for a man to carry a gun or any other weapon, except under certain restrictions, and in certain cases. This law continued in force for a few years, and worked so well that the number of violent deaths decreased almost to nil.  the law has been rescinded the last few years, and now again you see every man with his loaded gun. And the number of murders, although nothing like what it was in former times, yet has increased again greatly. This inland region is specially the region of arms. You rarely meet a peasant with@out a gun strapped behind his shoulder, and a pistol or two in his vest and our driver informed me that they are always carried loaded. With what ? I asked. With bullets, of course. To kill game ? asked I knowing, however, that this was not the place for large game . Pour se defendre, said he, with a queer look. That means-to shoot one another as soon as a quarrel occurs ? He shrugged his shoulders silently, and smiled assent. In the vendetta one touch of barbarity is spared-the women and children are  where women have taken the law into their own hands, and shot a faithless lover, or even a family foe, are not unusual and of course, they are constantly the provoking cause of many a masculine vendetta. As a rule, these female murderers are leniently judged. One young woman, well known to our driver, had, a short time before, openly shot her lover through the heart with a pistol, but had only been con@demned to six months' imprisonment while another, for a similar offence, but probably rather less of provocation, had received sentence of a year's incarceration. Capital punishment is abolished in Corsica, and imprisonment for life substituted. It is doubtful whether this latter penalty, to the free islander, is not a more dreaded calamity than even the loss of life. But the fierce and revengeful nature which has fostered the vendetta is combined with many noble qualities. The Corsican is, and always has been, honest, hospitable, and truthful and he would scorn to take advan@tage of a lonely stranger. There is  essentially manly about these people and the base and petty vices of more so-called refined countries are unknown to them. There is an immense difference between them and the people of the neigh@bouring island of Sardinia, or that of Sicily. The Corsicans have a thorough and well-merited contempt for the natives of Sardinia. They are nothing, those Sardes, but a race of robbers, assassins, and liars, said a man to me with emphasis at Bonifacio. Bonifacio is the nearest Corsican town to Sardinia, and looks across some narrow straits towards the Italian island with no friendly feelings. From what we heard of Sardinia, travel@ling is neither safe nor agreeable there. It is not a particularly interesting country save for its antiquarian remains, being far flatter and less full of natural beauties than Corsica and, although it boasts a railway, it is as far behind its neighbour in civilization and in the character of its inhabitants, as in the facilities it affords to travellers. The inns are, I believe, worse, and dirtier than in Corsica the roads are not so  brigands abound whilst there is little in the character of Sardinian scenery to compensate for the domestic discomfort. The people are reported sly, and as possessing little of the honesty and courtesy common in Corsica on the contrary, they regard travellers as their lawful prey. The railway trains are occasionally fired at and pillaged by brigands, and highway robbers still infest the country. This was never the case in Corsica. For centuries the people have prided themselves upon their honesty, and a murder for greed of gold is unknown. The traveller's purse and his person are safe, amongst the wildest and roughest of the inhabitants. Quarrelling over money interests is unusual and a vendetta is said to have been rarely, if ever, caused by a dispute over such matters. The killing and slaying amongst the people has been barbarous enough, Heaven knows but it has rarely owed its origin to any lower motive than a mistaken or exaggerated idea of honour, or, at the worst, a love of lawless freedom and  difference between the Corsican bandit and the Sardinian or Sicilian brigand is the difference of races far apart from each other as the poles. Notwithstanding their contiguity, the two islands have rarely had anything to do with each other for many centuries, and the wild white breakers that roll, nine months of the year, between the Bouches de Bonifacio, separate two nationalities that have never known sym@pathy. A Corsican bandit can occasionally be a much nearer neighbour than one suspects. A gentleman at Bocognano told us that a bandit, about a year ago, had spent six months in a cave at the bottom of a garden close to Ajaccio. During this time, he was regularly supplied at night with food by one or two friends, at which time also he emerged from his hiding-place and walked abroad with caution and, at the end of the six months, took his departure and escaped to the mountains near. The garden was close to the house, and the bandit, in his gloomy hole, must have listened almost daily to the voices of the children playing about,  the householder and his wife as they strolled up and down. It was only after the bird had flown that the owner was made aware of the strange visitor he had unconsciously harboured for so long in the vicinity of his home. Did it not give him a shudder to think of the man lying there close by, night and day ? I asked.@@ Oh no, was the reply why should he fear ? The bandit had no quarrel with him. Walking through the lonely mountains, and in and out of the wild country rocks, one feels that one is in the natural country of the fierce outlaw but in sunny, modern, cheery little Ajaccio, it is almost as difficult to realize the existence or the close proximity of the bandit as it would be in a Belgravian drawing-room. For some time after leaving the dirty uninteresting-looking little village of Boco@gnano, the road continues very fine, descend@ing constantly among magnificent mountain forms, heaped together in every direction, and passing under the grateful shade of young-leaved oaks and budding  Geissbach falls dropped beside us, and long-haired goats, black, and brown, and parti-coloured, with graceful heads and large shy eyes, bounded past in terror. At a village boasting the queer name of Fiasco, we took up our last relay of horses, and our fifth coachman. He was a young fellow with a gentle, smiling face and courteous manner. His horses were, con@trary to most of the diligence horses, in excellent condition. They had not a rough or a sore place upon them apparently, which was more than could be said for any of the others and their driver neither required nor used his long whip, nor did he indulge in the various and inharmonious yells of the other four coachmen. This young man was afterwards intro@duced to us by a fellow-driver as a nephew and great admirer of the two Bella Coschia bandits. He looks kind, said I. He is a '@brave homme,' was the warm reply and would not injure a fly -which, I have no doubt, was true. The barbarous condition in which  especially mules, are driven in Corsica, is much@ to be deplored. It is a rare excep@tion to meet with a mule without one or more sores upon its back or legs and we sometimes saw them at work with an open wound the size of a saucer upon them. The flies in summer must be a terrible aggravation to the sufferings of these poor beasts. As a rule, however, it is only the draught mules which are thus wounded and the riding mules are generally whole and well-looking. There is great excuse for the condition of the animals in the steep roads and the wretched pay received by their owners, the charettiers. Forced to bring heavy loads of wood down mere mountain paths, dangerously steep and twisting, working often night and day for very insufficient pay, and often at risk of life and limb to themselves, these poor charettiers are constrained to over@work their mules, as they are themselves overworked, and have neither the power nor the inclination to spare them  I do not think the Corsican is often a voluntarily cruel driver. I never, or rarely, saw one of these wood-carters beat@ing or personally ill-treating his mules. But all over the island there is a tacit indifference to animal suffering. I wish the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals would establish a branch for the service of mules and horses in Corsica. But they would probably find it hot work at first, as these are not a people who approve of interference in any quarter. One lady, well known in Ajaccio, who took up a short time ago the cause of the poor mules, and made an effort to bring to justice one or two owners of ill-used animals, was rewarded by a small hornet's nest about her ears and, I was told, had a note sent her anonymously à l'Irlandais, in which she was informed that it was well for her she was of the weaker sex, or she might have suffered for her temerity ! As we approached the neighbourhood of Ajaccio, the mountains lowered their  soon gave place to wooded hills and, beyond this, to fine rocks. Then, as the sun sank slowly towards the horizon, the fading sunlight fell upon a foaming river following the road, on one side, and lit up the upper part of the rich shrub-covered cliff which overhung it on the other. We were now almost on level land, and a broad plain lay before us, about six miles long, marshy and malarious, at the end of which was the wide-stretching Mediter@ranean, blue and still, with a white tongue of land reaching out, and dotted with little houses sparkling in the last rays of evening sunshine. This bright little town, lying on its w@hite arm far out into the lovely sea, was Ajaccio. Round it curved many a bay and beyond it gleamed many a distant island, as we sped over the plain at an easy gallop, under young Bella Coschia's gentle rein. Then came an English-looking lane or two, with grassy banks and overhanging trees and then, a sudden turn on to what may be called the Esplanade of Ajaccio-a broad flat road, shaded by a  of chestnuts and sycamores, winding along the shore of the bay, past the quay and the statue of Napoleon, and up the hilly street of the gay little town. No place could have looked fairer than did Ajaccio on our first view of it. Sea and sky were glowing crimson with sunset hues, the hills and promontories on the other side of the bay were a rich purple, while the houses shone bright and clean against the vivid background, their windows painted gold, and the streets shaded by fresh-leaved young trees. The little town was all astir in the fresh@ness and cool of a lovely spring evening for it was just the time when, in Corsica, men, women, and children are all abroad in the streets. Gay stalls of oranges and vegetables lined the ascent bright red and blue uniforms mixed with blue blouses and brown velveteens mule carts, with their jingling bells and scarlet trappings, ran up and down merrily and men in their shirt sleeves and every Corsican seems to wear a white shirt sat before their open  their pipes, with children and dogs playing round them, and their wives, in white or coloured head-gear, standing near in gossip under the trees. A few young ladies, got up in tight dresses and frizzed hair, likewise walked, in couples, or arm in arm with a dark-complexioned father, solemnly up and down while whiskered Frenchmen sat in front of the little cafés under their awnings, and sailors of several nations rolled merrily along the streets, whistling or singing. Then on through the main street of the town, out again upon the blue sea, the Place de Napoleon with its fine statues of the first Napoleon and his four brothers, past the Hotel de France close by, and up the Cours de Grandval a little way, planted with its avenue of young chestnuts,-on to Hotel Germania, lying against a wooded hill, the last house in the street, with front door open to welcome the traveller, and green shutters just being turned back from the shaded windows. Oh, the delights of once more entering an establishment where the polished  with cleanliness, where the paper did not hang in foul strips from the walls, where indescribable odours did not greet one from every open window and up every staircase, and where the reptile and the insect knew no abiding-place ! Oh, the revelling in tubs and cold water, the luxury of a bell with some one to answer it, and the charms of bread not sour, and butter that could be eaten ! Howsoever beautiful be nature, the most aesthetic mind is too much a slave to the vile body to know perfect mental enjoyment when living in constant dread of physical discomfort and disgust. Any one who has ever travelled out of the beaten track will understand the joy with which we took possession of our dainty little rooms at Ajaccio, after our week's roughing, and will excuse this rhapsody.ody.  XV THE TOWN OF AJACCIO. ENGLISH people are apt, at Ajaccio, to incur a good deal of public obloquy and well-merited contempt by their pronunciation of the name. In their Northern ignorance, they are accustomed to pronounce the two c's soft and find considerable difficulty in schooling their tongues to the popular sneeze-like intonation. In this dilemma, I bethought me of a plan adopted by a fond and phonetic mother I had known years ago, to cure a failing common amongst those of tender years, viz., the adding of an agreeable but unneces@sary r to those Christian names which terminate in a vowel, and by whom the following couplet was composed, to be re@peated twenty times daily by her children- Give Anna-an apple, and Julia-a cake Send Maria-Eliza-afloat on the  on this precedent, I put my poetic muse to work, and, in an incredibly short space of time, had composed this chaste and elegant refrain- Ajaccio ! Ajaccio ! What name so very catchy, O ! Is there a town can match thee, 0, To turn adrift a scratch trio Of English dames, Ajaccio ? This verse I took, as a sort of mental pill, last thing before getting into bed, repeating the dose whenever I happened to wake in the night. At breakfast time, and whilst employed at my toilet, I continued the same process, mixing Ajaccio up with coffee and rolls and, before noon, had the comfort of feeling that the disease was cured, and the national sneeze effectually imitated. This trifling incident is only named for the benefit of any future English travellers afflicted with a like difficulty. Ajaccio is one of the most delightful little towns possible for a residence. Both climate and population wear a sunny air that can hardly fail, one would think, to put even  British grumbler into good spirits and a good temper. The views on every side are smiling and lovely, without being oppressively grand. For everyday use such a landscape wears best, as, in domestic life, a cheerful comely woman is preferable to a magnificently attired belle. Soft purple hills, a blue, gently heaving sea, and pretty white villas, nestling amongst groves of trees, are the sights of Ajaccio, all melting and glowing in the glory of the mid-day sun, or gathering, every half-hour, new lights and shadows, till the haze of evening. The town itself is far cleaner than any other in Corsica the streets are gay and busy, with a French liveliness the inhabit@ants have a remarkable talent for smiling, and the tradespeople are the most civil in the world. Their politeness absolutely knows no bounds. They place the most unbounded confidence in strangers and you may enter a shop without your purse and carry off an armful of purchases, to the entire satisfaction of the owner, who  on being told of your name and residence. It is apparently considered quite a favour to be allowed to show you the way, and the straw hats are pulled off with a polished smile worthy of Beau Brummel. One man, at a chemist's door, went so far as to thank us for having thus appealed to him ! Another, an optician, a sweet-looking old gentleman, in a grey slop and wide-awake, after having vainly searched for some time for an eye-glass to suit No. 3, was quite overcome when she apologized for the useless trouble given and showed off the talents of his handsome black and white retriever, which, at his request, leaped upon a chair to kiss his master, with a paw placed on either shoulder. The shops at Ajaccio are fairly good, and more modern in appearance than at Bastia and certainly they deserve to be patronized, if it is only to learn good manners. The climate of Ajaccio is lovely very little rain falls there. During our different visits to the town this highly rainy and unsatisfactory  one day, I think, was really wet and I noticed that the weather generally seemed brighter here than elsewhere. In winter it is charming. November, December, January, February, and March, vary exceedingly little in temperature, rang@ing from fifty-five to sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit, with an average of sixty-two degrees but Miss Campbell declares January and February to be the most perfect months of the year in Ajaccio and March is cer@tainly far less windy, chilly, and dusty here than on the Riviera. In April the temperature generally rises considerably, and towards the end of the month the winter visitors begin to leave in a body. It becomes then rather too relax@ing, but is wonderfully free from mosquitoes and fevers, and other Southern plagues, up to the month of July when, although not positively dangerous, like the towns on the eastern coast, it is decidedly not healthy for any Northern stranger who may be enough of a salamander to brave its tropical heat. In July and August, even the  their big umbrellas, dread the glaring sun the upper classes all remove to their country houses or summer lodgings up among the hills, and the snakes and lizards hold high jinks on deserted road and furnace-like rock whilst the scorpions, whose sting is death to man or beast, occasionally vary their amusements by appearing within the houses. Ajaccio is more and more becoming a winter resort for consumptive persons. The temperature is as mild as that of Mentone, and more equable. It is less expensive, equally comfortable, and equally beautiful in its surroundings. The one drawback, of course, is the voyage but good vessels run two or three times a week from Marseilles to Ajaccio direct, a voyage of sixteen hours and this is decidedly the best and easiest route for invalids unless exceptionally bad sailors , as they then avoid the smaller vessels, and the long cold land journey over the interior from Bastia. The Hotel Germania in Ajaccio is excel@lent, and leaves nothing to be  are, as I have said, two hotels in the town both large and good. The Hotel de France is decidedly cheaper, and, we were told, was comfortable, and well-managed by an exceedingly attentive land@lord but I fancy a few luxuries to be had at Hotel Germania are not attainable there. But the great attraction for invalids in Hotel Germania is that it is the usual nucleus of the resident English. The chaplain here for the winter season usually stays at this hotel the house is warm, and airy, and spacious the bedrooms are dainty and well furnished, and there is a cosy salle de lecture, or drawing-room, containing a good piano. Tidy little maids, in muslin caps and aprons, attend upon the ladies' wants the mistress is kind and attentive, and the food is said to be rather superior to that at the other hotel. From ten to twelve francs a day is the usual price at the Hotel Germania for pension in the season. This includes a nice room with sofa and  and three meals, including six o'clock table d'hôte. The hotel is out of the town, but within two minutes' walk of it built against a green wooded hill, covered with prickly pear, and thickly populated by nightingales and has a nice little garden of its own, rich in roses and scarlet geraniums. Every winter a little English band of visitors, from twenty to forty in number, gathers here and the society within the house is generally exceedingly pleasant and sociable. Outside, there are lovely walks and drives carriages can be hired at two francs the hour and the pretty English church in which, during the winter, service is held two or three times a week by the chaplain is within a stone's throw. For a botanist, there are ferns and flowers innumerable along the roads and for a conchologist, there are plenty of pretty shells on the long range of sands. The town itself has remarkably few smells for Corsica, and strangers can walk about without being followed and mobbed by juvenile  Place @du Marche, out of the principal street, and looking upon the open quay, is a pretty square. In the centre of it, gazing out upon the blue sea and the bluer hills, rises a large marble statue of the first Napoleon, surrounded by little fan palms and other shrubs, and by light fountain jets. The statue is not worth much, but its position and surroundings are well chosen and the Ajaccio fountains, unlike those of Trafalgar Square, play constantly, not occa@sionally. Place Buonaparte, a little further on, in the Cours G@randval, is very fine. It is just beyond the street and the town, and is a wide open space facing the sea, and in front of the tree-lined Boulevard. A large and imposing group stands in its midst. Napoleon on horseback is the central figure on each side of him stand two of his brothers, guarding, as it were, the four corners of the dais on which he is stationed. The figures are in bronze, and well-exe@cuted and the group is most striking, seen from the Boulevard, standing out vividly, as it does, against the perfect blue of sea and  the group are some remarkably hideous but useful drinking fountains an oasis for the thirsty traveller in the midst of the white, dusty, unshadowed Place. The cathedral for Ajaccio is an ancient bishopric is but a poor building. It is small, ornamented with a few pillars of grey Corsican marble, with local black marble round the principal altar, and another of a peculiar but not pretty tint, dappled yellow, decorating some of the side altars. Two of these, both dedicated to the Virgin, were illuminated in a singular way. A slit was made in the roof, through which the light of a lamp streamed down upon the picture, shining upon the head of the Madonna, and gilding the sky behind her. The images of the saints were peculiarly grotesque and out of taste in t@heir adorn@ments, and one wondered how any one, with the smallest sense of the ludicrous, could have allowed such absurdities to mar a religious spot. A brightly coloured Madonna, with a very yellow face, placed upon a small pedestal, wore a huge wreath of w@hite  surmounting and almost concealing her most uninviting countenance, whilst another hung on her outstretched wrist, and innumerable glass beads and gaudy brass rings decked throat, and dress, and well-displayed fingers. But, further on, was a far more ridiculous figure on another pedestal. It was, I fancy, St. Nicodemus-an exceedingly black-browed personage, got up in a species of ball-costume, with a large white wreath deco@rating his thick black hair, and another, equally big, hung round his neck and fal@ling below a heavy beard, w@hilst a long red-beaded rosary fell from his extended arm. If the clergy of Ajaccio, however, have no sense of humour, they apparently under@stand the meaning of hard work for I was struck by a written notice, affixed to one of the confessionals, which stated that a certain Abbé Simconi, one of the cathedral staff, attends daily here from 6 to 11 a.m., and from 1 to 6 p.m., for the purpose of hearing the confessions of his flock. After this, no one can say that the Corsican clerics are idle. Forde CHAPTER XVI. NAPOLEON'S HOUSE. ONE of the first sights to be visited in Ajaccio is the house belonging to the Buonaparte family, and in which Napoleon was born. Every Corsican is, of course, proud to the backbone of the great national hero and as Corte seems to breathe the presence of the wise, heroic, unselfish Paoli, so Ajaccio is full of the footmarks of the world-famed conqueror, the second son of Carlo Buonaparte, the Corsican solicitor. The emperor, during his lifetime, did not perhaps do much for his country. He loved it, but the benefits he intended to confer upon it were, like many of our good deeds, from the time of Felix downwards, put off to a more convenient season and those he effected consisted chiefly in  of a few good roads in the island, and the raising to posts of honour of many of his more talented compatriots. His adoption of French nationality, and eleva@tion to the imperial throne, smoothed the path of submission to his proud and inde@pendent countrymen, who delight to say now, with an excusable and harmless conceit, of their paternal government, We have annexed France. At one time it was proposed to rechristen Ajaccio after the name of the great emperor but this was wisely given up, and the old title supposed to be from an ancient hero called Ajazzo was retained. Turning out of a main street to the right of the sparkling Place du Marché, runs a narrow entry, opening upon a tiny square, formed by a garden and cottage on one side, and by a high, comfortable-looking, but unpretentious house on the other. Place Letitzia so called from Napoleon's mother is the name of this little square, and the high, modern house was the home of Napoleon. Going through a gate into a little  knocked at the cottage door smothered in roses and creepers, and an aged crone, of dainty appearance and pleasant counte@nance, came out, key in hand. This old lady is the concierge of the house, and an old servant of the Buonaparte family. As she was toothless, and spoke a most extra@ordinary jumble of French and Italian, consisting chiefly of French words with an Italian termination, it was difficult to understand much that she said but there was no mistaking her devotion to the family. She remembered Madame Mere well, whose death occurred so many years after that of her exiled son and she spoke with enthusiasm of her present mistress, a princess of the Buonaparte family, and daughter of Prince Lucien, who lives in the upper storey of the house. Ah ! she said, laughing and clasping her hands, she is so sweet and so kind, my dear princess, and so pretty ! If you could but see her ! But she is now gone to Mass, unfortunately. She does not seem more than sixteen, she is so bright and  she is nearly sixty. Look at her portrait here. We did not see the princess, whose tame parrot kept calling from the upper regions. But we heard that her old servant's admira@tion of her amiability was not unmerited. This lady gave some pleasant réunions at her house last winter, at which some of the English, resident in Ajaccio, attended. In some of the rooms were drawings by the late Prince Imperial, who, with his mother, some years ago, visited the home of the founder of their dynasty. The empress, then in the heyday of prosperity and glory, and little foreseeing the widowed@ exile so soon to come upon her, was yet deeply moved as she went through the deserted rooms, and shed tears of emotion. Passing through the unpretentious door@way, we went up a stone staircase, three or four feet wide, until we reached the first storey. It consisted of a succession of six or seven rooms, all opening one into the other, and coming out finally at the other side of the little landing. The rooms were square and comfortable-looking, of a  most of them with chairs or armoires, or some articles of furniture left in them. Some of the tables and chests were very pretty, of marble, or inlaid with coloured woods. On the first storey was the reception-room -a long, low apartment, from which the chandeliers had been removed, but still hung round with numerous small mirrors, and prettily painted. In this room M. Buonaparte who was a man of position, his family being considered the second in Ajaccio, and he himself being rather a noted local orator and politician received a good deal of society, assisted by his beautiful and graceful wife, Letitia Ramolini. The portraits of Madame Mere, taken in her youth, some of which were hanging on the walls of her house, show us the spirituelle beauty, with her dark, brilliant eyes, her sweet smile, and her bewitching features. Few women have had a more romantic life. Married at the age of seventeen, to a husband who fell passionately in  her before she was much more than a child, and whose rank was scarcely equal to her own, her devotion to him and to her children was only equalled by her remark@able spirit and her natural ambition. It is easy to see whence the first Napoleon gained his early childish aspirations after greatness. The wife of a simple avocat in a small Mediterranean island, she lived to see four out of her five sons crowned as kings, and two of her daughters become princesses. But she lived, too, to see those kings de@throned and disgraced, to see the greatest of them dying slowly with a broken heart and herself to close her eyes on a foreign shore, exiled and sad of heart, driven out from her own country, and repudiated by the very town in which her son was born. If ever any woman had cause to learn the sad meaning of the oft-repeated adage, Sic transit gloria mundi, it was Madame Mere in her prolonged old age at Ro@me, where, though still surrounded by loving and admiring friends, the beautiful old lady must often have looked back with a  to the cosy house at Ajaccio, in which, years ago, she and Carlo Buonaparte ruled over their numerous family of sons and daughters, little dreaming of slippery sceptres, or of the unsubstantial greatness of conquest. The reception-room windows opened out upon a paved and enclosed terrace, sur@rounded by flowers. Here Napoleon and his four brothers used often to play, peeping through the balustrade upon the sunny street below and here the old concierge picked us each a spray or two of scented geranium that was said to have been growing there ever since his time. A little bedroom on this storey is shown as the one in which the great man was born, and here is still the small iron bed@stead always used by madame. This storey was kept for the use of Monsieur and Madame Buonaparte and their friends, and for the reception-rooms. The second storey, up another stone flight, was devoted to the children. Here we saw Napoleon's bedroom, with a broken chair or two, and a curious old inlaid  c@hest, in which he kept his playthings and clothes. Leading out of it was the children's play-room, where the boy, always military in his tastes, made tiny cannon, and foug@ht on the table mimic battles, which, out of the house, developed into assaults and sieges with his brothers or schoolfellows, of whom he was always the leader. Even as a child, Napoleon was the ruling spirit among his brothers he was a second Joseph, to whose superior energy and genius the rest of his family intuitively bowed down. All these rooms were airy, large, and pleasant-looking and I felt that I had not sufficiently realized before, the comfortable position and ample means belonging to the Buonaparte family. We came down the stone staircase, and out of the cool, shady rooms, with a strange new feeling of the reality of Moscow, of Waterloo, and of St. Helena and, going across the sunny glare of the little garden opposite, acceded to the kind invitation of our old woman to visit the snug sitting-room. This cottage and garden, in which  her husband live, belongs to the Buona@partes, but is a gift to her for life. Her little sitting-room, cosily furnished and full of flowers, is a perfect commentary on European history for the last century. Scarcely an inch of the four walls is left uncovered by photograph, engraving, or sketch nearly all of historical interest. Madame Mere and the first Napoleon commence the series of portraits-taken from life, nearly a hundred years ago, in their native land many of the emperor's brothers and sisters are represented also the present Princess Marianna, with other relatives sketches of Napoleon's exploits, from the time he was le petit corporal until he became the dethroned emperor and every possible episode in the life of Napoleon the Third, concluding with a large engraving of the Chislehurst exile lying upon his pillow, the crafty, ambitious face still and calm in the solemnity of death. Then came a likeness or two of Eugénie in her exquisite beauty, and a row of portraits of the Prince Imperial, develop@ing from the somewhat plain,  to the intelligent, spirited, earnest face of the young soldier who fell among the Zulus but yesterday. Leaving the old woman, with her smiling face and trembling limbs, standing in her sunny porch surrounded by flowers in the quiet little court, and emerging into the noisy street, we seemed to return, with an effort, from the romance of the old empire to the prose of modern life. Another little property, formerly belong@ing to the Buonapartes, lies at the end of the Cours Grandval, beyond the hotel. Here is the Grotte de Napoleon, a little natural arbour or open cave formed by granite boulders and shaded by ilex, where the boy Napoleon used to study his lessons, or arrange his mimic campaigns with his companions. It was formerly in the midst of a sheltered garden, but a road now runs close beside it and this publicity destroys much of its romance. The road, a new, as it is a rough and steep one, ascends for several miles, show@ing a pretty bird's eye view of the  by degrees revealing a panorama of distant mountains in every direction, stand@ing in purple and snowy circles round the greener, smaller hills. It is a beautiful drive and nothing can well be more refreshing than to wind slowly up the steep road, as we did on a breath@lessly hot day, out of the quivering heat of Ajaccio, into the vast open hill scenery and gradually freshening atmosphere. Gardens, full of shady groves and tall fan palms, line the way, occasionally marred by the de@fective proportions of a family tomb. Every road round Ajaccio, and, indeed, round any considerable Corsican town, is full of these family tombs, placed in private grounds beside the highway sometimes, but rarely, picturesque in architecture and embosomed in shade but, more generally, square and hideous, bearing, but for the iron cross on the roof, a greater resemblance to a bathing-machine than to aught else. There appear to be few churchyards in Corsica. Cemeteries there are, often beau@tifully placed among cypress groves upon the hill-side but the greater proportion  well-to-do inhabitants prefer to bury their dead in their own grounds. A little tomb or chapel is erected over the remains, generally large enough to hold eight or ten people and here, once a year, on the anniversary of the death, the family meet to hear Mass performed. This road, called @la route de Salario, from a fountain further on, bearing that name, was particularly unfortunate in the style and position of its numerous tombs. The least unsightly were the poorest. It was touching, here and there in a little wayside garden, to see, half hidden amongst overgrowing herbage or creeping flowers, a simple stone cross rising out of the ground to mark where lay the remains of the poor man or his child, whose days had been spent in the cottage close by, sur@rounded by that glorious amphitheatre of hills. Forde CHAPTER XVII. THE CHAPEL OF ST. ANTHONY. THERE are not many excursions round Ajaccio but the Chapelle de Saint Antoine, about seven miles off, is well worth a visit. The road winds for five or six miles among green hills and through ilex avenues to the base of the slope, where you are obliged to dismount and continue the rest of the way on foot. It is an exceedingly rutty and bad road, although tolerably flat, and we did well in providing ourselves with a little light open carriage, drawn by a pair of energetic ponies. In this vehicle we went jolting along, more often in the air than on the cushions, and getting decidedly more exercise than would be useful or agreeable to a winter invalid. On the way we passed two  prisons, for French male culprits. Our driver informed us, with what accuracy I am not certain, that only French prisoners are confined in Corsica, and that Corsican delinquents are sent to the Continent to work out their time. It was found that, with the facilities of the universal maquis, and the deeply rooted sympathies of their own countrymen and women, escape for these latter became too easy and too fre@quent in their own country. I fear, in that case, the poor Corsican has made a bad exchange. These Ajaccio pénitenciers have a very modified prison air, and are apparently much less stern in discipline than the Continental jails. One of them was placed high up, some distance from the road, upon the summit of a steep hill, where the prisoners must enjoy the purest of airs and the most beautiful of views. The other was close by the roadside. It was a large white building, with barred windows but, in other respects, with little of a prison look about it. Only a low wall and open gates divided it from  and handsome trees shaded the sur@rounding courtyard. It being Sunday when we passed, few of the men were at work and several were standing idly in the courtyard, with a strangely independent and comfortable air. A warder was certainly with them, but he had an unobtrusive manner, and appeared to be unarmed. The men were dressed in quiet brown suits, which, to a stranger's eye, had little of the convict cut and, but for the evil expression on some of the dark faces that scowled at us over the wall, it would have been difficult to realize the fact that these were robbers and murderers. Fresh from a visit to Portland, with its high stony walls, its enclosed and guarded outlets, and its separate small gangs, each with an athletic warder with ever-watchful eye and loaded gun, the contrast of this French-Corsican prison, with its open portals and happy-go-lucky air of nonchalance, struck me forcibly. Soon after passing the pénitencier, the carriage, with a final jolt, stopped at the foot of the green slope, and we got out  the narrow winding track, passing among macchie-covered sand-hills, and mounting steeply towards the rocks beyond. It was hot work, for there was no shade, and the sand burnt beneath our feet, and the rocks glowed before us but the cystus gave out a refreshing scent, and at every turn the grey walls grew taller and more rugged and imposing, as the green mounds in front cleared away. About half-way to the chapel, we fell in with some berg@ère women, bringing supplies to their lords upon the mountain side, from the town of Ajaccio. There were three of them, and they were certainly as rough and wild, and unfeminine-looking as the wives of the bergers are usually reported to be. They had@ flung down their bundles, and were lying on the banks of cystus, playing with a dirty pack of cards, with more merri@ment than refinement. They favoured us with a good deal of notice as we passed and, when No. 1 addressed a good-natured greet@ing to them, notwithstanding their scanty knowledge of the French language, were  to respond, and to pursue us with much chaff. A few more turns brought us to the foot of the splendid rocks, and to the wide open plain, on which stands the little chapel of St. Anthony. The chapel itself is a queer little building, dirty and unpretending, the size of a small cottage, and possessing the odour of a pig-sty, with only one window and a wooden door. Climbing on the step below this window and peering in, we saw a low, mean-looking room, with a few common wooden benches in it, and a small altar at the end, sur@mounted by an insignificant picture. An iron cross w@as placed on the west end of the little edifice, which otherwise might have been taken for a cow@-shed. Two or three hundred yards from the chapel, and just at the foot of the rocks, was a small cottage, uninviting and un@clean-looking but, saving for this, a grand solitude reigned over this most wild and picturesque spot. The plain, or rather valley for high hills mount guard on either side , runs  out towards the sea, which beats angrily at the foot of the cliffs which abruptly break its course. The rocks facing the north are the grandest imaginable. Several hundred feet high, and composed of magnificent grey granite boulders, they rise, with jagged and serrated points, into the blue sky in two almost perpendicular ridges. Maquis clings to the lower crags and fir-trees to the higher, and little paths, made by the sheep, and steep as ladders, wind confusingly in and out among hollowed and grotesque rocks. Round about the cottage were two or three little gardens, fenced in with wattles to a height of six feet, to keep out the destructive goats, and giving the appearance of African kraals. Nos. 1 and 3 were still sketching the little chapel, and No. 2 sitting upon a furze bush in silent reflection, when our card-playing friends reappeared round the corner of the sand-hills. Laying down their bur@dens on a knoll close beside the chapel, they proceeded to put their fingers  and give a series of shrill whistles, which echoed among the rocks. The call was soon answered from the heights, and presently, bounding down the steep hill-side, came three of the wildest and roughest human animals of the male species it is possible to picture. There was little doubt about the purpose of their meeting, as men and women reclined upon the grassy bank, and set to, with hearty good will, at their al fresco repast, cracking noisy jokes, and retailing rapid gossip to each other. They were rather a cut-throat looking party and when, half an hour afterwards, No. 1, who had departed a little distance for another sketch, could not be found for some minutes, a horrid qualm, having reference to brigands, vendetta knives, and deep gorges, came over Nos. 2 and 3 with unpleasant force. Notwithstanding the heat of the day, and the steepness of the paths, Nos. 2 and 3 determined to scale part of the rocky walls. An old man, seated in a little enclosure, like a spider in his web, and  to the cottage @hard by, had apparently some insuperable objection to this proceeding, and rather startled the weak nerves of No. 3, already a little upset, by shouting after the pair in an undis@tinguishable patois jargon, and following them for some little distance. Their legs were younger than his, however and as he got worsted in the chase the equanimity of No. 3 was restored. This part of the country is said to be a favourite resort of the bandits, special advantages being offered, in the inaccessible rocks and hollow caverns, to the hardy fugitive from the law. Some of the boulders are so entirely hollowed out as to resemble an egg-shell or a woman's hood. They must have been filled formerly with a softer substance, which, by degrees, has been worn away by rain and frost, leaving the harder coating of granite, sometimes only an inch or two thick. As we mounted slowly up the little rocky winding path, pushing our way through thick growing shrubs, and hid from  at every turn, one felt that nothing could well be more appropriate to the scene than the appearance, from behind any boulder, or at the entrance of any of these stony egg-shells, of a black-bearded, eagle-eyed man, gun in hand and pistol in belt. A bandit seemed the natural appendage of such surroundings but he appeared not. Nothing was to be seen except sky, and rock, and hill, as we gained the summit of the first ledge, and, wiping our fevered brows, sat down to rest whilst far, far below, almost out of sight, fled and tumbled a little stream, gurgling away to the plain with a cool, inviting murmur and from enormous distances echoed the wild calls of shepherd boys and men, far apart and far away among the rocks, sounding weird and unlike anything human across the stillness and the wide solitude. Hurrying down again after a short rest, to see if No. 1 had, during our two hours' absence, fallen into a chasm or been kid@napped by bandits, we found her somewhat nervous at our lengthened stay, but other@wise uninjured, surrounded by a group  wild-looking maidens and children, whom she had arrested in their work of gathering sticks among the maquis, and was hastily transferring with skilful pencil to her sketc@h-book. These barefooted, picturesque girls evi@dently came from some shepherd hut buried amongst the rocky wilds around. They were an amusing mixture of shyness and merriment. At first, pulling their white handkerchiefs well over their sunburnt faces, they turned away giggling, silently refusing to be pourtrayed, without however the least understanding what the process was but presently, becoming bolder, they consented to turn their faces towards us and make some effort at standing still. They could not, of course, speak a word of French, and their patois was so strong that they could not even understand No. 1's grammatical Italian, nor make their answers compre@hensible to her. When the portraits were finished and shown to them, being the first drawing they had ever seen, they could not for some time make out the meaning of the cabalistic marks but, when at last it  to them that these were intended to represent themselves, they laughed long and loudly. But, what with bandit caves and shepherd maidens, time slipped away rapidly and a glance at our watches suddenly showed us that it was now nearly five o'clock, dinner being at six and we began a hasty retreat to the carriage, spurred on, over the sandy, rutty path, by the mundane reflection, that, unless we could do our seven miles in some@thing like an hour, we stood a chance of going to bed supperless.@@@@  XVIII. LES ILES SANGUINAIRES. ANOTHER pleasant excursion and drive from Ajaccio is to the lies Sanguinaires, about nine miles' distance. A good bye-road @has been made to this place, flat and sandy, and following t@he edge of the Mediterranean the whole way. The islands lie to the south-west of the town, and probably owe their title to their dangerous position. St. Nicodemus appears, for some reason certainly not, one would think, from the natural timidity and vacillation of his cha@racter, so foreign to theirs , to be a favourite amongst the Corsicans for here again, just outside the town, upon the sea-shore itself, we found a little tabernacle, about six feet high, erected to his memory. It was open in front, with a wire covering, and  figures, one apparently representing a dead person, being supported on the knees of the other, probably intended for our Lord and the Saint. For two or three miles outside Ajaccio, the road, on the land side, was bordered without intermission with a succession of little green enclosures, each containing a small square building placed in the centre. These are the tombs of all the principal families of Ajaccio. They differ in size and in shape, but all have an iron cross upon the roof, and almost all are ugly. This was not the case everywhere. At Sartene I saw some pretty and picturesque tombs but none here. As we left the tombs behind us, steep hills began to rise from the road, some green with maquis, and some clothed in grey rocks, where however the asphodel and the universal cystus clung with a loving tenacity here and there. The prickly pear, too, which loves the very edge of the sea, and abounds near Bastia and Ajaccio, grew in thick rough hedges along the roadside, covered with  little reddish pear-like fruit, which was beginning to ripen. This fruit is much eaten by the poorer Corsicans, who say it is very pleasant. It is ripe about July and as nearly every hill and sandy wayside near the coast is more or less covered with the uncouth-looking tropical plant, its fruit must be a great boon to the very poor, and to the passing wayfarer. We reached the lies Sanguinaires in a little more than an hour and a half and, drawing up, the driver immediately turned the horses across the road, and flung him@self, face downwards, upon the grass in the sun to sleep, whilst we wandered on to the promontory before us. It is a high conical hill, joined to the mainland and road by only a narrow strip of land, and looks, at a little distance, like another island. On its summit is a Genoese round watch-tower, very little ruined. The entrance if ever there was one to this tower is now choked up by sand and soil and pebbles and the one square window is about eight feet from the ground, so we could not peep inside but the  us the massive proportions, more than a yard thick, which, in company with so many others in the island, have stood on their stormy eminence facing two seas, and defying the attacks of winds and foul weathers as well as foes. The hill was almost covered with a beautiful, mauve-coloured, low-growing flower, something like @an English stock, and of a star shape, with @a white centre. Between the shrubs, too, and upon the grass and flowers, lay scattered hundreds of lovely echinae, three or four inches in diameter, with spikes an inch long of a rich purple, crimson, or brown. They were all broken in half, and tenantless but not otherwise injured by the violence of the wind which blew them up to this grassy height. The islands, three principal ones, and some lesser, lay scattered out to sea beyond the hill the nearest perhaps not more than a quarter of a mile off and, between them and the mainland, ran a fierce current. They were very picturesque, as they lay, one behind the other, each with its warning lighthouse perched on its rocky  largest was several miles in length, and had soft green patches mingling with the cold grey of its granite walls. But, even to-day, under a cloudless blue sky and calm still atmosphere, the white surf beat against the steep sides and, as the sun sank lower towards the horizon, a blood-red hue crept over the rough, jagged island heads, which suggested another and more literal meaning for their appellation of the Bloody Islands.  XIX. JOURS DE FÊTE AT AJACCIO. THE 10th, 11th, and 12th of May were grand days at Ajaccio regattas going on the first two days, and horse races on the third. For some days beforehand prepara@tions were being made, triumphal arches put up, and posts hung with Chinese lanterns. For once, the Corsican natives seemed to wake up, and an unwonted number of men were to be seen, in their excitement standing upright, instead of lounging before their doors or lying asleep upon the quay. Saturday, the first day of the regatta, was rather a failure, owing to the weather. It was a gloomy chilly day, raining a good deal in the morning. In the afternoon, however, it cleared up partially, and we strolled out under a  towards the harbour. The Agincourt lay in the offing, sent by the English Government as a compliment to the French and also a large American vessel, as well as some handsome steamers. Leaving the crowd upon the quay, we climbed out upon the masses of great white stone, which just now constitute the remains of the pier. It shows the force of the waves, even here in this sheltered corner of the bay, that, a few months ago, during a sudden storm, these enormous masses were broken up and thrown one upon another by the furious waters, like wooden blocks heaped up by a child. It was exciting work climbing upon these blocks, and looking down upon the bright emerald water and white surface rolling under our feet, or playing at catch-me-who-can with the advancing and retreating waves but, as far as the regatta went, the scene was as dull and unenlivening as possible and two or three sailing vessels appeared to represent the competitors. Half an hour of this was quite sufficient, and we returned to our hotel, feeling  regattas were just as much@ a slow and stupid pastime as they usually are in England. The next day's proceedings, however, were much livelier. We did not care to see more of the marine amusements, so, after morning church, spent the afternoon in a lovely drive, reserving the evening for dissipation. At this time of the year the season is over, and the pretty little English church, raised during the last few years through the personal energy and generosity of a Scotch lady, is usually closed. This it had been for two or three Sundays before our arrival, since the chaplain had departed but this Sunday we had the unusual good fortune of a choice between two services-one on board the Agincourt, to which the officers kindly invited us, and one in the little church itself. With a strong desire to attend both at the same time, we finally decided on the church at our gates, feeling it a duty not to lessen the small congregation expected there, and perhaps a little comforted by  swell that reigned in the bay, and which might possibly affect the deck of the Agincourt. So we made three of the little congrega@tion of fifteen, where the chaplain of the winter before last who happened to be on a visit read prayers and Dr. Prothero, queen's preacher on board a yacht in the harbour , preached a beautiful sermon on the text, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing. We were not even devoid of music, owing to the kind offer of a young Englishman stopping at the hotel, whose harmonium strains we all followed to the best of our fifteen abilities. Dinner was a very merry one in the hotel that evening. About eight of the Agincourt officers, accompanied by a noble colley dog, joined our small party, and added a good deal to our sociability. In honour of them we had quite a genteel spread, and generous allowance of nuts and oranges, some of which served to seduce the Ajaccio street gamins, peering curiously in at the open window, into a condition of  resulted in the well-merited reproof of cold pig, administered unseen from an upper window-and in their consequent flight. The whole town was en fete to-night, and at eight o'clock we went out to see the fun. Fun it certainly was the entire population out and enjoying itself noisily but, apparently, no one rough or tipsy or disorderly. Most of the principal buildings were illuminated whilst the town presented quite a fairy-like appearance. Down all the principal streets, there was a con@tinuous succession of large Chinese lanterns, hung from posts about eight feet high and nothing could well have been prettier than this uninterrupted line of hundreds of golden balls, scarcely swaying in the still evening air. The Hotel de Ville, close by the quay, appeared to be the centre of excitement, and here a thousand or two of people, chiefly men, shouted and hurrahed, jostling each other good-humouredly, and without fear of  was pleasant for once to see the popular apathy in abeyance. The light which streamed from the illu@minations on the houses round lit up the large open square with its seething mass of humanity into picturesque groups, showing here a black velveteened Corsican with a white kerchiefed companion, there a French soldier in bright uniform, and, further on, two grinning, good-tempered British tars, as shiningly clean and as much at their ease as they have a habit of looking all over the globe. A little higher up, it fell, with a fainter radiance, upon Napoleon's grave features in the Place du Marché, turning the numerous fountain jets around him into rainbow arches of fairy-like tracery. We had not been long on the quay before the shouting redoubled, and the crowd, falling back with some difficulty, made room for a procession to pass out from the Hotel de Ville. A tremendous tattoo was heard, and out came a band with a prodigious number of drums, every one of which was  itself to the fullest extent of its parch@ment lungs. It was preceded by a large flag, vociferously applauded, and which, doubtless, was the national flag, and fol@lowed by a troop of soldiers bearing aloft Chinese lanterns or flaming torches fastened upon poles. Forming upon the Place outside, they started off on the tour of the town, followed by most of the populace and the great square became deserted. For the next hour it was very pretty to see them, as, at some break in the streets or sudden turn, the golden lamps and torches came into sight in the distance, winding in and out, and moving slowly on, followed by the roll of drums and the shouting crowds. Meanwhile, we strolled up and down the quay, close beside the edge of the water, waiting for the electric light which had been promised from the deck of the Agin@court, and which was our national quota contributed to the night's amusement. All afternoon the English nation had been doing the civil in honour of the occa@sion, which was said to be the first  a British man-of-war had appeared upon the Corsican coasts out of compli@ment, and not for business. Tribes of residents had visited the ship, and been introduced to the captain's cabin, where fraternity had been sworn between French and English, and sealed with champagne. It was a beautiful evening for the electric light calm and still, and so dark, that it was with some difficulty we managed to escape falling over the unprotected sides of the quay, and thus meeting a watery grave. At first it burnt simply as a bright star upon the deck of the Agincourt then, moving swiftly round, it turned a stream of light, clearer than day, upon the distant horizon, lighting up sailing boats upon the far-off line then again, piercing the utter darkness to one side, it suddenly brought a fishing smack, at anchor in the harbour a furlong or so off, into closest contiguity, showing every rope upon its yards, every man on deck, in clearest detail. Then, with mysterious, stealthy move@ment, flitting on, it turned abruptly towards the quay, and a shout of delight broke  spectators, as the houses round shone in the glare of day, and the faces of the crowd stood out for a few minutes in un@natural clearness. There was something appallingly, horribly perfect about the management of the light and one felt almost sorry for the foe whose little night manoeuvres would be rendered entirely hopeless by such an invention. The light played about for more than an hour, and then faded slowly away and we returned to our hotel while still the crowds were shouting and amusing themselves, but with some of the hanging lanterns already beginning to take fire in the deserted Cours Grandval, and drop unnoticed on to the darkening pathway. The next day, Monday, this same Cours was to be the scene of another wild excite@ment. The horse races are always held up this road, which is hard and not too good, and terminates in a steep hill. Every evening, about six o'clock, for some weeks, the practising for these races had been going on and consisted  four or five raw-boned horses with long striding paces, ridden by rather ragged jockeys, sans saddle, and with reins held well up in the air. This did not promise great things for the eventful day but perhaps the races turned out better than appearances warranted. We saw nothing of them for, after a breakfast at 6 a.m., and a farewell to a dear canine friend called Chivey, we started off that very morning for a week's tour to the forest of Bavella. Forde CHAPTER XX. A RAW LUNCH. IT was a lovely sunny morning when we three, in high spirits, set out on our expe@dition to the forest of Bavella, and the south of the island. Our open carriage was exceedingly com@fortable, with a hood in case of bad weather the bay horses went well, and the coachman appeared irreproachable. There is no feeling in the world so exhila@rating and delicious as that experienced in starting off on a Bohemian tour, with@out luggage, without responsibilities, un@hampered by fear of railway time-tables or the care of boxes, dawdling or hurrying at will, starting at what hour one pleases, and out all day in the fresh mountain air, with al fresco meals and a turf siesta. It is  life, robbed of its discomforts, but not of its primitive ease and romance. As we rolled round the circular bay, and up t@he winding ascent on the further side, the water sparkled calmly in the glassy mist of morning sunshine, and the Agincourt lay with deserted deck, like a painted ship upon a painted ocean. But the road leading to the town was already all astir with country people coming in for the races and, further on, higher up the hill, as the pretty white houses of Ajaccio on their spit of land grew less and less distinct against the blue Mediterranean, we met with more and more of these. Men and women, all on muleback, and all seated astride-sometimes two men, or a woman and boy on one animal-the men with their gun behind their shoulder, and their red gourd slung by their side,-were driving strings of cows, horses, and foals before them, for the fair which was to be held that morning prior to the races. All the men lifted their caps politely but some of the animals objected strongly to us and our carriage, and could scarcely be got to pass  soon passed away from the sea-coast and the sea views, and entered the inland country, among green hills, and past a broad river, with blue and snow-streaked mountains rising up before us. Presently approaching the village of Cauro or Cavro, where we changed horses, the mountain of Bastelica stood out in un@rivalled grandeur of white cone above us and as we slowly ascended the steep road in the exquisite freshness of morning, the birds sang loudly and continuously from the banks of white cystus which covered the lower parts of the wooded slopes lining the road. Though so early, it was almost too hot to walk and when we reached Cauro, the horses were in a bath of perspiration. From Ajaccio to Cauro and Bastelica is a favourite excursion but it is a very long and fatiguing one for one day, and Cauro does not look a tempting place for a night's rest. As we left Cauro and continued our steep ascent, the mountains grew grander, and the trees increased. Maquis of the  sort followed the roadside, and the air was laden with the strong scent of the tall Mediterranean heath, which fought with arbutus and cystus for the foremost place, whilst cyclamen, golden bloom, and hellebore clustered at their feet. Here we met some women whose costume astonished us considerably. Their white handkerchiefs were closely wrapped about their faces as w@ell as heads, in Mohammedan fashion, covering up all their features, and leaving only the eyes visible. They appeared to be on their way to Ajaccio, and were driving a few cows before them but it seemed more than probable that they would be suffocated with heat before they got there. On one other occasion, in the region of Bastia, w@e met with some more women dressed after the same uncomfortable fashion, but failed to discover its meaning. Up on the summit of the Col, overlooking lovely views, w@as a most filthy, picturesque village. Queer little balconies surrounded half-ruined but inhabited houses, @which were approached from the sloping hill-side by broken-down wooden  about in front of one of them, was a dignified and majestic-looking goat, enormously large, as are many of the Cor@sican goats, and of a peculiar piebald-pure white up to the shoulders, and jet black over head and neck. He seemed to hold the porcine and canine companions who, with him, had evidently the right of entry into most of the houses in supreme con@tempt and it was a marvel to me how he had preserved the cleanly whiteness of his long hair-for the small specimens of ragged humanity who sat upon the dung-heaps close by, or swarmed noisily after the carriage, were so encrusted with dirt as to leave their original colour a matter of speculation. But we did not pause long in this un@savoury village. We were soon through its one little street, dashing down-through green hills, and by falling streams with trees overhead, with a succession of exquisite mountain ranges, one layer behind the other, lying before us-to the cleaner village of Grosseto. From Grosseto to Bechisano-a  some size, where we were to make the mid-day halt-the views were most lovely. For miles we wound above a verdant gorge, grassy broken hills on either side, and grey moss-covered rocky cliffs rising immediately beneath us from the bed of a foaming boulder-strewn river, sometimes hidden by the bending trees which caressed its rapid stream. From the pretty stone bridge of two uneven arches which presently spanned this river, a beautiful view was obtained of winding waters, green tufted rocks and background of jagged blue mountain tops. Every turn was a richer study for an artist, and Nos. 1 and 3 lived in a constant frenzy of effort to secure a sketch, under the un@favourable conditions of a rapidly descending carriage, and two minutes of time allowed. The irritation became a little less when once more we commenced ascending towards Bechisano but the sky was now growing heavy and ominous with dark blue clouds, and the shade cast over us by a great hill-covered from top to bottom with ilex-trees, some hoary and grey with age, but for  part shining in their rich young green with golden shoots-was no longer welcome, but depressing and gloomy. Close to Bechisano, and exactly as we reached the summit of the Col San Georgio, the storm burst upon us. It had been raining more and more heavily for some time, when suddenly, without a previous rumble of any kind, came a vivid flash of lightning that blinded us, accompanied instantaneously by a crash of thunder like the firing of artillery. After that storm, I never felt a moment's suspicion of Corsican horses. We were creeping up the hill, the driver walking beside them and although he put out his hand and silently clutched the reins, the jump they gave was almost imper@ceptible. As for him, he never turned a hair, but continued his silent reflective walk with the same equanimity, whilst the lightning flashed about him playfully, and spouts of rain poured down from his wide-awake hat. The next hour was spent in a vain endeavour to keep out the driving  which made all nature a blurred blot around us and when we got out at Bechisano our feet were in a pool an inch or two deep, and our shawls made running streams over the floor of the dirty little inn. This inn was a wretched welcome, even for travellers so drowned and depressed as we were. There was a better one about half a mile further on, at the other end of the village but, through some mistake, for which he afterwards deeply reproached him@self, our driver halted here. The little broken glass door led into two very small rooms, one opening out of the other, both stone floored with one or two apologies for chairs, and a greasy table in the first room. This apartment had no fireplace so necessity forced us to take refuge in the inner one, where a few sticks burnt upon the hearth, and where the family of four or five men and women, a dog, and a due proportion of babies, were huddled together, but they politely endeavoured to make room for us and our steaming garments. It was difficult not to stumble over the smaller fry, as the tiny room appeared  no window, and was only partially lit up by gleams from t@he wood fire. Logs, however, were piled up for our benefit and as we made a feeble effort to dry our soaked feet, a cheerful maiden pre@pared our mid-day meal in the next room. The floor of this room was in such a condition, that, when we entered and took our places beside the round table, we kept our eyes carefully turned heavenward, for fear of losing our appetites. We need not have feared, however, for there was nothing to eat. Raw ham, with a steel fork sticking in it, was first offered to us and when we declined that, then raw fish, and afterwards some third dish, likewise raw, of what nature I forget. We were hungry, and began to be desperate. Could nothing cooked be had? in@quired No. 3. For the English do not eat their food uncooked. The woman looked amazed and perplexed. Mais non ? she asked, incredulously, as we pushed away the unpalatable dishes. But our relief was great when it turned out that the inn boasted a small leg  which could at once be got ready for us. This was done by placing the meat upon a charred log, with a dish beneath, and dropping lard upon it. When roasted, it was more like a rabbit leg than a mutton leg, but was not bad, and, together with a very good omelette, soon disappeared, to the relief of our famine. There are but two things which it is safe to order for lunch in these third-rate Corsican inns, and which are invariably eatable and good-omelette and broccia. One of the queerest anomalies in Corsica are the perfectly clean dinner napkins, with which you are invariably supplied in the poorest inns and which contrast with the total absence of tea-spoons and saucers at breakfast, and the appearance of the dirty two-pronged forks at dinner. The old man, to whom the establishment belonged, assisted at our lunch, and was delighted to air his French, which, like his daughter's, seemed to consist of a capacity of saying half a dozen words, and not under@standing one. Conversation, under these  the most polite intentions, became somewhat embarrassing and pleasing diver@sions were caused by the entrance of a blind man, led in to the fireside in the inner room, and the occasional onslaughts made by mine host upon the juvenile inquirers, who, regardless of the pouring rain, pressed their wet noses persistently against the panes of the glass door, to obtain a glimpse of the Inglese. They had their reward when, shortly afterwards, the carriage came round again, and we packed ourselves in, amid an admiring crowd. It was still raining, but not so heavily, and there was no possibility of a recurrence of the pond beneath our feet, as our driver had bored three little holes in the flooring of the carriage to act as drainers. From Bechisano to Propriano, a drive of about four hours, the road is one continual descent through steep rocky hills of pic@turesque form some covered with shrubs, and some with trees, and often overhanging the road as it winds by the edge of the  far from Bec@hisano we passed a great boulder, hanging over the road and supported by two or three tiny ones, re@minding one of a huge cromlech. Near to it spread a many-tongued waterfall, spanned by a stone bridge, from under which it poured its heavy volume of water into the gorge beneath. Ilex and great hedges of Mediterranean heath grew by the roadside and, as we approached the large village of Olmeto, and the hills opened out a little, a superb pano@rama of mountains rose behind us. Olmeto is a gloomy-looking village, perched half-way up the mountain side ascending from before Propriano. It has something forbidding about its-aspect, and gave one a shudder as one passed through. The houses are filthy, and many of them lie in untouched ruins, with here and there a half-broken balcony, and, much more rarely, an unbroken window and the men who stand and slouch at the street corners have a dark, inhospitable,, hang-dog look about them, which is no improvement upon the usual  half contemptuous, half good-natured, of lethargic pride. Olmeto and the neighbouring village of Olio have both an exceedingly bad reputa@tion. The men out-Herod Herod in idleness, even for Corsicans and nearly every man carries his gun and pistol, even to patrol the village street. Two or three murders occur every year in Olmeto alone and the only wonder is that the number is not greater. The vendetta is of course very strong at Olmeto and altogether, it must be an uncomfortable place to live in. No women at all were visible in the@, village, either on our passing through it on our way to Propriano or on our return some days later the presumption being, that the weaker but wiser sex were, Corsican fashion, making up in some degree for the dangerous idleness of their lords by their own house@hold industry. Coming back to Ajaccio by this same route, our driver pointed out to me, near the Col San Georgio, about half-way  and Olmeto, a little maquis-covered @hill by the lonely roadside. There, he said, among the thick shrubs, about a year ago, a man concealed himself to lay wait for a passing gendarme. This man's father had been a bandit, whom, in the performance of his duty, years ago, the gendarme had shot. Upon the bandit's death, his son had taken to the hills, vowing vengeance upon his father's murderer. For years he had waited patiently for his victim, until this day, when he knew he must pass by alone. Shot after shot pursued the gendarme from his hidden foe, until at length one pierced his neck, and laid him stiff upon the grass, where his dead body was found some time afterwards by a passer-by. Tombs were scattered along the roadside beyond Olmeto here and there and an avenue of young trees was planted for some way down the descent. The mountains were magnificent and before us rose a peculiar, high, conical hill, rearing itself abruptly from the gorge, surmounted by@ which bore the most extraordinary likeness to a ruined castle. Peeps of blue sea shone out at our feet as we went lower and lower and pre@sently, turning a corner, the full wide sweep of the Gulf of Valinco, glittering in evening sunshine, opened out before us. Heavy white surf lined the red shore, and five or six good-sized charcoal vessels, trading to Italy, lay in the harbour. Propriano gleamed white and pretty just above the sea, surrounded by its many little bays, as we dashed down the hill-side, through green country lanes, lined by wide hedges of brilliant purple vetch and ponder@ous prickly pear. Then, reaching the plain, we wound round the boggy, sandy shore, and mounted into the little narrow street of Propriano, full of shouting children and grunting pigs, up to the door of the Hotel de France. Very grand was the title of our inn, but not so grand its exterior, nor the dirty little staircase and ground floor. The upper storey, however, showed us a clean, airy, cheerful salle a manger, into which  little bedrooms of inviting appearance, and apparently irreproachable cleanliness. The muslin window curtains were crisp and new, the floors were swept, and the blankets, as well as the sheets, bore inspec@tion. The washing basins, too, were much beyond the usual regulation size of a soup plate. Whilst the good and cheap dinner was preparing, Nos. 2 and 3 took a turn up the little town, and scrambled out upon the sea-shore. A lovely blood-red sunset showed off to advantage the purple range of hills opposite, -with the Genoese tower at their farthest point, and cast deep shadows over the Col San Georgio, with its sparkling snow neighbours, and Olmeto lying on its flanks in sullen twilight. But it was impossible to enjoy any view with a pursuing crowd of yelling, mocking children at one's heels and the usual scourge cut short our walk.orde CHAPTER XXI. BERGERS AND GAMINS. THE next morning was showery, but not devoid of sun and, leaving No. 1 to rest in the hotel, Nos. 2 and 3 set out early for a country walk. Our first object was to escape our juvenile foes our second to get upon the sea-shore, which, @we had heard, was covered with beautiful shells. We managed it being school time, and so a portion of the little savages out of the way to effect the first but the second was not so easy of attain@ment as it sounded. Everywhere, except just beneath the town, the shore was surrounded by a ridge of sand-hills, divided from the sea by broad, boggy plains. The rain that had fallen the last  made us sink in over the tops of our boots when we attempted to cross these bogs. So, for some distance, we continued skirting the sand-hills, and following a little path, which presently led to a small running stream. As we were preparing to make our leap over this, a voice suddenly arrested us. What ! You don't know the country-you ? You two women must not go alone among the hills ! Looking up, we saw a young woman standing in the stream before us, arms akimbo, and contemplating us with dis@approving curiosity. Her face was brown and pretty, with the brightest of coal-black eyes and white teeth her petticoats were pinned up above her knees, and, with her shapely arms covered with soap@suds, and her brown legs planted firmly in the rapid stream, she presented an artistic appearance well worthy of the brush of a Faed or a Nicol. Thee was something audacious and determined, and yet straight@forward, about the young woman's address and appearance, which impressed us  not ? we asked. But why ! she retorted, peremptorily. Do you know the country, then ? But of course you do not. Any one can see that you are strangers ! Yes, we admitted, we are strangers. But what then ? Ah, well ! If you knew the country, you two would not dream of going about like this by yourselves. But why not ? we persisted, vaguely impressed by our companion's manner. Every one is good to us in Corsica. What will harm us ? What is there to frighten us ? The young woman spread out her hands in amazement at our obstinacy. What ? Well -with a shrug- des chiens, et des bergers ! Later on, we learnt to regard this threat of bergers in somewhat the same light as the Saracen babies did that of Ri@chard Coeur de Lion, according to tradition but at present we had scarcely imbibed that morbid and not very well-founded dread, and the response of our black-eyed  not inspire the terror she seemed to expect in our breasts. For a moment or two we debated, and then, thanking the young woman for her kindly meant advice, we sprang over the stream and passed on, leaving her standing staring after us with all her black eyes, her hands still clasping her supple waist. We had no reason to repent our resolution, as we wandered amongst the sand-hills, wind@ing down a little overgrown path which seemed to lead to a further bay. Anything like the flowers which, for a mile or so of our way, covered the hillocks around us, I never saw or dreamt of before. People talk of the beauties of rock and mountain scenery in Corsica, and the wild grandeur of its wide forests but, to my mind, the distinguishing beauty of Corsica lies in its flowers. Switzerland and Italy boast their rocks and mountains, and colder lands their forests but neither Switzerland nor Italy, nor, I believe, any other country in Europe, can attempt to rival the flowers of Corsica in richness of colouring and luxuriance of  as we worked our way through interlacing shrubs, on each side of us stretched a sea of blossoms, completely hiding from sight both stalks and green leaves. Sheets of pink and white cystus, brilliant purple vetch everywhere scrambling over them, scarlet, crimson, and pink poppies, blue borage, Michaelmas daisies, cyclamen, and what in England we call the garden sweet-pea, together with a host of other gorgeous floral dainties, massed and tangled themselves together in a blaze of beauty. We had walked about three miles when a muddy bog brought us to a sudden stop. The bay still lay some distance from us, and we now saw that a tolerably wide river ran across the plain between it and us so we turned back, sadder and wiser, baulked once more, but with our hands full of lovely flowers. Not a creature did we see on this dan@gerous route, except one very ragged boy who was tearing madly after a herd of cows on the boggy plain beneath but here and there, in the distance, were  or mud hovels, belonging, no doubt, to the dreaded bergers of whom we had been warned. These shepherds, scattered all over the country, among the hills and lonely pastures, are, according to all ac@counts, a very rough lot. They live almost like wild beasts, and appear to be half savage. Their miserable hovels are generally with@out window or chimney, and utterly desti@tute of furniture, even sometimes of any approach to a bed, or any cooking utensil. Their clothes are in rags, and their food consists chiefly of the milk, cheese, and mutton they obtain from their flocks, with the addition of sour bread. Their wives are as wild and uncivilized as themselves they know little or nothing of religion, and their children grow up utterly ignorant and un@educated. I never heard of their robbing strangers but their rough lawlessness makes the more civilized village women afraid to go amongst them. Returning to the village, we determined to brave one of the boggy  along by the side of a hillock, managed at last to reach the sea-shore without much damage. The rocks, scattered about the little bay on which we entered, completely sheltered us from the village, and looked picturesquely black with the clear white foam dashing over them in the occasional gleams of a stormy sun. Re@gardless of the great blue-black curtain darkening the hills before us and spreading over half the sky, we flung ourselves, face downwards, upon the sands, and commenced an energetic search for shells. The shore here was simply covered with them some small, some large, but all of them lovely especially the large Venus' ear, or Haliotis Tuberculata, with bright mother-of-pearl lining. A brilliant flash and loud thunder-clap roused us from our interesting occupation and, together with heavy rain, put an end to the shell-gathering of No. 3, who fled ignominiously homewards, leaving No. 2 still reclining in dignified persistency, re@gardless of storm and rain, under the lower@ing sky. It is a very great mistake to  billycock hat and a light-coloured ulster in Corsica. They were the cause of much persecution to poor No. 3. When she reached the hotel, she was dripping from head to foot, and a lively thunder-storm was raging but this was not cause sufficient to depress the energy of the infant islander, who now, alas ! let forth from school , with many a hoot and yell of triumph, pursued both her and No. 2 @-who arrived in the same condition ten minutes later-not only to the door of the hotel, but half-way up the stone staircase. I never felt safe on these occasions until I had entered into my bedroom and locked the door as the bolder part of the troop sometimes came to the very door of the sitting-room upstairs and I always felt an affinity with the poor fox pursued by his yelping pack of tormentors. At length, emerging heated and indig@nant from my retirement, Why, asked I, of the broad, good-humoured landlady, who, with Italian head-gear and voluble tongue, had just come upstairs, dispersing the juveniles on her way- Why are  children such fiends, and how do they ever manage to grow up into such respectable, civil men and women ? Ah, mademoiselle, said she, you must forgive them they are very rude but, voilà, they take you for men ! At least, they say you are women dressed up in men's clothes. I heard them calling it out on the stairs, she continued. One says, '@The tall one is a man ! ' and the other says, '@They are both men. Don't you see they have both men's hats, and men's cloaks, and black pantaloons ? ' Alas for English fashions of 1879 ! Ulsters, wideawakes, and tight black dresses suited the spring climate of Corsica uncom@monly well but not equally well the tastes of the inhabitants. END OF VOL. 
 the future's thine, the present his ! 'shine's the more hard and noble bliss Best apprehender of our joys, which hast So long a reach, and yet canst hold so fast@! Hope, thou sad lover's only friend ! Thou way, that mayst dispute it with the end ! For love I fear's a fruit that does delight The taste itself less than the smell and sight.@@ Fruition more deceitful is Than thou canst be when thou dost miss Men leave thee by obtaining, and straight flee Some other way again to thee And that's a pleasant country, without doubt, To which all soon return that travel out. -Cowley. CLXVI. DEATH'S FINAL CONQUEST. The glories of our blood and state Are shadows, not substantial things There is no armour against fate Death lays his icy hand on kings Sceptre and crown Must tumble down, And in the dust be equal made With the poor crooked scythe and spade. Some men with swords may reap the field, And plant fresh laurels where they kill But their strong nerves at last must yield, They tame but one another still Early or late, They stoop to  The Contention of Aj@ax and Ulysses, a Masque, 1659. ' The fine song which old Bowman used to sing to King Charles and which he often sung to me.'@-@Oldy
 -@H. P. SUCH, Machine Printer and @@Publisher, 177,  to his dangerous labour, His bottle and bag round his neck he doth hang, And calls on his next door neighbour. His wife and his children he kiss'd them in bed, And bade them a hearty good morninging Be careful, dear husband, the wife often said, And what time will you be returning ? @@There, look to our children, the miner replied, The hour is uncertain for returning, To work I must go to earn you some bread,@@@@ I may stay in the pit till the morning.@@ @@@@@With their picks, drills and scrapers, they descend the deep shaft, With their lamps dimly burning, Thro' the dark bowels of the earth, and the place of his birth,@@ And to wait for the fireman returning. @@@@All right, says the fireman, the miner goes in@@, And strips off his clothes to his breeches The pick he doth swing, and the miner doth sing, As he shoots the black coal down in pieces@@@. Then a hole he will drill, some shot he'll put in. Which shoots a thrill into his neighbour,@@ But get pure air into the place of his birth,h, And make ease to the poor miner's labour.@@ At seven in the morning the work they begin, @@The miners are soon in full working,@@ Some picking, some drilling, some blasting the rocks, @@And others the waggons are filling. The jig flies with speed, down the steep road, The horse to the shaft it will take them, They're put in the cage, and with a loud knock, A lift with the engine will take them. Then look to the danger the miner is in, As he hangs in the air night and morning, The rope it may break, he in pieces be dashed, And his wife left at home in great mourning. An accident of gas sometimes will take place, That gives the poor miner no warning, A fall from the roof sometimes causes death, And his children his absence be mourning. Come all you coal miners who hear these few lines, Come look to the old and the feeble, The wife and the children you know they'll want bread, And to work you know they're not able. Some have dimbly limbs, some to darkness are doomed, Then stretch forth your hand like a brother, Trhrough the dark bowels of the earth where thou-sands meet death, It's our duty to help one anothe
 how from far upon the eastern road The star-led wizards haste with odours sweet Oh ! run, prevent them with thy humble ode, And lay it lowly at His blessed feet Have thou the honour first thy Lord to greet, And join thy voice unto the angel quire, From out His secret altar touched with hallowed fire. THE HYMN. It was the winter wild, While the Heaven-born Child All meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies, Nature in awe to Him Had doffed her gaudy trim, With her great Master so to sympathize It was no season then for her To wanton with the sun, her lusty paramour. Only with speeches fair, She wooes the gentle air To hide her guilty front with innocent snow. And on her naked shame, Pollute with sinful blame, The saintly veil of maiden white to throw Confounded, that her Maker's eyes Should look so near upon her foul deformities. But He, her fears to cease, Sent down the meek-eyed Peace She, crowned with olive green, came softly sliding Down through the turning sphere, His ready harbinger, With turtle wing the amorous clouds dividing, And, waving wide her myrtle wand, She strikes a universal peace through sea and land.
 him, that he had thought he had followed him in the chase but leauing at last this contention, the one posted vp to the King, while the others coasted vp and downe the Country to search for the Duke, who hauing kild his horse in trauelling, was most vnhappily mette on foot with faire Margaret, ere he could come to any towne, where he might for money haue another. But when he espyed his Keepers come to take him, he de-sired Margaret to make shift for herselfe, and to seeke to escape them. But she being of a contrary mind, said, she would liue and die with him. The Duke seeing himselfe ready to be surprized, drew out his sword, and said, he would buy his liberty with his life, before he would yeeld to be any more a prisoner and thereupon began a great fight betwixt them, inso-much that the Duke had killed two of them but him-selfe being sore wounded, and faint with ouermuch bleed-ing, at length fell downe, being not able any longer to stand and by this meanes the good Duke was taken with his faire loue, and both of them committed to prison. But in the meane space, when Grayes wife had missed her maide, and saw she was quite gone, she made great lamentation for her among her neighbours, for she loued her as dearly as any child that euer she bore of her owne body. O Margaret, quoth she what cause hadst thou thus to leaue me ? if thou didst mislike of any thing, why didst thou not tell me ? If thy wages 
 drove a-field, and both together heard What time the gray-fly winds her sultry horn, Battening our flocks with the fresh dews of night Oft till the star, that rose at evening bright, Toward heaven's descent had sloped his westering wheel. Meanwhile the rural ditties were not mute, Tempered to the oaten flute Rough Satyrs danced, and Fauns with cloven heel From the glad sound would not be absent long And old Damoetas loved to hear our song. But, oh the heavy change, now thou art gone, Now thou art gone, and never must return ! Thee, Shepherd, thee the woods, and desert caves With wild thyme and the gadding vine o'ergrown, And all their echoes, mourn The willows and the hazel copses green Shall now no more be seen Fanning their joyous leaves to thy soft lays. As killing as the canker to the rose, Or taint-worm to the weanling herds that graze, Or frost to flowers, that their gay wardrobe wear When first the white-thorn blows Such, Lycidas, thy loss to shepherd's ear. Where were ye, Nymphs, when the remorseless deep Closed o'er the head of your loved Lycidas ? For neither were ye playing on the steep Where your old bards, the famous Druids, lie, Nor on the shaggy top of Mona high, Nor yet where Deva spreads her wisard stream Ay me ! I fondly dream@-Had ye been there@-@for what could that have done ? What could the Muse herself, that Orpheus bore, The Muse herself, for her enchanting so
 out boughs covered with yellow blossoms to shelter lazy cattle from the heat of the sun. Ruined windmills stood on the tops of the highest knolls, where they were most exposed to the sweep of the trade-wind that, once upon a time, long ago, set their mighty arms whirling right merrily. These windmills were veritable giants in the good old slavery days, before steam-power, when sugar-estates paid their lucky owners princely incomes, instead of only beggarly interest on capital as is the case nowadays for in the days of windmills and slavery the planter, according to all accounts, was a nabob, and every sugar-estate on the fertile island was a gold-mine. Steam, free labor, and beetroot-sugar have changed all that. The windmills, no longer used except in out-of-the-world places, beyond the reach of levelling enterprise and matter-of-fact steam-power, are falling into ruin, and, like the castles of feudalism after the invention of gunpowder, are now but picturesque refuges for bats and owls. Their work is done by newfangled engines, housed in ugly sheds with awkward, straight up and down chimneys, built of dirty-red brick, or worse, rusty iron stacks, continually vomiting clouds of filthy smoke. The old mills were well built and hurricane-proof, their lower parts of stone, the upper stories of heavy joiner-@work. The great sails have rotted and fallen from many of them, leaving only the towers standing, and these are all overgrown with vines, mosses, cactuses, and parasitic plants. From where I stood I could see, on one side of the island, Basse-terre and its quiet harbor, the refuge of many vessels on the other, a long line of white breakers rolled in from the ocean, to fall in glisten-ing foam upon a beach lined by rows of willows, cotton-wood, and manchineel-trees, fringing the edges of the plantations. I looked across the meadow-land, where, beyond rugged cliffs, at the southern point of St. Kitt's, across a narrow strait, glimmering in the sun-light like frosted silver, Nevis swept grandly upward from the Atlan-tic into the dazzling clouds ever sleeping around the top of its great pyramid, hiding it from mortal sight day after day throughout the never-ending summe
 saunter about the town and see the sights. I have only space to extract from my note-book the accounts of such of my adventures as I think may be of most interest to my readers, and, first of all, I ask their attention to a sketch of a typical woman of an ancient race see Frontispiece . Strolling along the shady side of a wide and busy street, I overtook a young girl. I should have passed her, had I not slack-ened my gait when I came within a few steps of her and, walking softly, measuring my paces by hers, followed behind the unknown wayfarer@-@respectfully and at a proper distance@-@to study and admire her costume, which was so neatly fitted to her slight and charming figure, so tastefully disposed, draped in such dainty@ folds and graceful gatherings, that the wearer of it made a most attractive picture. Her little feet were bare nevertheless she trod firmly, stepping lightly, with graceful poise, walking as only those women can walk who, all their lives innocent of high-heeled boots, learned to balance bric-à-brac on their heads when they were little, doll-cuddling girls. From time to time the maiden stopped to gaze into the shop-windows, viewing with eager, sparkling eyes the wonders, so attractive to her, displayed by drapers and dealers in fashionable stuffs. When she halted thus to feast her soul I passed ahead of her then halting, waited till she, in turn, passed me again. In this way I was enabled to inspect, with approving criticism, the object of my admiration from tip to toe, and from every point of view. In time I made a mental catalogue of the bewildering items of her apparel and orna-ments, taking memoranda that would enable an ingenious artist to paint from my description a full-length picture of her. Need I say I felt exceedingly diffident while following the young lady about the streets, and hesitated long before I ventured to open my note-book for the purpose of jotting down details of her word-picture I feared I might else forget. She caught me looking at her, and smiled quizzically, as if she found me grotesque or outlandish in appearance. Nevertheless she smiled, and I, taking heart of grace, whipped out my log and jotted down Teeth, regular, white -and 
 syege to Rome and yet the emperour rode to the batayle, he commaunded his knyghtes and barones to take good hede fro whens that knyght came with the whyte horse, and what he was and where he became, for he had grete desyre to knowe what he was. The knyghtes answered it sholde be done. The day came that they must ryde forth to the batayle, and sertayne of the best knyghtes rode pryuely into a wood that stode a lytell there besyde, and there they wayted whiche waye the knyghte on the whyte horse sholde come to the batayle but they loste theyr laboure, for they coude not tell whens he come. But whan they sawe hym in the batayle, they rode towarde hym to helpe hym and receyue hym. This same batayle was sore foughten on bothe partyes, but the Sarasyns lost there courage, for Robert layde on soo grete and myghty strokes, that no man myght stande under his hande so that in con-clusyon Robert dyde so moche and so valyantly, that the Sarasyns were put to the dyscomfyture wherof themperour was gretly enioyed the senesshall with the Sarasyns were passynge angry and sore moued ther-with all. How one of the Emperour's knyghtes hurte Robert in his thyghe with a spere. THAN whan this batayle was done, euery man rode home, and Robert wolde haue tourned agayne to the fountayne to unarme hym as he was wonte to do before, but the forsayd knyghtes were torned agayne to t
 deyed of chylde, for all the ladyes and gentyl-women that there were with her wened, she wold have perysshed and deyed in trauaylynge. @Wherfore they were gretly abasshed and aferde with the merueylouse noise and tokens that they herde and se in the byrth of the said Robert the Deuyll, in that whan this chylde was borne, the sky waxed as darke as though it had been nyghte, as it is shewed in olde cronycles, that it thondreth and lyghtened so sore, that men thought the firmament had been open, and all the worlde sholde haue perysshed. And there blewe soo moche wynde out of the iiii quarters of the worlde, and was such storme and tempest, that al the hous trembled so sore, that it shoke a grete pece of it to the erth, in so moche that all they that were in the hous wened that the worlde had been at an ende, and that they, with the house and all, sholde haue sonken. But in shorte tyme it pleased God that all this trouble ceased, and the weder clered up, and the chylde was brought to chyrch to be crystened, whiche was named Robert. This childe was large of stature at his byrthe and he had been a yere old, whereof the people had grete wonder and as this chylde was a berynge to the chirche to be crystned and home ayenst, it neuer ceased cryenge and houlynge. And in shorte space he had longe teeth wherwith he bote the norshes pappes in such wyse, that there was no woman durst gyue hym souke, for he bote off the hedes of theyr brestes wherefore they were fayne to gyue hym souke and to brynge hym up with 
 degree ? with me thou mightest liue in pleasure, where here thou drawest thy dayes forth in paine by my loue thou shouldst be made a Lady of great treasures where now thou art poore and beggerly all manner of delights should then attend on thee, and whatsoeuer thy heart desireth, thou shouldst haue wherefore seeing it lyes in thy owne choice, make thy selfe happy, by consenting to my suite. Sir, quoth she I confesseyour loue deserues a Ladies fauour, your affection a faithful friend, such a one as could make but one heart and mind of two hearts and bodyes but farre vnfit it is that the Turtle should match with the Eagle, though her loue@be neuer so pure, her wings are vnfit to mount so high. While Thales gazed on the starres, he stumbled in a pit. And they that clime vnaduisedly, catch a fall suddenly what auaileth high dignity in time of aduersity ? it neither helpeth the sorrow of the heart, nor remoues the bodies misery as for wealth and treasure, what are they, but fortunes baits to bring men in danger ? good for nothing but to make people forget them@selues and whereas you alleadge pouerty to be a hinderer of the hearts comfort, I find it my selfe contrary, knowing more surety to rest vnder a simple habit, then a royall Robe and verily there is none in the world poore, but they that think themselues poore for such as are indued with content, are rich, hauing nothing else, but he that is possessed with riches, without content, is most wretched and mis
 in men has some small difference made, One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade The cobbler aproned, and the parson gowned, The friar hooded, and the monarch crowned. ' What differ more you cry than crown and cowl ? ' I'll tell you, friend@! a wise man and a fool. You'll find, if once the monarch acts the monk, Or, cobbler-like, the parson will be drunk, Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow, The rest is all but leather or prunello. Stuck o'er with titles, and hung round with strings, That thou may'st be by kings, or whores of kings Boast the pure blood of an illustrious race, In quiet flow from Lucrece to Lucrece But by your father's worth if yours you rate, Count me those only who were good and great. Go ! if your ancient, but ignoble blood Has crept through scoundrels ever since the flood, Go ! and pretend your family is young, Nor own your fathers have been fools so long. What can ennoble sots, or slaves, or cowards ? Alas@! not all the blood of all the Howards. Look next on greatness say where greatness lies, Where, but among the heroes and the wise ? Heroes are much the same, the point's agreed, From Macedonia's madman to the Swede The whole strange purpose of their lives to find, Or make, an enemy of all mankind ! Not one looks backward, onward still he goes, Yet ne'er looks forward further than his nose. No less alike the politic and wise All sly slow things, with circumspective eyes Men in their loose unguarded hours they take, Not that themselves are wise, but others wea
yfeather-cinctured chiefs, and dusky loves. Her track, where'er the goddess roves, Glory pursue, and generous Shame, The unconquerable Mind, and Freedom's holy flame. II. 3. Woods, that wave o'er Delphi's steep, Isles, that crown th' AEgean deep, Fields, that cool Ilissus laves, Or where Maeander's amber waves In lingering labyrinths creep, How do your tuneful echoes languish, Mute, but to the voice of Anguish ! Where each old poetic mountain Inspiration breathed around Every shade and hallowed fountain Murmured deep a solemn sound Till the sad Nine in Greece's evil hour Left their Parnassus for the Latian plains. Alike they scorn the pomp of tyrant-Power, And coward Vice, that revels in her chains. When Latium had her lofty spirit lost, They sought, O Albion ! next thy sea-encircled coast. III. 1. Far from the sun and summer-gale, In thy green lap was Nature's Darling laid, What time, where lucid Avon strayed, To him the mighty Mother did unveil Her awful face. The dauntless child Stretched forth his little arms and smiled. ' This pencil take ' she said ' whose colours clear Richly paint the vernal year 62. Cf. ' Girt with feathered cincture '.@-@Paradise Lost, ix. 1116. 66-68. Delphi was on Mount Parnassus. The Ilissus flowed through Athen
II. FABLE IS  LOVE'S WORLD. Max. O never rudely will I blame his faith In the might of stars and angels ! @Tis not merely The human being's pride that peoples space With life and mystical predominance Since likewise for the stricken heart of Love This visible nature, and this common world, Is all too narrow yea, a deeper import Lurks in the legend told my infant years Than lies upon that truth, we live to learn For fable is Love's world, his home, his birthplace Delightedly dwells he 'mong fays and talismans, And spirits and delightedly believes Divinities, being himself divine. The intelligible forms of ancient poets, The fair humanities of old religion, The power, the beauty, and the majesty, That had their haunts in dale, or piny mountain, Or forest, by slow stream, or pebbly spring, Or chasms and watery depths all these have vanished They live no longer in the faith of reason ! But still the heart doth need a language, still Doth the old instinct bring back the old names, And to yon starry world they now are gone, Spirits or gods, that used to share this earth With man as with their friend and to the lover This and the next are from Coleridge's translation of Schiller's Piccolomini, or the First Part of Wallcnstcin. Lines 14 to 20 are an expansion of two in the original which literally translated are -' The old fable existences are no more, The fascinating race has wandered away '. † The passage from lines 10 to 20 is quoted in Scott's Guy Mannering, 181
 the saccatra of pure African blood to the sangmêlé, who, being al-most white, might readily pass for a swarthy French creole of European descent. The costumes of the women were neat and agreeably clean their gowns, of cheapest prints or coarsest colored-stuffs, were arranged with taste and carefully draped. The garment of prevailing fashion was a single loose wrapper of colored calico or flowered muslin, belted at the waist with artful but perfectly excusable care. The young women leave one arm and shoulder bare, which, thrown into strong re-lief by well-washed cambric, makes a pleasing study in black and white, well worthy of the chalk and charcoal of the ablest Tile Club man or Salmagundian. When walking, the negresses gather up one side of their phylacteries, fastening them at the hip, thus adding to their jaunty appearance, gaining a certain chic which lends an artistic finish to their toilet for the negresses have learned from their French mis-tresses the arts and graces of making themselves attractive, and beyond doubt study how to make themselves pleasing in the sight of men. With a Franco-@A@fricaine, love of personal adornment is a passion in the gratification of which she displays a reckless extravagance, as witness the immense string of beads of extraordinary size she coils around her shapely neck, to say nothing of the preposterous rings she attaches to her ears@-@I do not exaggerate when I state that it would require but little stretch of the imagination, or of the ear-rings them-selves, to speak of some of them as being large enough to serve as muffin rings. A favorite form of ornament is composed of six golden bars, as large round and as long as the wearer's little finger, bound together with heavy bands these ear-rings look more like the gilt bar-rels of a six-chambered pistol than female gewgaws, and the beholder is surprised to find that the lobe of the human ear can bear the weight of so much metal without being torn or causing pain to the wearer. In keeping with these encumbrances, the size of which I do not exag-gerate, are brooches as large as soap-dishes, lockets the size of snuff-boxes, bracelets, armlets, finger-rings of all patterns and degrees of inconvenience@-@all gorgeous, not to say stunning@-@and I can hard
 for he found by his sodaine talking of his learning, that hee was a childe likely to prove a very great clerke hereat old Bacon was not well pleased for he desired to bring him up to plough and to the cart, as hee himselfe was brought yet he for reverence sake to the priest, shewed not his anger, but kindly thanked him for his paines and counsell, yet desired him not to speake any more concerning that matter for hee knew best what best pleased himselfe, and that he would doe so broke they off their talke, and parted. So soone as the old man came home, he called to his sonne for his bookes, which when he had, he lock'd them up, and gave the boy a cart whip in the place of them, saying to him Boy, I will have you no priest, you shall not be better learned than I, you can tell now by the almanack when it is best sowing wheat, when barly, pease, and beane and when the best libbing is, when to sell graine and cattell I will teach thee for I have all faires and markets as perfit in my memory, as Sir John our priest has masse without booke take mee this whip, I will teach thee the use of it, it will be more profitable to thee then this harsh Latin make no reply, but follow my counsell, or else by the masse thou shalt feele the smart hand of my anger. Young Bacon thought this but hard dealing, yet would he not reply, but within sixe or eight dayes he gave his father the slip, and went to a cloyster some twenty miles off, where he was entertained, and so continued his learnin
@III. REVENGE OF  THE fairest action of our human life Is scorning to revenge an injury For who forgives without a further strife, His adversary's heart to him doth tie. And 'tis a firmer conquest, truly said, To win the heart, than overthrow the head. If we a worthy enemy do find, To yield to worth it must be nobly done But if of baser metal be his mind, In base revenge there is no honour won. Who would a worthy courage overthrow, And who would wrestle with a worthless foe ? We say our hearts are great, and cannot yield Because they cannot yield, it proves them poor Great hearts are tasked beyond their power but seld The weakest lion will the loudest roar. Truth's school for certain doth this same allow, High-heartedness doth sometimes teach to bow. A noble heart doth teach a virtuous scorn,@-To scorn to owe a duty over-long To scorn to be for benefits forborne To scorn to lie, to scorn to do a wrong To scorn to bear an injury in mind To scorn a free-born heart slave-like to bind. But if for wrongs we needs revenge must have, Then be our vengeance of the noblest kind Do we his body from our fury save, And let our hate prevail against our mind ? What can 'gainst him a greater vengeance be, Than make his foe more worthy far than he ? 1613. -@Marian, the Fair Queen of Jewry, by Lady Care
 by the devill hee said that hee had not as yet paid all his debts, and therefore as yet hee was not liable to the bonds strait conditions. At this the Devill seemed angry and with a fearefull noyse transfformed himselfe to an ugly shape, saying, alas poore wretch, these are poore excuses that thou framest, I know them all to be false, and so will prove them to thy face to morrow morning, till when I leave thee to despaire So with great noyse he went his way, leaving the gentleman halfe dead with feare. When he was gone, the gentleman reviving be-thought himselfe in what a miserable state he was now in, then wished he that he had lived and died poorely, then cursed he all his ambitious thoughts, that led him first to desire againe that wealth which he had so vainly by his riot lost then would hee curse his prodigall expences that were the originall of all his misery thus was he tormented a long time in his minde, at last he fully resolved to end his wretched life by some violent death, and to that end he went forth thinking to kill himselfe, which he had done, had it not beene for the Fryer for as he was falling upon his sword, Fryer Bacon came by and called to him to hold, which he did-Fryer Bacon demanded of him the cause why he was so desperate that he would run headlong to hell ? O sir, said he, the cause is great, and the relation is so terrible to me, that I would intreat you not to trouble me any more, but to leave me to my owne will his answer filled the Fryer with amazement and pitty both at onc
 on slepe, in-with an houre or twoo, Me mette how I lay in the medewe thoo, To seen this flour that I love so and drede And from a-fer come walkyng in the mede The God of Love, and in his hande a quene, And she was clad in reäl habit grene, A fret of gold she haddë next her heer, And upon that a whit coroune she beer, With flourouns smale, and that I shal nat lye, For al the world ryght as a dayësye Ycorouned ys with whitë levës lyte, So were the flowrouns of hire coroune white For of oo perlë, fyne, oriental, Hire whitë corounë was imaked al, For which the whitë coroune above the grene Made hirë lyke a dayesie for to sene, Considered eke hir fret of golde above. Yclothed was this myghty God of Love In silke, embrouded ful of grenë greves, In-with a fret of redë rosë leves, The fresshest syn the world was first begonne. His giltë here was coroned with a sonne In stede of gold, for hevynesse and wyghte Therwith me thoght his facë shoon so brighte That wel unnethës myghte I him beholde And in his hand me thoghte I saugh him holde Twoo firy dartës, as the gledës rede, And aungelyke hys wynges saugh I sprede. And, al be that men seyn that blynd ys he, Algate me thoghtë that he myghtë se For sternëly on me he gan byholde, So that his loking dooth myn hertë colde. And by the hande he held this noble quene, Coroned with white, and clothëd al in gren
 man who infamy to shun Into the arms of death would run That man is ready to defend, With life, his country or his friend. 1718. -Swift. CCXII. EPISTLE TO MR. ADDISON. OCCASIONED BY HIS '@DIALOGUES ON MEDALS@'. SEE the wild waste of all-devouring years ! How Rome her own sad sepulchre appears ! With nodding arches, broken temples spread ! The very tombs now vanished like their dead ! Imperial wonders raised on nation spoiled, Where mixed with slaves, the groaning martyr toiled Huge theatres, that now unpeopled woods, Now drained a distant country of her floods Fanes, which admiring gods with pride survey, Statues of men, scarce less alive than they ! Some felt the silent stroke of mouldering age, Some hostile fury, some religious rage. Barbarian blindness, Christian zeal conspire, And Papal piety, and Gothic fire. Perhaps, by its own ruins saved from flame, Some buried marble half preserves a name That name the learned with fierce disputes pursue, And give to Titus old Vespasian's due. Ambition sighed she found it vain to trust The faithless column, and the crumbling bust Huge moles, whose shadow stretched from shore to shore, Their ruins perished, and their place no more ! Convinced, she now contracts her vast design, And all her triumphs shrink into a coi
 But when shall I enioy thee, delight of thy@ faire loue ? WOM. Euen when thou seest that fortune doth all manner lets remoue. MAN. O, I will fold thee in my armes, Trang dilly do, trang dilly, And keepe thee so from sudden harmes. WOM. Thou art my owne sweet bully. WOM. My husband he is gone from home, you know it very well. MAN. But when will he returne againe ? WOM. In truth I cannot tell. If long he keepe him out of sight, Trang dilly do, trang dilly. Be sure thou shalt haue thy delight. MAN. Thou art my bonny lassie. While they were singing this song, her husband being on a sudden come home, stood secretly in a corner and heard all, and blessing himselfe with both his hands, said, O abominable dissimulation, monstrous hypocrisie, and are you in this humour ? can you brawle together and sing together ? Well, qd. hee, I will let them alone, to see a little more of their knauery. Neuer did Cat watch Mouse so narrowly, as I will watch them And so going into the kitchin, he asked his wife if it were not dinner time. Euen by and by, husband quoth she the meat will be ready. Presently after comes in Hodge-kins and Martin, who straight asked for Cutbert 
 great desire I haue to maintaine you in your trades, hath moued me hereunto. Therefore boldly say what you would haue in the one thing or the other, and I will grant it you. With that, they all fell downe vpon their knees, and desired God to saue his Maiestie, and withall, requested three dayes respit to put in their answere which was graunted. And thereupon they departed. When the Clothiers had well considered of these matters, at length they thought meete to request of his Maiestie for their first benefit, that all the Cloth-measures thorow the Land might be of one length, whereas to their great disaduantage before, euery good towne had a seuerall measure, the difficulty thereof was such, that they could not keepe them in memory, nor know how to keepe their reckonings. The second thing whereof they found themselues grieued, was this, that the people would not take crackt money, though it were neuer so good siluer ? whereupon it came to passe, that the Clothiers and diuers others, receiuing great summes of money, doe take among it much crackt money, it serued them to no vse, because it would not goe currant, but lay vpon their hands without profit or benefit, whereof they prayed reformation. The third was a griefe, whereof Hodgekins of Halifax complained, and that was, That whereas the Towne of Halifax liued al-together vpon Cloathing, and by the reason of false borderers, and other euill minded persons, they were oft robbed, and had their clothes carried out of their fielde
 Editor, after discussing at some length who is the hero of the romance, inclines to the opinion expressed by the ancient Chronicles of Normandy that he is the son of a grand Signior named Aubest, and was first Duke or Governor of that province in the time of King Pepin, the Father of Charlemagne, in the year 751. This Aubest had a wife named Inde, sister of the Duke of Burgundy, by whom he had a son called Robert the Devil, on account of the enormities committed by him in the Forest of Rouveray, when he retired to the old castle, the ruins of which were visible at the top of Moulineux about three leagues from Rouen, when the worthy Sieur de Bras, Charles de Bourgueville, com-piled his Researches into the Antiquities of Normandy. On the other hand M. Achille Deville, one of the most distinguished Norman antiquaries, who published at Rouen, in 1835, an edition of the Mystere du Robert le Diable does not hesitate to express his conviction that the Robert the Devil, so celebrated by the ro-mancers and chroniclers of the middle ages, is no other than Robert Courte-Heuse the son of William the Conqueror. In the 14th century the jongleurs were accustomed to abridge and arrange in a form more easily to be remembered and better adapted for@ recitation, the longer romances of the preceding century, and to the
 Robert made hym a strong hous in a darke thycke wyldernes where he wrought myscheff without comparyson and aboue al mesure or natural reason. THEN whan Robarte herde and knewe of the forsayd thynges, he lete make in a thycke wylde foreste a stronge house, wherein he made his dwellynge place, and this place was wylde and strong, and more meter for wylde beestes, than for any people to abyde in, and there Robert assembled and gadered for his company, all the moost myscheuouste and falsest theues that he coude fynde or heere of in his faders lande, to wete morderers, theues, streterobers, rebelles, bren-ners of chyrches and houses, forsers of women, robbers of chyrches, and the moost wyckeste and curseste theues that were under the sone. Robert had gadered to doo hym seruyce wherof he was Capytayne, and in the forsayd wyldernesse, Robert wyth his company dyde so moche myschefe, that no tonge can tell, he mordred marchauntes, and all that came by the waye, no man durst loke out, nor come abrode for fere of Robert and his company, of whome every man was aferde, for they robbed all the countree, in so moche, that no man durst loke @out, but they were kylled of Robert or his men, also poore pelgremes that went on pelgremage were murdered by Robert and his company, in so moche, that euery man fledde from them, lyke as the shepe fledde from the wolfe for they were as wolues warynge, sleyinge all that they coude come by,
 which he supt so oft, that on his seat His dronken corse he scarse upholden can In shape and life more like a monster then a man. Unfit he was for any worldly thing, And eke unhable once to stirre or go Not meet to be of counsell to a king, Whose mind in meat and drinke was drowned so, That from his frend he seeldome knew his fo. Full of diseases was his carcas blew, And a dry dropsie through his flesh did flow, Which by misdiet daily greater grew. Such one was Gluttony, the second of that crew. And next to him rode lustfull LECHERY Upon a bearded Gote, whose rugged heare, And whally eies the signe of gelosy, Was like the person selfe whom he did beare Who rough, and blacke, and filthy, did appeare @Unseemely man to please faire Ladies eye Yet he of Ladies oft was loved deare, When fairer faces were bid standen by O! who does know the bend of women's fantasy ? In a greene gowne he clothed was full faire, Which underneath did hide his filthinesse And in his hand a burning hart he bare, Full of vaine follies and new fanglenesse For he was false, and fraught with ficklenesse, And learned had to love with secret lookes And well could daunce, and sing with ruefulnesse And fortunes tell, and read in loving bookes, And thousand other waies to bait his fleshly hookes. Inconstant man, that loved all he saw, And lusted after all that he did love Ne would his looser life be tide to la
 her smooth brown brow. On every one of her eight taper fingers she wore two or more rings, and on each of her wee thumbs not less than half a dozen. There was such a mass of bracelets, ban-gles, and circlets around her wrists, I am within bounds when I say that three or four pounds in weight of sterling silver had been perma-nently withdrawn from circulation to be beaten and moulded for her ornamentation and adornment. Above her elbows, broad silver bands encircled her shapely arms, and tightly round her dark and silk-soft waist she had clasped a girdle, made by linking silver half-crowns and Spanish dollars together, all of which were fastened firmly to a broad belt of red leather. My reader may now suppose that at last my catalogue of the metal-work with which this young Hindoo lady was weighted down, as if encased in armor, is completed. Not so, however for on each and every unpinched toe of both her dusty, travel-stained, little feet there shone a gay, silver ring@-@wished on perhaps romantic fancy ! , by her own true love, who doubtless worshipped the very ground she trod upon. Nor will the list of this maiden's jewels be completed until I am per-mitted to mention that she wore massive golden, or gold-plated, anklets, so broad and heavy, so solid in appearance, that the astonished beholder might well wonder how she managed to walk and step so lightly. She wore a sleeveless jacket of red India silk, trimmed with narrow braids of gold lace. About her head was wrapped a veil of white, woven gauze, delicately embroidered with colored thread and fringed with knotted silk. The loose flowing continuations of this veil were wrapped and wreathed, festooned and garlanded, around her lissome form but no man hath wit enough to tell, and no woman who has not practised the art from her cradle up can show, how gracefully and with what surprising dexterity this Hindoo girl managed the streamers of light cotton fabric. Deftly she controlled the fluttering, misty length, now coiling it turban-shape upon her head, now binding it about her face to shield her from the sun, or, perhaps, the too inquisi-tive gaze of passers-by. At times she hid her bare arms in its ma
 me half the gladness That thy brain must know, Such harmonious madness From my lips would flow, The world should listen then, as I am listening now ! 1820. -Shelley. CCCLII. ODE TO THE POETS. BARDS of Passion and of Mirth, Ye have left your souls on earth ! Have ye souls in heaven too, Double-lived in regions new@? -@Yes, and those of heaven commune With the spheres of sun and moon With the noise of fountains wondrous And the parle of voices thund'rous, With the whisper of heaven's trees And one another, in soft ease Seated on Elysian lawns Browsed by none but Dian's fawns Underneath large blue-bells tented, Where the daisies are rose-scented, And the rose herself has got Perfume which on earth is not Where the nightingale doth sing Not a senseless, tranced thing, But divine melodious truth Philosophic numbers smooth Tales and golden histories Of heaven and its mysteries. Thus ye live on high, and then On the earth ye live again And the souls ye left behind you Teach us, here, the way to find yo
 ON THE DEPARTURE OF SIR WALTER SCOTT FROM ABBOTSFORD FOR NAPLES. A TROUBLE, not of clouds, or weeping rain, Nor of the setting sun's pathetic light Engendered, hangs o'er Eildon's triple height Spirits of Power, assembled there, complain For kindred Power, departing from their sight While Tweed, best pleased in chanting a blithe strain, Saddens his voice again and yet again. Lift up your hearts, ye mourners ! for the might Of the whole world's good wishes with him goes Blessings and prayers in nobler retinue Than sceptred king or laurelled conqueror knows, Follow this wondrous potentate. Be true, Ye winds of ocean, and the midland sea, Wafting your charge to soft Parthenope ! 1@83@1. -@Wordsworth. CCCLXXIV. A RETROSPECT. LONG time a child, and still a child, when years Had painted manhood on my cheek, was I For yet I lived like one not born to die A thriftless prodigal of smiles and tears, No hope I needed, and I knew no fears. But sleep, though sweet, is only sleep and waking I waked to sleep no more at once o'ertaking The vanguard of my age, with all arrears Of duty on my back. Nor child, nor man, Nor youth, nor sage, I find my head is grey, For I have lost the race I never ran A rathe December blights my lagging May And still I am a child, though I be old Time is my debtor for my years untold. -@Hartley Colerid
 when in silence all is drowned, Fell murder walks his nightly round No room for peace, no room for you Adieu, celestial Nymph, adieu ! Shakespeare no more, thy sylvan son, Nor all the art of Addison, Pope's heaven-strung lyre, nor Waller's ease, Nor Milton's mighty self must please. Instead of these a formal band In furs and coifs around me stand With sounds uncouth and accents dry, That grate the soul of harmony, Each pedant sage unlocks his store Of mystic, dark, discordant lore And points with tottering hand the ways That lead me to the thorny maze. There, in a winding close retreat, Is Justice doomed to fix her seat There, fenced by bulwarks of the Law, She keeps the wondering world in awe And there, from vulgar sight retired, Like Eastern queens is more admired. O let me pierce the secret shade Where dwells the venerable maid ! There humbly mark, with reverent awe, The guardian of Britannia's Law Unfold with joy her sacred page, The united boast of many an age, Where mixed, yet uniform, appears The wisdom of a thousand years In that pure spring the bottom view, Clear, deep, and regularly true And other doctrines thence imbibe Than lurk within the sordid scribe 
 EVE RELATES HER  NOW Morn, her rosy steps in the eastern clime Advancing, sowed the earth with orient pearl, When Adam waked, so customed, for his sleep Was airy light, from pure digestion bred, And temperate vapours bland, which the only sound Of leaves and fuming rills, Aurora's fan, Lightly dispersed, and the shrill matin song Of birds on every bough so much the more His wonder was to find unwakened Eve With tresses discomposed and glowing cheek, As through unquiet rest. He, on his side Leaning half-raised, with looks of cordial love Hung over her enamoured, and beheld Beauty, which whether waking or asleep Shot forth peculiar graces then, with voice Mild as when Zephyrus on Flora breathes, Her hand soft touching, whispered thus ' Awake, My fairest, my espoused, my latest found, Heaven's last best gift, my ever-new delight@! Awake ! the morning shines, and the fresh field Calls us we lose the prime to mark how spring Our tended plants, how blows the citron grove, What drops the myrrh, and what the balmy reed, How Nature paints her colours, how the bee Sits on the bloom extracting liquid sweet.' Such whispering waked her, but with startled eye On Adam, whom embracing, thus she spake ' O sole in whom my thoughts find all repose, My glory, my perfection ! glad I see Thy face, and morn returned for I this night Such night till this I never passed have dreamed,
 hee was content to take his owne worde. Where-upon Tom Doue went presently to Reading, where at his comming, he found all the rest of the Clothiers, lamenting Coles vntimely death where the wofull widdow paid him the money, by which deed all the rest of the Clothiers were induced to doe some-thing for Doue. And thereupon one gaue him ten pounds, another twenty, another thirtie pounds, to begin the world anew and by this meanes toge-ther with the blessing of God he grew into greater credit then euer hee was before. And riches being thus come vpon him, his former friends came fawn-ing vnto him and when he had no neede of them, then euerie one was readie to proffer him kindnesse. His wicked seruants also that disdained him in his dis-tresse, were after glad to come creeping vnto him, intreating with cap and knee for his fauour and friendship. And albeit hee seemed to forgiue their trespasses done against him, yet hee would often say, he would neuer trust them for a straw. And thus he euer after liued in great wealth and prosperitie, doing much good to the poore, and at his death, left to his children great land
THE FAMOUS HISTORIE OF FRYER BACON. Of the Parents and Birth of Fryer Bacon, and how he addicted himselfe to Learning. IN most men's opinions he was borne in the west part of England and was sonne to a wealthy farmer, who put him to schoole to the parson of the towne where hee was borne not with intent that he should turne fryer as he did, but to get so much understanding, that he might manage the better that wealth hee was to leave him. But young Bacon tooke his learning so fast, that the priest could not teach him any more, which made him desire his master that he would speake to his father to put him to Oxford, that he might not lose that little learning that hee had gained his master was very willing so to doe and one day meeting his father, told him, that he had received a great blessing of God, in that he had given him so wise and hopefull a child, as his sonne Roger Bacon was for so was he named and wished him withall to doe his duty, and to bring up so his child, that hee might shew his thankfulnesse to God, which could not better be done then in making of him
@s doughter, the whiche passed and exceded ferre aboue his degree, he had not dyed this shameful deth, but myght haue lyued and the emperour also, and haue dyed good frendes. How that the Duke Robert tourned agayne to Rowayne after he had made the Senesshall to be slayne. ROBERT the duke defended the cytefrom theyr enemyes, and than he retourned agayne with all his companye unto Rowane to his wyfe, whiche was passynge sorrow-full and pensyfe but whan she herde that the traytour the senesshall had slayne her fader, she was almoost out of her mynde but Robert's moder comforted her in the best maner that she coude or myght. And for to make shortely an ende of our mater, and so to fenysshe this boke we wyll lette passe to wryte of the grete dole and sorowe of the yonge duchesse, and speke of the duke Robert, whiche in his youth was about to all mys-chefe and vyce, and all ungracyousnes, without ony measure or reason, for he was a greter devourer, and a more vengeable, than any lyon, nothynge sparynge, nor on no man hauynge mercy nor pyte. And after this he lyued xii yere in grete penaunce, lyke a wylde man, without ony speche, and lyke a dumbe beest etynge and drynkynge with dogges, and there after was he exalted and honoured of them, whiche before dyde holde hym for a fole or an innocente, and mocked with hym. This Robert lyued longe in vertue and honoure with that noble ladye his wyfe, and he was beloued and dradde of hyghe and lowe degre, for he dyde ryg
 sense can only boast, The glory of his numbers lost@! Years have defaced his matchless strain, And yet he did not sing in vain. The beauties which adorned that age, The shining subjects of his rage, Hoping they should immortal prove, Rewarded with success his love. This was the generous poet's scope, And all an English pen can hope, To make the fair approve his flame, That can so far extend their fame. Verse, thus designed, has no ill fate, If it arrive but at the date Of fading beauty if it prove But as long-lived as present love. -@Waller. CLXXI. FROM THE ODE TO THE ROYAL SOCIETY.@ Bacon, at last, a mighty man, arose, Whom a wise King and Nature chose Lord Chancellor of both their laws, And boldly undertook the injured pupil's cause. Authority, which did a body boast, Though 'twas but air condensed, and stalked about Like some old giant's more gigantic ghost, To terrify the learned rout, With the plain magic of true reason's light He chased out of our sight, This ode was first published in Sprat's History of the Royal Society, 1667. The Royal Society was founded in 166
 too little, I would haue mended it If thy apparell had been too simple, thou shouldst haue had better If thy worke had bin too great, I would haue had helpe for thee. Farewell my sweet Meg, the best seruant that euer came in any mans house, many may I haue of thy name, but neuer any of thy nature, thy diligence is much, in thy hands I laid the whole gouernment of my house, and thereby eased my@selfe of that care, which now will cum-ber me. Heere shee hath left me my keyes vnto my chests, but my comfort is gone with her presence, euery gentle word that she was wont to speake, comes now into my mind, her courteous behauiour shall I neuer forget with how sweet and modest a countenance would she qualifie my ouer-hastie nature ? It repents my heart that euer I spoke foule word vnto her. O Meg, wert thou here againe, I would neuer chide thee more but I was an vnworthy Dame for such a seruant what will become of me now, if I should chance to be sicke, see-ing she is gone, that was wont to be both my Apoticary and Physician ? Well, quoth her neighbours, there is no remedy now, but to rest content, you shall one day heare of her, doubt you not, and thinke this, that she was not so good, but you may get another as good, and therefore doe not take it so heauily. O neighbour, blame me not to grieue, seeing I haue lost so great a iewell, and sure I am pe
 sounded all the depths and shoals of honour, Found thee a way, out of his wrack, to rise in A sure and safe one, though thy master missed it. Mark but my fall, and that that ruined me. Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition By that sin fell the angels how can man, then, The image of his Maker, hope to win by't ? Love thyself last cherish those hearts that hate thee Corruption wins not more than honesty. Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace, To silent envious tongues. Be just, and fear not. Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's, Thy God's, and truth's then, if thou fallest, O Cromwell, Thou fallest a blessed martyr. Serve the king And,@-@Prithee, lead me in -There, take an inventory of all I have, To the last penny,@-@'tis the king's my robe, And my integrity to heaven, is all I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell, Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, He would not in mine age Have left me naked to mine enemies. -@Henry VIII., iii. 2. XCII. MAN IS HIS OWN STAR. MAN is his own star, and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect man, Commands all light, all influence, all fate Nothing to him falls early or too late Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, Our fatal shadows that walk by us still. -@Fletcher. 1613. Upon an Honest Man's Fortun
 God sent an aungell to the heremyte that he sholde goo to Rome and seke Robert, for he had full doone his penaunce. THE heremyte whiche ye haue herde of before, that shroue and sette Robert his penaunce, laye on a nyght in his selle and slepte, and thus slepynge there cam to hym a voyce, and bad hym lyghtly aryse and goo to Rome, to the place where Robert was doynge his penaunce and the aungell tolde the heremyte all the doynges of Robert, shewynge how that his penaunce was fully done, and that God hadde forgyuen hym his synnes, wherof the heremyte was uery gladde, and in the mornynge erly he arose and wente to Rome warde, and in lyke wyse in the same mornynge the senesshall rose be tyme and wente to Rome to the emperoure to desyre and haue his doughter accordynge to the publycacyon and crye, to the whiche the emperoure consented her to hym without any longe aduysement. But whan the doughter understode that she was gyuen to the senesshall she raylled and raged as thoughe she hadde ben wood and madde she tare her hare from her heed, and all to tare her clothes, but it myght nothynge auayle her, for she was constrayned, and must be arayed lyke a bryde, and an emperour's doughter which shold be maryed, and the emperour ladde her by the hande hymselfe to the chyrche royally accompanyed with lordes and ladyes and gentylwomen, but the doughter made the gretest sorowe of the worlde in so moche that no man coude content her mynd
 to the fascination of a name Surrender judgment, hoodwinked. Some the style Infatuates, and through labyrinths and wilds Of error leads them, by a tune entranced. While sloth seduces more, too weak to bear The insupportable fatigue of thought, And swallowing therefore, without pause or choice, The total grist unsifted, husks and all. But trees, and rivulets whose rapid course Defies the check of winter, haunts of deer, And sheep-walks populous with bleating lambs, And lanes in which the primrose ere her time@@@@@@ Peeps through the moss that clothes the hawthorn root, Deceive no student. Wisdom there, and Truth, Not shy as in the world, and to be won By slow solicitation, seize at once The roving thought and fix it on themselves. -@Cowper's Task, bk. vi. CCLXVII. TO THE MOON. QUEEN of the silver bow ! by thy pale beam, Alone and pensive, I delight to stray, And watch thy shadow trembling in the stream, Or mark the floating clouds that cross thy way And, while I gaze, thy mild and placid light Sheds a soft calm upon my troubled breast And oft I think, fair planet of the night, That in thy orb the wretched may have rest The sufferers of the earth perhaps may go, Released by death, to thy benignant sphere, And the sad children of Despair and Woe Forget, in thee, their cup of sorrow here. Oh ! that I soon may reach thy world serene, Poor wearied pilgrim in this toiling scene ! -@Charlotte Smit
 yet for the ravage of winter I mourn Kind Nature the embryo blossom will save. But when shall spring visit the mouldering urn,@-O when shall it dawn on the night of the grave@? ' 'Twas thus, by the glare of false science betrayed, That leads to bewilder, and dazzles to blind, My thoughts wont to roam, from shade onward to shade, Destruction before me, and sorrow behind. O pity, great Father of Light, then I cried, Thy creature, who fain would not wander from Thee Lo, humbled in dust, I relinquish my pride From doubt and from darkness Thou only canst free ! ' And darkness and doubt are now flying away, No longer I roam in conjecture forlorn. So breaks on the traveller, faint, and astray, The bright and the balm@y effulgence of morn. See Truth, Love, and Mercy, in triumph descending, And Nature all glowing in Eden's first bloom ! On the cold cheek of Death smiles and roses are blending, And Beauty immortal awakes from the tomb.' -@Beattie. CCXLVIII. CHURCHILL'S DESCRIPTION OF HIS MUSE. ME, whom no muse of heavenly birth inspires, No judgment tempers when rash genius fires, Who boast no merit but mere knack of rhyme, Short gleams of sense, and satire out of time, Who cannot follow where trim Fancy leads By ' prattling streams,' o'er ' flower-empurpled meads' Who often, but without success, have prayed For apt alliteration's artful ai
 hym of this before sayd knyght he hadde many tymes suppressed, and done wronge to his moder, sythen the deth of his fader than whan Robert herde and understode this, he sente lyghtely men of armes to take the sayd knyght the whiche dyde so moche that they toke hym and brought hym to Robert whiche made hym to be hanged, wherfore the duches was ryght glad, but she was moche more gladder that Robert her sone was come home, for she wende he hadde ben deed and whan Robert and his moder were thus togyder, he recounted unto her how the emperour had gyuen hym his doughter in maryage, and how he had done his penaunce, the duchesse herynge her sones wordes, she began to wepe very sore, for bycause he had suffred so grete pouerte and penaunce thrughe his defaute. How the Emperour sent a messanger unto the Duke Robert, that he sholde come and rescue hym ayenst the Senesshall. IN the meane season, whyles Robert was thus at Rowane with his moder and his lady in grete joye and solace, there came a messanger fro the emperour unto Robert whiche dyde hym reuerence, and saynge thus unto hym My lorde duke, the emperour hathe sente me hyther to you, and he prayeth you for to come and rescue hym ayenst the false traytoure the senesshall with the Sara-syns, which haue layde syege to Rome. Whan Robert herde these wordes, he was sorye in his mynde for them-perour, and shortly assembled as many men of armes 
 out the land, killing, by what proved to be mistaken kindness, the goose that was expected to lay golden eggs. The product of sugar on the island increased from 24,777 hogsheads in 1845 to 39,290 in 1855, rose to 47,209 in 1865, reached 65,000 in 1875, and the record for nine months of 1884 shows a yield of 59,000 hogs-heads, with the last quarter of that year still to be heard from by the compiler of my statistics. What Barbadian energy, imported fertilizers, and improved sugar-machinery were able to accomplish during the last twelvemonth I am unable to state but this I do know If the dismal forebodings of the planters, factors, and shippers of sugar I met in Bridgetown have, since I paid my visit to that town in the year of which I am now writing, found their fulfilment, then is Barbados to-day beyond doubt poorer by thousands of pounds sterling than before the crops of 1885 -86 were planted. What wonder, then, that at the time of my visit to their island I found the Barbadians in a fever of excitement and indignation be-cause the English Government had, shortly before, refused to accept a proposition made by President Arthur's Administration to the effect the Senate of the United States concurring that all the raw sugar grown in the British West Indies should be admitted free into American ports, in consideration of the removal of duties on one hundred and fifty various articles of export from the States into the Caribbean Islands ? To say that the Barbadians w@ere provoked at the action of the mother count@ry would be to put the matter very mildly. They were, in truth, as mad as marabunta hornets. This swarm of human bees neglected their regular business of gathering sugar from every ripening cane-piece, and fell to talking politics and politi-cal economy with the earnestness and righteous wrath of men whose liberties and pockets are in danger. Nevertheless and notwith-standing their anger and it was hot at the shabby treatment they had received at the hands of the home government, the Barbadians remained royally loyal to the English Crown, standing ready to ba
 call in two or three of her neighbours wiues to keepe him company, where, ere they parted, they were made as pleasant as Pies. And this being a con¬ tinual ! custome amongst them when they came thither, at length the w@omens husbands beganne to take excep¬ tions at their wiues going thither whereupon great controuersie grew betweene them, in such sort, that when they were most restrained, then they had most desire to worke their wills now gip quoth they must we be so tyed to our taske, that wee may not drinke with our friends ? fie, fie, vpon these yellow hose will no other die serue your turne ? haue wee thus long bin your wiues, and doe you now mistrust vs ? verily you eate too much salt, and that makes you grow cholericke, badde liuers iudge all others the like, but in faith you shall not bridle vs so like asses, but wee will goe to our friends, when we are sent for, and doe you what you can. Well, quoth their husbands, if you be so head-strong, we will tame you it is the duty of honest women to obey their husbands sayings. And of honest men quoth they to thinke well of their wiues but who doe sooner empeach their credit, then their husbands, charging them@, if they doe but smile, that they are subtill and if they doe hut winke, they account them wily if sad of countenance, then sullen if they be froward, then they are counted shrewes and sheepish if they bee gentle if a woman keepe her house, then you will say shee is melancholy, if shee walke abroade, then you call her a gadder a Puritane, if she be precise and a wanton, if .shee 
 soul, the centre of my sinful earth, Fooled by those rebel powers that thee array, Why dost thou pine within, and suffer dearth, Painting thy outward walls so costly gay ? Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend ? Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, Eat up thy charge ? Is this thy body's end ? Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross Within be fed, without be rich no more So shalt thou feed on Death, that feeds on men, And, Death once dead, there's no more dying then. -@Shakspere, Sonnet 146. LVI. MERCY. THE quality of mercy is not strained It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath it is twice blessed It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes. 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest it becomes The thronèd monarch better than his crown His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings But mercy is above this sceptered sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God  Perhaps the two most completely powerful sonnets in our literature.'@-@J. A. Symond
 sicke and ill but her dame was most tender ouer her and would suffer her to lacke nothing. When she was somewhat well recouered, her Dame Gray set her on horsebacke and at her comming to Glocester, there was no small ioy. How Thomas Doue being fallen to decay, was forsaken of his friends, and despised of his seruants and how in the end he was raised againe through the liberality of the Clothiers. Chap. 14. SUCH as seeke the pleasure of the world, follow a shadow wherein is no substance and as the adder Aspis tickleth a man to death, so doth vaine pleasure flatter vs, till it makes vs forget God, and consume our substance, as by Tom Doue it is apparent, who had through a free heart, and a liberall minde wasted his wealth and looke how his goods consumed, so his friends fled from him And albeit he bad beene of great ability, and thereby done good vnto many, yet no man regarded him in his pouerty, but casting a scornefull countenance vpon him, they passed by him with slender salutation neither would any of his former acquaintance do him good, or pleasure him the value of a farthing his former friendship done to them was quite forgot, and he made of as much account, as Iob when he sate on the dunghill. Now, when his wicked seruants saw him in this dis-grace with the world, they on the other side began to disdaine him. Notwithstanding that hee to his gre
 wind chased dark masses of clouds relentlessly before it occasional flurries of snow, mingled with dust set free by March thaws and subsequent dry spells, choked and blinded the few, the very few, venturesome folk who hurried along the almost deserted thoroughfares of New York City. @Rheumatism and lumbago claimed their victims at the street-corners coughs and colds lurked privily, lying wait at every open door and window. Heaped in the gutters and piled high within the iron railings in front of the houses there yet remained unmelted patches and remnants of grimy snow, the cast-off rags and tatters of winter. Strange noises were to be heard overhead, where revolving chimney-tops groaned and grumbled as they turned every which way on stiffened joints shutters moaned on rusty hinges win-dow-blinds banging away like batteries of artillery, threatened to fly from their fastenings to dash themselves into kindling on the icy pavements below. There was a cheerful fire of soft coal burning in the dining-room grate. As I settled myself at table my father left his place at the window, and, approaching the fireplace, laid a fair, round hickory-stick on the glowing embers, where it presently began to sing as merrily as the Perrybingle family tea-kettle. When the flames had licked the wood all over, with much hissing and smacking of lips they proceeded leisurely to devour the fragrant morsel, roaring up the chimney mean-while in brave defiance of the tempest as it whistled the sparks upward to lead them a merry dance out into the cold and gloom of winter. Once more stationing himself at his point of observation my father re-marked, in the confident tone of a man who had weighed well his words The Doctor will catch it this afternoon when he gets outside of Sandy Hook ! Hardly were the words spoken when an unusually violent gust, the cause of renewed groanings and sounds of woe among the chimney-tops, swooping down from the roofs of the dwellings to windward of our home dashed like invisible driving spray against the window-panes. The blast roared lustily, but, failing to frighten the observer from h
 YE MARINERS OF ENGLAND. YE Mariners of England That guard our native seas ! Whose flag has braved, a thousand years, The battle and the breeze ! Your glorious standard launch again To match another foe And sweep through the deep, While the stormy winds do blow While the battle rages loud and long And the stormy winds do blow. The spirits of your fathers Shall start from every wave@-For the deck it was their field of fame, And Ocean was their grave Where Blake and mighty Nelson fell,† Your manly hearts shall glow, As ye sweep through the deep, While the stormy winds do blow While the battle, etc. Britannia needs no bulwarks, No towers along the steep Her march is o'er the mountain waves, Her home is on the deep. With thunders from her native oak She quells the floods below@-As they roar on the shore, When the stormy winds do blow While the battle, etc. In the first edition it was ' stormy tempests blow '. † In the first edition, written in Nelson's lifetime, this line stood ' Where Blake, the boast of freedom, fell@
 Nevertheless, the heart of the island is exceedingly fertile there verdant meadows and savannahs alternate with cultivated cane-pieces. The coast is indented by shallow coves and land-locked bays into which, in the rainy season, a few short-lived creeks and rivulets empty sluggish currents. In the dry season the beds of these water-courses bake and harden in the heat of the sun and all the country withers to a russet brown, for the atmosphere of Antigua, by compar-ison with that of some of the other islands, is hot and parching. For all that, it is by no means the dry-as-dust place, where the earth re-fuses to yield water for the use of man, that by some ill-informed travellers it is said to be. The annual rainfall is forty-five inches, but in unusually hot seasons it has been known to decrease to less than twenty-six inches. If compared with the neighboring island of Dom-inica, where the fountains of the great deep are in a continual state of disruption, pouring down no less than two hundred and eight inches of rain in a twelvemonth, Antigua is indeed a thirsty land. Its name in the Spanish tongue, we are informed by Wynne in his chronicle, sig-nifies a place without water, but other historians assert that when the island was discovered, in the year 1493, by Christopher Columbus the few Caribs settled there called it Xamaca, a land of springs. Other authorities point out that Xamaca means a place of forests, and by that name Jamaica was known in old times. This we may well believe, seeing that Jamaica is a veritable land of forest and of flood. It is therefore probable that in some way a confusion has arisen as to the ancient names of the two islands, and through all the changing years the Carib name of the lesser island has been forgotten never to be recalled. When we visited Antigua, at the end of an unusually long dry season, when prayers for rain were being offered up in the churches, we found the vegetation moderately green, with only here and there a hill-top or steep slope showing brown and scorched. We could easily imagine, what is beyond doubt a fact, that at all times of the year An-tigua is picturesque, wanting, it is true, in the grandeur so characteri
 to take unto the height The measure of themselves, these favoured beings, All but a scattered few, live out their time, Husbanding that which they possess within, And go to the grave unthought of. Strongest minds Are often those of whom the noisy world Hears least. -@Wordsworth's Excursion@ bk. i. CCCXXII. SUNRISE.† He had felt the power Of Nature, and already was prepared, By his intense conceptions, to receive Deeply the lesson deep of love which he, Whom Nature, by whatever means, has taught To feel intensely, cannot but receive. Such was the boy -@but for the growing youth,@-What soul was his, when, from the naked top Of some bold headland, he beheld the sun Rise up, and bathe the world in light ! He looked@-Ocean and earth, the solid frame of earth And ocean's liquid mass, in gladness lay Beneath him -@Far and wide the clouds were touched, And in their silent faces could he read Unutterable love. Sound needed none, Nor any voice of joy his spirit drank The spectacle sensation, soul, and form, All melted into him they swallowed up His animal being in them did he live, The Excursion is a poem in six books, mainly occupied with prosaic themes but ' some of its passages rank among the poet's highest flights. Such is the passage in book i., describing the bo@ys rapture at Sunrise † and the picture of a Sunset at the close of the same book. Such is the opening of book iv. and the passa
 and more dear, though now Hidden from sight? Where they rejoice to be, There is the land for me Fly time, fly speedily, Come life and light ! 1843. -@Lady Nairne. CCCXXXLV. CHARITIE. THE beams of morning are renewed, The valley laughs their light to see And earth is bright with gratitude, And heaven with Charitie. Oh ! dew of heaven oh ! light of earth, Fain would our hearts be filled with thee, Because nor darkness comes, nor death About the home of Charitie. God guides the stars their wandering way, He seems to cast their courses free, But binds unto Himself for aye, And all their chains are Charitie. When first He stretched the signèd zone, And heaped the hills, and barred the sea, Then Wisdom sat beside His throne, But His own word was Charitie. And still through every age and hour, Of things that were and things that be, Are breathed she presence and the power Of everlasting Charitie. This first appeared in a small volume of poems published in 1843 for private circulation. Mr. Ruskin obtained the Newdigate Prize at Oxford in 183
 it to drown or underset with flame The suspect present of the Greeks' deceit Or bore and gage the hollow caves uncouth. So diverse ran the giddy people's mind. Lo ! foremost of a rout that followed him, Kindled Laocoon hasted from the tower, Crying far off ' O wretched citizens ! What so great kind of frenzy fretteth you ? Deem ye the Greeks our enemies to be gone ? Or any Greekish gifts can you suppose Devoid of guile ? Is so Ulysses known ? Either the Greeks are in this timber hid Or this an engine is to annoy our walls, To view our towers, and overwhelm our town. Here lurks some craft. Good Troyans ! give no trust Unto this horse for, whatsoever it be, I dread the Greeks yea ! when they offer gifts.' And with that word, with all his force a dart He lanced then into that crookèd womb Which trembling stuck, and shook within the side Wherewith the caves gan hollowly resound. And, but for Fates, and for our blind forecast, The Greeks' device and guile had he descried Troy yet had stood, and Priam's towers so high. 1540. -@Surrey. IX. FORGET NOT YET. Forget not yet the tried intent Of such a truth as I have meant My great travail so gladly  Published, with Surrey's poems, in Tottel's Miscellany 1557 , the earliest collection of the kind in the language.
 Statia in 1664. At the present time it cannot be said to enjoy any degree of prosperity, and few of the descendants of the original settlers remain upon the island. Its glory has departed the soil, exhausted by reckless cultivation, yields but small return for the labor expended upon it. There is but little trade of any kind, either export or import, between the island and any other part of the world, except that annu-ally a few cargoes of yams, the chief crop now raised there, are shipped away to St. Christopher or to the other neighboring colonies. Orangetown, the only town in Statia, lies on the western coast, partly on the beach, and partly on the cliffs, one hundred and fifty feet above. In front of it, antiquated Fort Orange crumbles slowly away through all these years of peace, of no more value as a defence, in time of war, as war is waged nowadays, than a breastplate of beaten iron in a battle between soldiers armed with needle-guns or Remington rifles. St. Eustatius, or St. Eustace, as Davies the historian calls it, has been a Dutch colony ever since 1600, many years before Peter Stuyvesant governed in the New Netherlands. Once the island was temporarily in the possession of Great Britain, for in the year 1782 Admiral Rodney, of whose name and fame the history of the Caribbean Islands, contains frequent and glorious mention, captured Statia, at the same time reducing St. Bart's, St. Martin, and almost inaccessible Saba, to subjection to the crown of Great Britain. Rodney secured by these conquests immense booty of merchandise and ships, but leaving Statia insufficiently defended, it was shortly afterward retaken by French and Dutch adventurers, and has remained in the possession of descend-ants of the latter until the present time. St. Eustatius is separated from St. Christopher by a channel seven miles in width across this the Barracouta steamed after night had fallen and we had lost all view of land. The stars were shining with wonderful lustre, casting wavering reflections in the sea the water was unruffled, the wind having died away under the lee of the lofty peaks of St. Christopher. It was nearly midnight when we ran into the shadows of mighty hills and skirted along the western coast of t
 meteor flag of England Shall yet terrific burn Till danger's troubled night depart And the star of peace return. Then, then, ye ocean-warriors ! Our song and feast shall flow To the fame of your name, When the storm has ceased to blow Then the fiery fight is heard no more, And the storm has ceased to blow. 1800@ -@Campbell. CCLXXXV. INSCRIPTION ON THE TOMB OF COWPER. YE who with warmth the public triumph feel Of talents dignified by sacred zeal, Here, to devotion's bard devoutly just, Pay your fond tribute due to Cowper's dust@! England exulting in his spotless fame, Ranks with her dearest sons his favourite name. Sense, fancy, wit, suffice not all to raise So clear a title to affection's praise His highest honours to the heart belong His virtues formed the magic of his song. -@Hayley. CCLXXXVI. HOHENLINDEN. ON Linden, when the sun was low, All bloodless lay the untrodden snow, And dark as winter was the flow Of Iser, rolling  battle was fought Dec. 2, 1800, between the Austrians and the French. Hohenlinden means '@high lime-trees
 without creeping, high without loss of wings Smooth, yet not weak, and by a thorough care, Big without swelling, without painting, fair. Great soul of numbers, whom we want and boast, Like curing gold, most valued now thou'rt lost When we shall feed on refuse offals, when We shall from corn to acorns turn again Then shall we see that these two names are one, Jonson and Poetry, which now are gone. -Cartwright. CXXXIV. TO THE QUEEN, ENTERTAINED AT NIGHT BY THE COUNTESS OF ANGLESEY. FAIR as unshaded light, or as the day In its first birth, when all the year was May Sweet as the altar's smoke, or as the new Unfolded bud, swelled by the early dew Smooth as the face of waters first appeared, Ere tides began to strive, or winds were heard Kind as the willing saints, and calmer far Than in their sleeps forgiven hermits are. You that are more than our discreeter fear Dares praise, with such full art, what make you here ? Here, where the summer is so little seen, That leaves, her cheapest wealth, scarce reach at green You come, as if the silver planet were Misled a while from her much-injured sphere And, t' ease the travels of her beams to-night, In this small lanthorn would contract her light. -@Davenant. Cf. lines 33 and 34 from Denham's Cooper's Hill, page 17
 what, he did but once see our Nicke kisse Nel, and presently he powred out this rime That kisse, O Nell, God giue thee ioy, Will nine months hence breed thee a boy. And Ile tell you what, you shall heare we kept reckoning, and it fell out iust as Iones buttockes on a close stoole, for which cause our maids durst neuer kisse a man in his sight vpon this they broke company, and went euery one about his business, the London Weauers to their frames,@and theCountryfellowes to their Dames, who after their great banqueting and merriment, went euery one home to their owne houses, though with lesse money than they brought out, yet with more pride. Especially Simons wife of South-hampton, who told the rest of her gossips, that she saw no reason, but that their husbands should maintaine them, as well as the Merchants did their wiues for I tell you what, quoth she, we are as proper women in my conceit, as the proudest of them all, as handsome of body, as faire of face, our legs as well made, and our feet as fine then what reason is there seeing our husbands are of as good wealth, but we should be as well maintained. You say true gossip, said Suttons wife trust me, it made me blush, to see them braue it out so gallantly, and wee to goe so homely but before God said the other, I will haue my husband to buy me a London gowne, or in faith he shall haue little quiet so shall mine said another and mine too, qd. the third and all of th
 in thought, will join your throng, Ye that pipe and ye that play, Ye that through your hearts to-day Feel the gladness of the May ! What though the radiance, which was once so bright, Be now for ever taken from my sight, Though nothing can bring back the hour Of splendour in the grass, of glory in the flower ? We will grieve not, rather find Strength in what remains behind, In the primal sympathy Which having been, must ever be In the soothing thoughts that spring Out of human suffering In the faith that looks through death. In years that bring the philosophic mind. 1@1. And oh ye fountains, meadows, hills, and groves, Think not of any severing of our loves ! Yet in my heart of hearts I feel your might I only have relinquished one delight, To live beneath your more habitual sway. I love the brooks, which down their channels fret, Even more than when I tripped lightly as the@y The innocent brightness of a new-born day Is lovely yet The clouds that gather round the setting sun Do take a sober colouring from an eye That hath kept watch o'er man's mortality Another race hath been, and other palms are won. Thanks to the human heart by which we live Thanks to its tenderness, its joys and fears To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears. -@Wordswort
