821 ,f e I nation had of ivh , r wo,,,,, f 8 ' ? a wro, bf then ' I™ T the I bp, n '■••tea f' b,e pre-Ha,,-. I adhered t . •nnexion with T tn Coiuicjj I Ministers at I I '■ the tepa. •eluded in n e °f Europe lour iiist Se s -l'i which had ar v ej b. I d 'n'eres-iag I o harmony, l-eding of th e Regency. J tsp of th laws and we shall the lash •rt townr erected, Ihe several Kle of ex-lropriation. r e of the Orleans, lit pro vided on stibmit-ely ade-has been to lie reraJ rc-Deccm-ld 103 the examiner. in the present year these, with those .before, possessed, are sufficient for the harbour ,and waters most exposed and the residue will require little time for their construc tion, when it shall he deemed.necessary. • Under the Act of tiie last Session, for raising on ad-tWtiona! military force, so many officers were immediately appointed as were necessary for carrying on the business of recruiting and in proportion as it advanced, others har e been added. We have reason to believe their sues ce s has iiCen satisfactory, although such returns have not been received, as enable vgc t present you a statement of the numbers engaged. 1 have not thought it necessary, in the course of the last season,- to call for nay general detachments of Militia, or of Volunteers, under the laws passed for that purpose for the ensuing season, however, they will he required to V.c in readiness, should their service be wattled, Sonic Small and special detachments have been necessary to maintain the laws of embargo, on that portion of our Jfnrthcra -frontier, which offered peculiar facilities for evasion t hut these were replaced, as soon as it could be done, by bodies of new recruits. By, the aid of these, and of tlte armed vessels called into service in other quar ters, the spirit of disobedience and abuse, which mani fested itself early, and with sensible effect, while we were unprepared ,to meet it, has been considerably repressed. Considering the extraordinary character of tile times in which we live, our attention should unremittingly be fixed on tbe safety of cur country- Foe a people who are free, aud who mean to remain go,n well organised and Binned Militia is their best security. It is, therefore, in cumbent on us at every meeting to revise the condition of the Militia, and to ask ourselves if it is prepared to repel a powerful enemy at every point of out territories ex posed to invasion. Some of the States have paid a laud able attention to this object, but every degree Of neglect is to be found among.others. Congress alone haying the power to produce an uniform state of preparation in this great organ of defence, the interests which they so deeply feel in their own and their country's security, w ill pre sent this as among the most important objects of their de liberation. Under the Acts of March 11, and April 23, re specting arms, the difficulty of procuring them from a-broad, during the present situation anil dispositions of F.utope, induced us to direct uur whole efforts to the means of -internal supply the public factories have, therefore, been enlarged, additional machineries- erected, and, in proportion as artificers van Ik- found or. formed, their ef fect, already more than doubled, may be increased so as to keep pace with the .yearly increase'of the Militia, The annual sums appropriated by the latter Act, have lu-eft directed to the encouragement of private factories of arms and.contracts have been entered into with indi vidual undertakers, to nearly the amount of the first year's appropriation. f. . I ' The suspension of our foreign commerce, produced by the injustice of the Belligerent Powers, and the con sequent losses and sacrifices of pur Oifivens, are subjects of just cooeern. The situation info w hich we -have ' thus been forced,.hag impelled ustoapply .a portion of our in dustry and capital to internal manufactures and improve ments, Tlic extent of this.couvecdon is.d.atly.ineyt'Hsiqg, and little doubt remains that'the establishments formed and forming, will, under the. auspices of cheaper orate-rials and subsistence, the freedon of labour from taxation with us, and of protecting duties'and jKoltjlli.tions.ilte-come permanent. The commerce with the ludiajis, jdo, within our own boundaries, is likely Jo reserve ab.unjlint aliment from t e same internal source, a d wil segpfeltp them peace aud the progress of eiviiigjttiup, pud statbe.r by practices hostile-to both. ... J ' The accounts of the receipts gnd.qjspenditiites.ddcmg t e year, epding ou the 30th day of September last, being uot yet made up a correct statement w ill hert alti r be transmitted from the Treasury, In the meantime, it is ascertained, that the receipts Save amounted to neat eighteen millions of dollars, whicit, w ith the eight mil lions ami 'a half in the Treasury at the beginning of the year, have enabled us,' after meeting the current demands and interest incurred, jo pay two millious three hundred thousand dollars of the principal of our funded debt, and left us in the Treasury on that day, near fourteeu mil lions oF dollars of tiles. 1 , five millions three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, will he accessary to pay what st ill he due on the 1st of Jauuary next, which will complete the reimbursement of the 3 percent, stock. These payments, w ith those made m the six years and a hall preceding, will have extinguished 33,530,OuO dollars of rite princi pal of the funded debt, being the whole which could be paid or purchased within tlte limits of the law and of- our contracts and tbe amount of principal thus discharged, w ill have liberated the revenue front about i'.tHKI,Otill of dollars interest, aud added that sum annually to the dis posable surplus. The probable accumulation of the sur. pluses of revenue beyond what can be applied to the paymeut of tlte pubjit debt whenrferthe freedom and safety of our commerce shall be restored, merits the con sideration'of Congress. Shall it ha productive in the public vaults J Shall the revenue be reduced l or shall it uot rattier be appropriated to the improvement of roads, canals, rivers, education, and other great foundations of prosperity and union, under tbe powers which Congress may already possess, Or such amendment of the constitu tion as may be approved by the Slates while uncertain of the course of things, the time may he advantageously employed in obtaining the powers necessary for a system of improvement, should that be thought best. Availing myself of this, the last occasion which w ill occur, of addressing Hie two Houses of Legislature at their meeting, I cannot omit the expression of my sincere gratitude, for the repeated proofs of confidence mani fested to me by themselves and their predecessors, since my call to the administration., and tire many indulgeucics experienced at their hand. the . same grateful acknow ledgments are due to my follow-citizens generally, whose support has been my great encouragement under all en burntssnleott, In the transaction of their business, I can-pot have escaped error- it is incident tb our imperfect nature hut I may say With truth, my errors have been of the understanding, not of intention and that tlte ad vancement of their fights and interests has been the con stant motive for every measure Qn these considerations I solicit their indulgence. Looking forward with anxiety to their futtire destinies, f trust, that in their .steady cha racter, unshaken by ditBeiiltiSf, in their love of liberty, obedience to law, and support of the public authorities, J see a sure guarantee of the permanence of our .Republic t and, retiring frpra the charge of their affairs, I carry w ith uie the consolation of a firm persuasion, that Heaven.has in store fdr our beloved Country long ages tp. cento pf prosperity and happiness. ,'t'Aba. S, l8 l8 v ' f Ta.. JsvTsasox.' PROVINCIAL IN TULL lGJEN Cj K Thursday se'iuiighfabo t eight olclock in the w ntny, as Mr, jlad eon, of Dartford, wits returning borne t'roay Rochester, fn-a single Mse chaise, aseumpaDteiJ by Uis. servapt, he was stopped Ivy two footpads between, fitayeU IfjU and Foal Stough, near Gfcenhilhe, One of the rob, herd seized 1 the horse's head, the other, with a pistol iq hi . hand,, wj-nt to the chaise, and with some horrid oathgqg, ciaimed,.- your life or your tuoneyi Mr, Budgeou ris pfied, i e had no, money- for them, ami nous lie give. 'Tiie demand for money Was. repeated Wlib tap .threat tq fire, Mr. Budgeon no giving PH3t-m.W!#ji .yhe. villain, at the chaise sttuck several violent blows. wUlqa. f
578 THE EXAMINER. Sept. 13, what sort of house they would build for a poor clergyman with 150 . a year, what a palace they must raise for a bishop with his 10,000 . his cathedral must be as a mere chapel to it. But as the old proverb says, Wilful waste makes woful want and the consequence of all the magnificence of the Commission may be found in this case, example of a class, narrated by the Times-a source of injury or offence. I repeat, let the folly of re senting particular musical tunes be abandoned for ever. We shall see whether Mr O'Connell is more suc cessful in this mode of disposing of signs of offence than Harry of Exeter. As the surplice is an ob noxious symbol of party, let it be worn by all, said the Bishop of Exeter, and it ceases to be the otten-sive sign. Mr O'Connell proposes to dispose of party tunes in the same way, Join in them, and nobody can consider them a source of injury or offence. If this bold project succeed, the duet of the orange and green must surely disso ve the union. What can stand against the Boyne Water sunv by the united voices of Orangemen and Repealers. If France at the same time should renew the singing of the Marseillais the case of England between the cross fire would be desperate indeed. _ , , _ , , It is equally novel and satisfactory to find that Catholics as Catholics have no longer any claim to make, and that therefore they are free to sing with their Protestant brethren. The Protestant Church in Catholic Ireland is then no bar to the union of voices in the Boyne Water. For an old song Ireland compounds for her grievances and, sitting under her established yoke, will take the second part in the old tunes of ascendancy. From these exalted political views Mr O'Con nell suddenly passes to his dogs and their incapa cities. He complains of a total refusal to lie on the part of the scent. As it is not likely that Mr O'Connell would amuse the Repeal Association with matters relating to the noses of his hounds, we must suppose that the passage is allegorical. I never knew weather in which the scent so totally re fuses to lie. Although rising at six o'clock in the morning, while the due so spelt in the Times report is yet heaviYy on the ground, I find the dogs quite unable to hunt-my excellent pack were, for the first time, totally defeated-and curiously enough, it is only by remaining out till four o'clock in the afternoon that the dogs are able to develop their instinct, and to hunt as usual. By the scent we understand the game of Repeal, by the pack the instruments of Mr O'Connell's sport as for the due so heavy, it can only signify the rent, which is beginning to spoil the scent and form the minister ' that the Commissioners are wholly un altogether the conclusion is, that Mr O'Connell is i able to fix a time for making any grant in this case,' the making very sorry work late for very little game. THE BANKRUPT ECCLESIASTICAL COMMISSION. When we learn from the Bishop of Salisbury that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners cannot fulfil The church of St Nicholas is situated in the village of East Grafton, in the parish of Great Bedwin, Wiltshire. It is as pretty a village church as may be seen in England, built in the Norman style, and affording accommodation to live hundred persons its indefatigable minister is de servedly beloved, the attendance of the villagers most re gular, and their pious and well-ordered demeanour on the Sabbath sufficiently touching to melt any heart less obdu rate than that of an Ecclesiastical Commissioner. This church was built upon the understanding that certain sums should be advanced towards its endowment both by the Commissioners and by the patron of the parish in which the church stands. As a condition of the advance on the part of the Commissioners, the patron was called upon to relin quish his right of patronage to St Nicholas, and to suffer it to pass into the hands of the vicar of Great Bedwin. The right was relinquished upon such an understanding. Upon the faith of the Commissioners the present minister under took the cure of the village, and from the moment that he commenced his duties until the present time -a period of nearly two years-not one farthing has he been able to procure from the Commissioners as a return for his services, and as a fulfilment of their own sacred engage ment. His applications for payment have been numerous and respectful. The minister at length, unable to continue in the performance of hi3 duties unless some steps are taken to secure to him the very small stipend upon which he has consented to labour, applies to the Bishop of the diocese, his natural protector, and a Commissioner. What is the Bishop's answer ? We are accused of unfairly representing the Commissioners. Mr Blackburn tells us that they are prosperous and thriving he defies any minister to stand forward and say, ' that aught has failed him of all that has been pledged to him.' He calls upon us to publish a long letter of details to prove the wickedness of our charges. We comply with his request and, having done so, we proceed to give the Bishop's answer to the minister of St Nicholas. t Nothing can be done,' says his Lordship, 'because the Com missioners' affairs are as embarrassed as they can be ! ' De serted by the Bishop-deserted by the Commissioners, who will not even hold out a promise of future payment-dis missed by ' the respected Secretary,' who is directed to in-making very sorry work of it, hunting early and clergyman has recourse to the liberality of the noble patron. - J J Let the noble patron refuse to pay the debt of the Commis-I sioners-and in what respect is he accountable for it ?-and then St Nicholas Church is closed, and its hundreds of members dismissed from its altar. THE SOUTHWARK ELECTION. The election of Sir W. Molesworth by a great their engagements because their affairs are as majority is highly satisfactory, not only as it places embarrassed as they can be, we are reminded of in Parliament a man of superior abilities and attain-that beautiful instance of their discreet manage- ments, and of sound liberal opinions esses to be guided in all glebe house. A thousand pounds was about the things by the book which tells us when one cheek sum' requisite, one half of which, according to rule, is stricken to turn the other-this disciple of Chris-should have been furnished by the clergyman, the other by the Commission. The Commissioners altered the conditions of the sum twice or thrice, raising it each time, and finally fixing it at about 800 . tor the moiety, instead of 500 . The poor clergyman could neither afford the outlay, nor to keep up, with his slender income, the style of house which the Commissioners stipulated for, with library, drawing room, dining room, c., suited to a man of about 1,000 . a year, and which they would have forced on one of 150 . We do not profess to be exact in the figures, but this is the outline of the case. Can we wonder now that a body disposed to be so profuse in its expenditure is reduced to bank ruptcy ? And as Falstaff was not only witty him self, but the cause of wit in others, so this Eccle siastical Commission is .not only bankrupt itself, hut was calculated to be, aud doubtless has been, the cause of bankruptcy in others. Had they induced the clergyman whose case Lord Radnor made known to build the mansion so preposte rously exceeding his means, he would probably by this time have been as insolvent as his dignified misleading superiors in the Commission. There was a curious ingenuity in making the two ends of extravagance meet in the instance referred to the Commissioners insisting on ad vancing more than was necessary to compel the poor clergyman to defray more than he could afford, and entailing the further imprudence of having to keep up a house too large for his very small income. With such an example as this before us we cannot be surprised that the Com missioners' affairs are as much embarrassed as they can be. They have, indeed, shown aptitudes for arriving at the ne plus ultra of mismanage ment. If there had been wanted a body to show people how to live beyond their means and to ruin themselves, one better constituted for the purpose than this Ecclesiastical Commission could not have been appointed. We now see why it is that Bishops are so rich. It was happily preordained that they should be so rich to enable them to bear the management of the Ecclesiastical Commission. When we find fore appointment to experimental squadrons or other commands. The admirals will be put to bed at a certain hour on a fixed night, and from that time an account will be kept of their rest and activity how long they lay in bed, how long they were rising, what period at a stretch they were able to stand on their legs without or with the aid of stick or crutches, how many yards they could see without or with glasses, what sounds, and of what loudnesg, they could hear without or with ear trumpets. There will be stairs as high as those of the companion stairs of a first-rate, and an exact record will be kept of the number of times a dav if any, the admirals can mount them, and of the time occupied in each enterprise. There will also be a promenade the length of a first-rate's quarter deck, and the number of turns the admirals respectively take, if any, and the time occupied, will be noted. A balance will then be struck of the different abilities and infirmities, just as with the points in which ships excel or fail. There are ships that sail ill and lie-to well, and there are admirals that do the same, and one will lie-to for a month or six weeks at a stretch without straining, head to pillow. In the log of the Experimental Hospital such eutries as these will appear -August 15th.-Signal made for admirals to get out of bed, dress, mount and walk the quarter deck, and exercise sight on the fore-top gallant sail. If an admiral in mounting the companion stairs has the misfortune to tumble, the order is, that upon that accident ail shall return to then-berths, and the sleeping order be resumed. On deck, if any admiral's cocked hat be carried away by stress of weather, all ifte to be turned down below, for fear of fresh misadventure, and the experiments cease for that day, nightcaps being resumed. The Admiralty does not mean to insist that admirals shall be able to climb to the deck and walk it, or sit it, or stand it for that matter. It would, indeed, prefer such qualifications, if attain able but if not, and if there be the choice of an ad miral always in bed, and one who is sometimes out of it, the Admiralty will choose the latter. So for an experimental squadron it will not require that the admiral shall be able to see to the bowsprit end without or with glasses but if it has the elec tion of one who can see the fore-top while another can see only as far as the main-top, the Admiralty, cceteris paribus, will prefer the admiral with the superior organs of sight. The admirals in the Experimental Hospital will be allowed respectively the aid of four nurses each, to be divided into watches of the starboard and larboard nurses, and to relieve each other at the usual periods. tian meekness declares that it was Sir W. Moles worth's sarcastic mention of him as Reverend that provoked him to the retaliation of Infidel. It was thus confessedly prompted only by revenge. Un deniably Mr Miall deserves the name of reverend as little as Sir W. Molesworth that of infidel. THE QUEEN AND THE DEER SLAUGHTER. Extract of a letter, dated Gotha, September 1, addressed to a gentleman in London -'This the deer killing was very shocking. The Queen wept. I saw large tears in her eyes and her Majesty tells me that she with difficulty kept the chair during what followed. When the Queen saw the otter hunt in Scotland, the pity that she naturally felt at the death of the animal was counterbalanced by a knowledge, of his propensities, so that it is almost as meritorious to destroy an otter as it is a snake but this was a totally dif ferent case nor is her Majesty yet recovered. For the Prince, tire deer were too numerous, and must be killed. This was the German method and no doubt the reigning Duke will distribute them to his people, who will thank Prince Albert for providing them venison.' -Standard. The deer must be killed, perhaps so sheep must be killed, bullocks must be killed, but that is no reason why the Queen should be taken to the shambles. Her Majesty wept and could hardly keep her seat during the loathsome slaughter, but why was she taken to a scene so shocking to her fee ings? Whose fault was it that she was so paiped ? As for the otter, pity for his death was coun terbalanced by a knowledge of his propensities. The otter's propensities are given him by nature, and they incline his tooth greatly to fish, but could that evil appetite reconcile the Queen to the wor rying of him by the hounds, aud the impaling, which it is so shocking to see even in a picture? And if destroying otters and snakes be so meri torious as the courtly writer asserts, yet the merit may be questioned of destroying either the one or the other by torture. The courtier, so hard on snakes, ought to have more fellow-feeling with crawling creatures. EXPERIMENT BEFORE EXPERIMENT. It is the intention of the Admiralty to establish an infirmary, in which trial may be made of the bodily infirmities and incapacities of admirals be THE AGRICULTURAL LABOURER. Letter V. TO SIR ROBERT PEEL. Sir Robert,-I repeat that I have not exaggerated in asserting that one-tenth of the crops of this country are de stroyed by the game and the vermin protected in the covers. Latterly the system of planting has been different from what it used to be. We used to have preserves of several hundred acres in which the game found shelter, and of course did great damage to the adjacent crops but now we have patches and copses of woodland in every three or four fields, 6mall in size, but sufficient for the shelter and breeding of the game-a sort of pen in which game is folded, ready to consume the produce of every field, so that none should escape. The foxes have been lately all de stroyed, and the country has no longer been hunted as it used to be, although some hounds still are kept. The foxes were the farmers' friends in this county, as they kept down the rabbits but since game has been sold, they have been found to interfere too much with the profits end although no landlord will admit that he has ordered a fox to be killed, it is certain that they have almost wholly dis appeared. Formerly, when game was reared only for sport, foxes were respected, being equally entitled to protection as affording another variety of amusement to others but now that game is a source of profit, that gentlemanly feel ing appears to have been lost. From the want of statistics, it is impossible to say what proportion of the land in the country is at present in plan tation and wood. The total number of acres in Norfolk are stated to be 1,338,880, of whichit is computed that there are in arable, meadow, and marsh, 1,082,567. This leaves a balance of 256,813 acres of land for the sites of towns, roads, plan tations, and waste land. How much of this may be in wood and plantation, it is impossible to say for want of statistics but admitting that there is one-half, we have 128,156 acres of land untilled in this county alone, and that with a popu lation suffering from want of employment. And now let me prove the truth of my assertion, that the preservation of game is very injurious to the agricultural labourer, as in the first place it raises the price of his food. I have before expressed my opinion that whatever benefit might occur to the nation from the free trade in corn, it would not prove of advantage to the agricultural labourer, as with the permanent fall of the price of corn his wages would be lowered in proportion. But if corn could be ren dered cheaper, and the English fanner not lose by the 
NO- 53. SiMdA Y DECEMBER 35, 1809. the political examiner. jParty is liie madness of many fur the gain of 1 a few. .SWIl'T. No. 5d. - sssaarm RETROSPECT OF THE YEAR. Another year is past, and neither has England reple nished her renown, nor tile world obtained its. repose. The spirit of freedom,, which nations conspired to crush in France, and which conceded itself first into a spirit of horror and next into a spirit of vengeance, has long become the very soul of a tyrannical ambi tion -an awful proof how easily obstructed virtue is ohaug-ed into the mischievous passions, and how fear fully these passions grow powerful from gratification, 'flic greatest misfortune of the age is, that the causes which first gave opportunity to the rising ambition of France are still existing in the full facility of their corruption tu make way for it and if we just cast our jes from one nation to another, we shall behold the same host of feeble princes , corrupt cowls, ami tm-f. tllmg subjects, that haiye diino so much for the great eheroy, and that will do still mores until some of his opposers shall begin the great work of seff-reforma-tuiri, until resoui-ees are cleared from he obstructions of the interested, aud councils from the corruptions of the place-hunting. The first object of interest in the retrospec t of the year is Spain. There our hopes were destined to brighter beyond any former promise, arid.there to be darkened beyond recovery by the very holders of the sunshine. It is certain that we have been grossly de ceived in the patriotism of Spaniards, and even had we not been deceived, we have pursuer! treasures, or ra ther have exhibited a want of pursuit, which was suffi cient to betray the best cause in the world. We he sitate, our enemies determine we delay and make flourishes about the edges, they dash to the heart of • Lings lastly, we are heretics, and they tell the Spa niards they are Papists, and we shall seen hear how ' nmeh this single distinction has atchieved for our eue-luies and ruined.for us. Of all corruptions, a corrupt ' superstition is the most mimical to political good for men who arc slaves to shadows will be slaves to any thing. The chance of Spain.is gone, and England has ow no chance remaining but that of sound reforma tion, of stripping it's constitution of its gewgaws and gilt fetters, and restoring it to that vigorous and naked troth, in which it faculties shall be asfreeked, Us arm -unshackled, its heart unrepressed, and it shall bound forth, like the ancient young warrior out of ins bath, to beat down a host of invading enemies. The Emperor of Russia, from a frightened ally, has become a fond slave of the Frenchman. Bona parte says- Gome,''.-and he Cometh.'' He says, Go, - and he gocth. This stupid Rus sian dops not see that he is a mere tool of France, even in his war with Sweden and that Bonaparte In that war is at. once sowing discoid all over the North, and weakening the-Bowers who ought to be most united in strength. He thinks, perhaps, that he has gained Finland -as if a slave of France had any possessions of its pwn 1 The Kino of Sweden, though as superior t Alexander as manhood to. childhood, has talked in too high a tone, and relied- too much upon English expeditions, to give us any great idea of his good sense. What he has lost to Russia, Jho will never re cover lor Bonaparte would provent it, were it only to mortify a young King who has opposed him. In bis unequal contest with Russia, a mortal blow has been girc.'t to his influence in Europe and Sweden wilj be aMRlpn proof how little real strength there is in a ijid pry monarchy when the ruler is hot a man of genius. The Great Gustavos made Sweden pow erful, as the Great Frederick made Prussia y but what, are Sweden and Prussia without a ..Great Gus tavo i and a Great Frederick f T e latter country, we sec, has become a mere house of call for Bona parte's soldiers and politicians and the poor fec-bla King, who could keep neither Ids word with ns, nor the secret of his country's weakness from Fiance, has at last nothing to keep at all, Austria ,is thus surrounded by tile vassals of her greatest enemy. She cannot move against France, and yet every delay brings her nearer to bondage j for there is little doubt, if Spain becomes entirely-French, that, he could overwhelm her in an instant, unless a new tone has been given to the Austrian military .cha racter, a circumstance that is rarely compassed by one mau or by the most ardent desire of military revenge, unlew the civil character of the state has been altered before it. The petty states of Germany would attack the Emperor Francis from fear of Bonaparte, and the more important ones, which have lately, become monarchies, from ambition. Bavaria would have a double motive the pride, of her new greatness, and the old hereditary jealousy against the House of Aus tria, which has deprived her so often of tho.fiaipir
FOR RIO DE JANEIRO, Tlit fine new Coppered Ship FALCON, W . R.usbeck, Commander. Will positively sail the first week in February, two-thirds of the Cargo being already engaged. Has excellent Accom modation for Passengers. For Freight and Passage apply to Mr. JAS. HARTLEY, Of Rio de Janeiro, at Wakefield. EDW. THOMPSON, or J THOS. WHARTON, J Hull, Jan. 1, 1827. Household Furniture, Glass and China, #c. c. On HULL ESTATE EXCHANGE, REGISTER, AUCTION OFFICE, 29, Silver-Street, Hull. T HIS spacious Room, adapted, by its central situation, for the purposes of SALE and EXCHANGE of LAND and HOUSES, will be Opened for the use of Proprietors, Solici tors, and Agents of Estates, and the Public, on Tuesday, January 1st, 1828, upon the principle of the Auction' Mart, in London, having similar internal arrangements for the Ex hibition of Advertisements, Maps, and Plans, for Public In spection s to which Official Attendance will be given, from Ten in the Morning until Four in the A fternoon, not only to promote, by attractive power, Investments of Capital and the Transfer of Property, but to render, by the same auxiliary aid. equal facilities in the Occupation and Letting of Estates between Landlord and Tenant. Prospectuses may be had at the Office of Mr. Angell, Manager and Auctioneer. HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, -c. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, nr HENDRY Sr HYDE, By Order of the Assignees of Mr. Edward Johnson, No. 2, Cent-per-Cent-Strcet, Hull, On Monday, the 1th Day of January, 1828, A LL the Neat and Valuable HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, comprising good Mahogany Chairs Dining, Card and other Tables Mahogany Four Post and Tent Bedsteads and Hangings Feather Beds, Mattresses and Blankets Chests of Drawers, Washstands, and Chamber Chairs Kidderminster and Scotch Carpets Fenders and Fire Irons set of Tea China, Blue Printed Dinner Service, sundry Glass, a few Lots of Plate, Linen and Books, with Kitchen Articles, c. Also, a PEW in St. John's Church, No. 102, in the Steeple Gallery and a TICKET in the Lyceum Reading Koom. VALUABLE WAREHOUSES, HALT. KILN, TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY HENDRY If HYDE, . ' By Order of the Assignees of Thomas Williamson, a Bankrupt, At the George Inn, in Whitefriargate, Hull, on Monday the 1 -ith January, 1828, at Four o'clock in the Afternoon, T WO spacious, commodious, and newly-erccted WARE HOUSES, and a MALT-KILN, situate on the East Side of Lime-street, in the Groves, near Hull, and adjoining Brewery there, known by the name of Williamson's Brewery. Also, a Plot of GROUND, fronting Lime-street aforesaid, and two other Carriage Roads, now used as a Garden, and adjoining the said Warehouses and Malt Kiln. For particulars apply to the Auctioneers, or to Mr. J. C. Richardson, or Mr. Dryden, Solicitors, Hull. BUILDING !c GARDEN GROUND. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY J. KIRKUS, At the House of Mr. Wm, Allison, Angel Inn, Cottingham, on Wednesday, January 16th, 1828, at Four o'clock in the Afternoon, on such Conditions as shall be then and there produced,J S EVEN Acres of Rich Grass GROUND, situate in the most central and pleasant part of Cottingham, being part of the Estate belonging to the late Nicholas Sykes, Esq. It is divided into Lots to suit Purchasers 5 Lots are Freehold, 11 Copyhold, in the Manor of Cottingham Powis, fine sjaaUund certain and 3 in the Manor of Cottingham Rectory. Further Particulars may be known, and a Plan of the Estate seen, on application to T. Stather, Academy, Cotting ham or to the Auctioneer, No. 16, Humber Duck Walls, Hull. Cottingham, December 29, 1827, MAHOGANY AND LOGWOOD TO BE SOLD BY PUBLIC AUCTION, On Wednesday, the 16th January, 1828, on the Humber Dock Quay, T HE Entire CARGO of the Mulgrave Castle, J. Whitfield, Master, from Honduras, consisting of about 260 Logs MAHOGANY, and 45 Tons LOGWOOD. Catalogues may be had ten days previous to the Sale, by applying to RICHD. TOTTIE, the Importer or to HENDRY HYDE, Auctioneers. Hull, Dec. 13, 1827. SPANISH AND AFRICAN MAHOGANY. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY THOS. STANILAND, On the Dock C ompany's Ground on the Fast Side of the Humber Dock, Hull, on Wednesday the 16th of January, 1828, immediately after the Sale of the Honduras Wood, S IXTY-THREE very choice Spanish MAHOGANY LOGS, and Five excellent African DITTO. For Particulars and Catalogues apply to the Auctioneer. INDIA SILK HANDKERCHIEFS. F iRTY Pieces ofBANDANAS, of good patterns and qua lity, for Sale by Private Contract at Mr. Stamp's Rooms, Excise-Office Buildings. Hull, Dec. 29, 1827. SEVILLE CHINA ORANGES. TXTOOLLF.N NETTING, to Preserve FRUIT TREES from the Weather and Insects. Manufactured and Sold by James Slater, Yeadon, near Leeds. All Letters will be punctually attended to. SHIP-OWNERS' SOCIETY. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY MR. ANGELL, Tuesday, THIS DAY, the lit January, 1828, in his Gre l Room, 29, Silver-Street, Hull, at Eleven o'clock, S UNDRY choice well-made Articles of New and Second-Hand HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, removed for the con venience of Sale, consisting of an excellent Grecian Rosewood Card Tabie, on four Claws and Lion Castors, neatly Pannelled with Brass Lines a Mahogany Grecian Sofa, in Satin Hair Cloth two Tent Bedsteads an excellent Two-Drawer Dress ing Glass a pair Mahogany Pillar and Claw Tables a pair Card Tables Glass-cut Lustres, ditto Decanters, and an elegant Tea and Coffee Service of China, and sundry other Articles. Also, a dozen pieces of IRISH LINEN, of excellent quality, fit for Country Trade and Twenty Boxes of St. MICHAEL'S ORANGES. THE INDUSTRY SLOOP, 55 Tons Burthen, TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, RY MR. ANGELL, On Saturday the 5th January 1828, at Two o'clock, at Henry Hilkin's, Full Measure, 8, High-Street, LL that good SlooptheINDUSTRY, well known in the River Trade between Hull, Sheffield, Doncaster, c. with all her Standing and Running Rigging, Sails, Anchors, Cables, Boat, and every other Stores necessary for Navigating the Rivers. This Ves sel has lately undergone a thorough repair, and will be Sold, together with all Stores, in one Lot. She is now lying in the Old Dock Basin, and may be viewed on application to the Owner on board John Ella , or at the Auctioneer's Office, 29, Silver-Street, Hull. T HE Fifth General ANNUAL MEETING of the SOCIETY of SHIP-OWNERS will be held in the Guildhall, on Wednesday the 9th of January next, at Eleven o'clock, to audit the Accounts of the Society, and to fill up vacancies in the Committee, when the Members, and all Ship-Owners, are requested to attend. JAMES K1ERO WATSON, Chairman of the Committee. The Members of the Society will DINE together in the Afternoon of the same Day, and such Merchants and Ship-Owners as intend to favour them with their company, are requested to leave their names with the Secretary, or at the Bar of the Kingston Hotel, on or before Saturday the 5th of January. Hull, Dec. 28, 1827. Desirable Building-Ground in Drypool. ON SALE BY PRIVATE CONTRACT, T HE remaining very desirable Lots of BUILDIN-GROUND, situate in the newly formed Street called Popple-Street, Drypool. This situation is likely to become very advantageous from the intended New Road to Hedon passing through Popple-street. For particulars apply at the Office of Mr. Dryden, Solicitor, Hull. Hull, Dec. 21, 1827. T HE remaining part of the Manley's CARGO, say 150 Chests and 50 Boxes, are on SALE at 40s. per Chest, and 21s. per Box. Ar this Fruit is in fine condition, and of good quality, ao early application is desirable. F. STAMP. Excise-Office Buildings, Hull, Dec. 31, 1827. COLONIAL BRANDY. T HIS Article, which lias justly been considered the nearest to French Brandy of any distilled in this Country, is now on Sale at this place. It is not made from Com, but distilled over again from Colonial Spirits, and such is its near resemblance to the best Cognac, that even Dealers in the latter have been unable to distinguish between them. It is Sold in quantities not less than Two Gallons, at 16s. 6d. Gallon, Money, by Mr. Francis Hall, No. 5, North Walls and by F. 6tarnp, Auctioneer, at the Excise-Office Buildings. N.B. Considerable allowance to Buyers of large quantities. V TRADE sale of censers. TO CABINET-MAKERS, c. I N the course of the present Month, of which due notice will be given, Mr. W. Pearce will submit to AUCTION, at his Sale-Room, No. 40, Whitefriargate, an extensive and valuable Stock of ROSE and ZEBRA WOOD, in Planks, Spanish and Honduras Mahogany VENEERS, of the finest quality, Figure, Mottle, and Colour, which will be put up in Lots suited to the Trade. N. B. Approved Bills at four Months' date will be taken in payment. VALUABLE ESTATES at SOUTH CAVE, ELLERKER and BROMFLEET, in the COUNTY of YORK. V _ TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, At the Kingston-JIotel, late Dog and Duck, Scale-Lane, in the Town of Kingston-upon-Ilull, on Tuesday, the 8th Day of January, 1828, at Eleven o'clock in the Forenoon, in the following or such other Lots, and subject to such Conditions of Sale, us shall be then and there determined upon, if not sooner disposed of by Private Contract, of which due notice will be given,J T HE following very Valuable and desirable Freehold and Copyhold ESTATES, most pleasantly situated in or near the Market Town of South Cave, and the Villages of Ellerker and Bromfleet, in the East Riding of the County of York, consisting of and containing by a' recent survey, the following quantities -viz. SOUTH CAVE. Lot 1.-A well-built MESSUAGE or Dwelling-House, with the Homestead and Garth behind the same, near and on the West side of the Parish Church of South Cave, containing 1a. 2r. 32b. Lot 2.-One Close of Arable LAND, most pleasantly situated on the North side of and fronting to the High Road leading from South Cave to Beverley, called the Little Wold or East Field, and containing 13a. In. 20p. Lot 3.-Two Closes of Rich oldSwarth LAND, adjoining each other, in the Ruffham Field, on the South side of the Ruffltam Road the one containing 9a. 1r. 38p., and the other 6a. 29p., with the Stable at the South end of one of the said Closes, and an excellent healthy and very thriving Plantation at the East and West corners or angles of the North end of the other of the said Closes, and respectively containing 15a. 3b. 15p. Lot 4.-One other Close of Rich Pasture LAND, in Ruff ham Field, at the South end of Lot 3, but adjoining to and fronting the Ings Road, with a beautiful, healthy, and well thriving Plantation, at the East corner or angle thereof, next to and fronting the Ings Road, and a certain other Road lead ing to the Ruffliam Road, and containing 12a. 1b. 12p. Lot 5.-One other Close of Arable LAND, adjoining the Ings Road in part, and the Sands Road in other part, called the Ings and Sand, and containing 14a. 22p. Lot 6.-One other Close of Swarth LAND, on the South side of and fronting to the Road leading from the West end of South Cave, to a certain Road called Wallingfen Road, also called the Ings, and containing 4a. 2r. 27p. Lot 7.-Two other Closes of Arable and Pasture LAND, adjoining each other, on the South side of and fronting to New Field Road, the one containing 6a. 2n. 13p., and the other 7a. 3p. and called the New Field Closes, containing together 13a. 2n. 16p. Lot 8.-One other Close of Swarth LAND, called Walling fen Close, on the North side of a certain private Road which separates this Lot from the following Lot, and containing 4a. 1r. 13p. Lor 9.-One other Close of old Swarth LAND, also called Wallingfen Close, on the South side of the said last mentioned private Road, separating this from the preceding Lot, and containing 7a. 23p. ELLERKER. Lot 10.-All that COTTAGE, with the Barn, Yard, and Garden, together with the Paddock, Dove Cotes, and Planta. tion behind the same, on the South side of and frouting the Town street of Ellerker,at the North end thereof, and fronting Road leading from Ellerker to Brantingham, at the Southend thereof, now in the occupation of William Wriggles' worth, and containing together 3a. 1r. 36p. Lot 11.-All that COTTAGE, with the Barn and Garden thereto adjoining and belonging, fronting the Town street on the North, now in the occupation of W. I'Anson, and con taining 29p. Lot 12.-One other Close of Arable LAND, near to and on the West side of the Sands Road, called Claverham, and containing 4a. 32p. Lot 13.-One other Close of Arable LAND, at the South West end of the Sands Road called the Clunkers, including the Road on the East side thereof, arid the Plantation at the South end thereof, and containing 10a. 2r. 23p. Lot 14.-One other Close of Arable LAND, called Gare Butts, on the West side of and fronting the Turnpike Road leading from Brough to South Cave on the East, and the High Road leading from Brantingham to Ellerker on the North, and containing 4a. 2b. 30p. BROMFLEET. Lot 15.-Two other Closes of Arable LAND, called Brom fleet Closes, adjoining each other, extending from the River Humber in a Northerly direction to Bromfleet Beck, the one containing 5a. 3n. 25p.,andthe other 10a. 2r. 22p.andcon taining together 16a. 3b. 22p. Be the same several quantities more or less. The whole of the Estates are Freehold, excepting Lots 2, 5, and 7, and 1a. 1b. 7p. of Lot 4, which are Copyhold of the Manor ofFaxfleetin South Cave, and are now in the occupa tion of Mr. Wilkinson Ayre, the owner. Part of the Purchase Money may remain on Mortgage. John Tindale, the occupier of Lot 1, will shew the Premises and for further Particulars, apply to Mr. Wilkinson Ayre, North Ferriby or to Mr. Wm. Walmsley, Solicitor, No. 4, Parliament-Street, Hull or Messrs. Walmsley Burland, Solicitors, South Cave. PHOENIX FIRE-OFFICE, Established 1782. T HE Board of Directors of this Office do hereby give Notice, that they have Reduced the Premium upon Country In surances, with certain exceptions and that the same will henceforward be charged only as follows, viz. 1 st Class-Is. 6d. per Cent. 2nd Class -2s. 6d. per Cent. 3rd Class-4s. 6d. per Cent, being, upon the greater portion of Country Insurances, an abatement of 25 per Cent, per Annum. Renewal Receipts for Policies falling due at Christmas are now in the hands of the several Agents, The Hope Fire Insurance Company, the Eagle Fire Insur ance Company, the Surry and Sussex, the Beacon, the British Commercial, and JEgis Insurance Companies having all de clined business, Policies of those Offices amounting to £300 and upwards, will be accepted by this Company, without any charge of Stamps. The Agents for this Company, for the County of York, arc Mi. JOHN HILL, 18, Parliament-street, Hull. Mr. John Gardham ----- Beverley Mr. Robert Smithson - • • - York Mr. G. Shaw Leeds Mrs. Susannah Todd ----- Northallerton Mr. Jacob Smith --•••• Thirsk Mr. John Britain -••••- Ripon Messrs. C. J. White - - - Doncaster Mr. Robert Ward ---.-- Scarborough Mr. J. W. Broadbent ... - Sheffield Mr. Thomas Eowman ----- Richmondm Wigney ----- Huddersfield Mr. William Fleck ------ Rotherham Mr. John Birley ------ Bawtry N. B. Agents are wanted in the other Market Towns of this County. Academy, Bourne-freet, French's-Oardens. WILLIAM HOBSON M OST respectfully begs leave to inform his Friends and the Public in general, that he has taken and entered upon the Academy, situate in Miltori's-Square, Bourne-Street, which has been occupied for the last twenty years by Mr. Revell, where he intends teaching Reading Grammatically '. an expeditious System of Writing a Masterly current Hand together with Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Mensuration, Draw ing, Stenography, See. in all their various branches. He also embraces this opportunity of assuring those Friends who may place their Children uuder his care, that the same line of conduct, and a similar method of Tuition to that which secured to his late friend, Mr. Wm. Annison, whose School, during the whole of Mr. A.'s last illness, he so satis factorily conducted, such a distinguished share of public favour, will he unceasingly employed.for the improvement and durable advantage of his Pupils. Bourne-street, January 1, 1828. If The Academy will open for the reception of Day and Evening Scholars on the 7th day of January instant. Terms, c. may he known on application at the Academy, or at No. 2, Sumer's Town, Holderness Road. No Entrance charges required. Mr. T. PINNEY, Portrait Painter, R ETURNS his most grateful thanks to his Friends and , Patrons for past favours, and begs to inform them, that he continues Painting PORTRAITS, from Five to Twenty-five Guineas each and respectfully invites an inspection, at his Lodgings, 14, Carlisle-Street, or at T. Topping's, the Hull Packet and Humber Mercury Office, 51, Lowgate, Hull. BREGGAZZI, A Native of Italy, Teacher of Italian X Drawing, R ETURNS his most grateful thanks to the Ladies and Gentl men of Hull, Beverley, and Hedon, for the kind patronage received, and begs to inform them that every exer tion on liis part shall be used to merit a continuance of their kind support. N. B. PORTRAITS Painted in various Styles and Sizes. Terms for Portraits and Teaching, at his Residence, No. 2, Carlisle-Street. ✓ Kin SCHC ig-'s Court, near ill SIC ACADEMY, ,u r of Church-Lane, High-Street. w HARRISON, impressed with feelings of gratitude, desires to inform his Friends and the Public, that his Establishment will he Ke-opened for the reception of Youth of both Sexes, on Monday, 7th January, 1828. The System of Teaching pursued in this School has been proved by practical demonstration founded on Philosophical Principles to be the most eligible-and in the Mercantile, Nautical, and Mechanical departments, its results have been highly satisfactory. N. B. Evening Instructions, in the several branches, during the Winter months, from Six to Eight o'clock. i r GRAMMAR SCHOOL, HULL f REV. W. WILSON, HEAD MASTER. E VERY branch of Instruction Classical, Mathematical and Commercial , uecetwary for Business or the Profes sions, is taught in this School, on a Plan that possesses great facility,-and aims at a sound and useful Education. Eight Young Gentlemen are received by the Head Master as Boarders, who are treated in all respects as Members of the Family. Terms, c. may be learned on application. The School re-opens January 16, 1828. . ■THE SCHOOL IN CHARLES.STREET, HULL, CONDUCTED BY THE REV. J. THOMPSON, And two Assistants, W I.L be Re-opened on the 14th Instant.-The course of Instruction includes the English, Latin, and Greek Languages Writing and Arithmetic Merchants' Aecompts the various Brandies of the Mathematics, History, Geography with the Use of the Globes, kc. 41, George-street, Jan. 1, 1828. R' KIXG EDWARD'S GRAMMAR SCHOOL, LOUTH. THE REV. T. A. DALE, B.A. Second Master in the above School, ESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and the Public that, after the Christmas Vacation, he will be able to accommodate a limited number of Young Gentlemen as Parlour Boarders, who would be under his immediate care, and who, in addition to the course of Education established in the School, may have the advantage of learning the French and Italian Languages. His Pupils are treated as part of his own Family, and the greatest attention is paid to their health and morals, and every facility given to promote their im provement. Terms may be known on application to the Rev. T. A Dale, to Messrs. Jacksons, Booksellers, Louth, or to Mr. T Topping, Printer, Hull. Westgate, Louth, Dec 28, 1827. UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF THE HULL CHORAL SOCIETY. M ISS BR ADBURY has the honour most respectfully to inform her Friends and the Public, that her BENEFIT CONCERT is fixed for Wednesday, January 2nd, 1828, in the Choral Society's Room, Mytongate, when she humbly solicits their kind support. On this occasion, MissB, will have the assistance of Mr, Tirpin and Mr. Ei.lis, from the York and Leeds Concerts, and also of a Young Lady, Pupil to J. Watson, Esq. of Covent-Garden Theatre. Leader of the Band Mr. Thirlwall. Tickets, 3s. each, to be had of Miss Bradbury, No. 8, Charter-House-Lane, and of T. Topping, Lowgate. The Performance to commence at Seven o'Clock. COURSE OP SIX LECTURES ON ELOCUTION, Under the Patronage of the Literary and Philosophical Society. M R. CALVERT Legs to announce, under the above sanction, a Course of Six Lectures on ELOCUTION, These Lectures, to be delivered in the Exchange Room, will commence on the Evening of Saturday, January 12th, and proceed Wednesdays and Saturdays in the following order Lecture the First-On the Nature of the Art. Second-On its Importance. Third-On the Oratory of the Ancients. Fourth-On Modern Oratory. Fifth and Sixth-On the Means of Improvement in the Art Tickets for the Course, 10s. 6d.-for the Single Lecture. 2s. 6d.-of Mr. Calvert, Mr, Benson's, South-End and of the Booksellers. CHARLES MAY, CONFECTIONER AND FRUITERER, 29, Silver-Street, Hull, R ETURNS his grateful thanks to the Inhabitants of Hull, Beverley, and their Vicinities, for their kind favours, and hopes to merit a future continuance. C. M. begs to inform his Friends, that he has superior and richly-ornamented Christmas Cakes, of various sizes, for the Twelfth Night also, rich Bride Cakes, of the best quality, made to order Comfits, and a general variety of Fancy Lozenges preserved West India Ginger, and other Fruits, Creams, Jellies, and other varieties to furnish the Table. Pickles, and rich Sauces, from the first Houses in London Mock Turtle, and other Soups. B. BROOKS, Golden BoyJ Carver, Gilder, and Plate Glass Works Depot, 16, Whitefriargate, Hull, M OST respectfully renews his solicitations to the Nobility, Gentry, and the Public in general, for Orders in LOOKING GLASSES of all dimensions, in Chimney, Pier, and Toilette of the most fashionable descrip tions, suitable for the Drawing, Dining-Room, or Boudoir, and as Cheap as at the Plate Glass Works. French Ornamental Frames of all prices, and Artists sup plied with the best London Bladder COLOURS, Canvass, Brushes, c. with every Material for Oil Painting. S' La LYON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL LACE.MANUFACTURER, 58, LOWGATE, ENSIBLE of the liberal and distinguished Patronage con-_ ferred on him by the Ladies of Hull, Beverley, and their Vicinities, since his cornmerreement, begs to tender his grate ful acknowledgments, and' to announce that he has just received from his Manufactory a new and fashionable Assort ment of Wide and Narrow LACES, in Brussels, Valenciennes, Grecian, and Barege Patterns, and a variety of Dress Articles, to which he respectfully solicits their inspection. Laces made to Pattern, Cleaned, and Repaired. Licensed agreeably to Act of Parliament. C T HE Public are respectfully informed, that by arrange ments recently made, they may be supplied with CINDERS, of excellent quality, at 16s. per Dozen, delivered in any purl of Hull. This description of Fuel is particularly recommended for consumption in Stoves of Churches, Chapels, or Shops, being extremely durable, and entirely free from Smoke. Orders by Post, or otherwise, promptly attended to, ad dressed to the British Gas Light Company, Bank Side, Scul-coates. COAL TAR as usual, in any quantity, December 31, 1827. y OTTRINGHAM DRAINAGE. N OTICE is hereby given, that there will be a MEETING of the Proprietors of Lands in this Drainage, being Commissioners, at the House of Benjamin Fligg, Innholder, in Ottringham, on Wednesday, the 9th Day of January next, at Twelve o'Clock. - By Order, HENRY JOHN SHEPHERD. Beverley, Dec. 26, 182 S MR. CARR, SURGEON DENTIST, late with the chevalier ruspini, C ONTINUES his successful and approved method of fixing ARTIFICIAL TEETH, and all Operations in Dental Surgery, at No. 27, Humber-Street, Hull. An APPRENTICE Wanted. T BAZAAR. HE BAZAAR for the SCULCOATES NATIONAL and INFANTS' SCHOOL, will Open on Tuesday, the 8th of January, 1828. Articles may be sent directed to the Ladies of the Com mittee, to the care of Mr. Stringfellow, Assembly-Rooms, North-Street, after the 2nd of the Month. Hull, Dec. 28, 1827. T. READ, MYTONGATE, HULL, M ANUFACTURER of HOSIERY, and Wholesale Dealer in small Wares. N. B. Country Dealers supplied on the lowest terms. Knitting Cotton, Worsted, Angola, and Lamb's Wool, Yarn, Sewing Cotton, in Ball and Skeins, kc. kc. TO PRINTERS. TO BE SOLD, A Very Excellent CLYMER's PATENT COLUMBIAN PRESS, Double Crown-size of Plattin, 33 inches by 22i. It. has been in use seven Weeks, and is consequently better than new. The only reason for parting with the Press is, that it may he replaced by a larger one by the same Maker, in order to increase the Size of The Hull Packet and Humber Mercury. Also, a DOUBLE CROWN PRESS, by Stafford, to be disposed of. CkT Letters, post-paid, to T. Topping, Hull. . . RICHARD BOYLE SON, Ship Chandlers, kc. B EG to make known to their Friends and the Public ge nerally, that their Agency with Messrs. R. Flinn Co. for the Sale of their Chain Cables, has ceased and, at the same time, to inform them, that they have now made arrange ments with Messrs. WM. HAWKS, sen. CO. of Gateshead, and intend keeping, in addition to the large Stock of Anchors of their Manufacture, a large and well-assorted Stock of their tested CHAIN CABLES, KEDGES, WINDLASS WHEELS, HAWSE-PIPES, kc. kc. constantly on hand, which, for quality of Iron, and superiority of Workmanship, has so long given that House such a decided preference in the North. R Boyle and Son trust, by strict attention, that they will still continue to receive from their Friends that liberal sup port they have hitherto experienced, and for which they beg to return them their most sincere thanks. N.B. A large Stock of Second-hand Anchors, which can, with confidence, be recommended. North Side Old Dock, Hull, December 10, 1827. R. PEARSON B EGS to offer his unfeigned thanks to his Nautical Friends and the Public, for the liberal support he has received during the time he has been in Business, and respectfully in forms them that he has been appointed Agent for the Sale of Messrs. Flinn and Co.'s CHAIN CABLES, ANCHORS, kc. which have long held a precedency over any other House, in pointof quality and workmanship, assuringthose Friends who may favourhim with tiieircommands, they shall haveagenuine Article, and on the lowest terms, with every other Article connected with the Trade. Hull, Dec. 22, 1827. Tv Merchants, Ship Owners, Ship Builders, and the Public. W. POWER B EGS to solicit the attention of a liberal Public to the great advantage he holds out to them of making the Purchase of CHAIN CABLES at Home, instead of circulating their Capital in a Distant part of the Kingdom, from which they derive little or no advantage, and more especially so, will it appear to every reflecting mind, when they consider the advantage of encouraging the employment of the Poor around our own District, and establishing Manufactories for articles that are wanted and consumed in that District. W. P. will engage to deliver to all those who favour him with their Orders as good an article in Chain Cables, in every respect as to Price, Quality, and Make, as can be had from either the North or Southern parts of the Kingdom, with the extra-advantage of the Purchaser seeing them Proved by the Hydraulic Machine, and being at liberty to visit the Manu factory and inspect the quality of the iron of which the Chain is made. W. Power returns his sincere thanks for the liberal support he has received, and assures his Friends and the Public that nothing shall be wanting on his part to merit a continuance of their patronage. Cable Wharf, Wincolmlee, Hull, Dec. 14, 1827. N. B. W. P. is determined to supply his Friends with all kinds of Chain-Iron, Nails, c. on the lowest terms. ✓ EDUCATION, No. 21, Story-street, Hull. M ISS LOCKING'S Boarding-School will be Re-opened on Tuesday, January 15tli, 1828. December 27,1827, sjr Mr. HAYES, Surgeon, v Is in immediate want of an APPRENTICE. 16, Savile-street, Hull. J. U. BARKER, ✓ Chemist and Druggist, Corner of Osborne-Street, Waterhouse-Lane, Hull, Is in want of an APPRENTICE. FOUND STRAYING, A Handsome BITCH the Loser may have her by describing her, and pay ing expenses.-Apply at the Hull Packet and Humber Mercury Office. 4 Tal A co. New Corn Market, Hull, the 28th Dec. 1827. Meeting of the Subscribers and Friends of the New Corn Market, it was resolved to celebrate the opening of the Building for Public Business by a DINNER, at the Kingston Hotel, on this day Tuesday, 1st January, 1828, at Five o'Clock, and such Subscribers and Friends to the Institution as intend to Dine, are respectfully requested to send in their names to the undermentioned Stewards, or the Bar of the Hotel. T. W. GLEADOW, Y T. HEWITT, JOHN HALL, Stewards. WILLIAM BELL, J THE OLD CORN-EXCHANGE. T HE Proprietor returns his most sincere thanks to the Farmers, Cornfactors, Millers, and others frequenting this Establishment, for past favours at the same time he begs to inform them, that the Old Corn Exchange, in the Centre of the Market-Place, will continue Open for the despatch of Business every Tuesday and Friday, from Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon until Half-past One in the Afternoon, on each of the said Days respectively, where every accommoda tion will he rendered for their comfort and convenience, as formerly. Hull, Dec. 17th, 1827. WILLIAM SOULBY. CORN-EXCHANGE COFFEE-HOUSE, Market-Place. A MBROSE MELSON, with gratitude acknowledges the kind support he experienced from his Friends during his residence at the Ship Tavern, Lowgate, and also for the flattering encouragement he has received since his removal to the Corn-Exchange Coffee-House lately occupied by Mr. Soulby , and in soliciting a continuance, he assures them his best exertions sliall be used to merit their favours. He begs to inform his Town and Country Friends, that his ORDINARY will be prepared on Tuesdays, at Half-past One, as usual and his chief 'udy will lie to promote their com fort and convenience, so as to ensure that patronage which was so liberally bestowed upon his predecessor. N.B. Choice WINES, SPIRITS, kc. London Daily and Hull Weekly Papers. i ' DURHAM OX, AND NEW CORN-EXCHANGE COFFEE-HOUSE, First House on the left in Blanket-Row, and within Fifty Yards of the Corn Market. J AMES BAINES, in soliciting a continuance of the favours of his Friends, begs to inform them, and those Gentle men in particular who frequent the Corn Market, that he has provided Private Rooms for the transacting of Business and trusts, that the local situation of his House, together with his determination to make the comfort of his Friends his only aim, will ensure him their support. An ORDINARY on Tuesdays, at Half-past One. Hull, December 31,1827. T HE Creditors who have proved their Debts under a Com mission of Bankrupt, awarded and issued forth against THOMPSON CHAPMAN the Younger, late of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Master Mariner, Dealer and Chapman, are re quested to meet the Assignees of the said Bankrupt's Estate and Effects, on Saturday the 19th Day of January, 1828, at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon, at the King's Coffee-House, in the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, in order to assent to or dissent from the said Assignees compounding, submitting to arbitration, or otherwise adjusting and settling a claim by the said Assignees, on a certain Person to be named at the said Meeting, and on other Special Affairs. HAIRE, HOLDEN, GALLOWAY, Solicitors. A- SUPERIOR BLACK LEAD PENCILS, Manufactured by GATES and COUPLAND, KESWICK, CUMBERLAND, T HESE superior Pencils have been so iong in request amongst Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers, and Men of Business, and have given such general satisfaction that it is unnecessary to enlarge upon their superior qualities. They are manufactured of various degrees of hardness and colour. They may now be had ofT. Topping, Hull, and all the respect able Booksellers in Hull, Beverley, and the principal Towns in England. Also, by the same Manufacturers, BLUE SLATE PENCILS for the use of Schools, in Cedar Cases, of a very superior quality. THEATBE-nOYAL, HULL. This Evening, TUESDAY, January 1, 1828, NATIVE LAND Zanina - Miss Love. WITH THE POOH SOLDIER. Patrick Miss Love. On WEDNESDAY, January 2, The BENEFIT of Miss LOVE, and her last Night of Performance, H ENRI QUATRE Louison Miss Love. WITH MIDAS. Apollo - Miss Love. NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS. M. S. N.'s Stanzas are inadmissible. Extracts from the Journal of a Military Officer, A Legend of Hoi. derness, and A Primitive Phrenologist, are under consideration. T HE Creditors who have proved their Debts under a Com mission of Bankrupt awarded and issued forth against SHADRACH WRIDE, of the Town and County of the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, Merchant, are requested to meet the Assignees of the Estate and Effects of the said Bankrupt, on Wednesday the Second Day of January next, at One o'Clock in the Afternoon, at the Kingston Hotel, in Scale-Lane, in the said Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, to assent to or dissent from the said Assignees commencing and prosecuting a cer tain Suit or Suits at Law or in Equity, for the recovery of part of the said Bankrupt's Estate, the object of which will he stated at such Meeting, and on other special Affairs. ALDERSON PHILLIPS. Hull, Dec. 10,1827. WRIDE'S AUDIT AND DIVIDEND. rrrtiE Commissioners in a Commission of Bankrupt bearing date tHc 11th Bay of February, 1826, awarded and issued forth against SHADRACH WRIDE, of the Town and Countyof the TownofKingston-upon-Hull, Merchant, intend to meet on the Second Day of January next, at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon, at the Kingston Hotel, in the Town of Kingston-upon-Hullaforesaid, in order to Audit the Accounts of the Assignees of the Estate and Effects of the said Bank rupt, under the said Commission and the said Commissioners also intend to meet on the same Day, at Twelve o'Clock at Noon, at the same place, to make a Dividend of the Estate and Effects of the said Bankrupt when and where the Cre ditors who have not already proved their Debts, are to come prepared to prove the same, or they will he excluded the be nefit of the said Dividend. And all Claims not then proved ALDERSON PHILLIPS, Solicitors. will be disallowed. SMITH'S ASSIGNMENT. Heslewood, of Kingston-upon-Hull aforesaid, Lead-Merchant, and George Cammell, of the same place, Merchant, in Trust for Sale, for the benefit of his Creditors, Notice is therefore hereby given, That the Assignment is left at our Office for the inspection and signature of the Creditors and sucli of them as shall not execute the same, or signify their consent in writing so to do, on or before the 21st day of February next, will be excluded the benefit to arise therefrom. All Persons indebted to the said Thomas Smith, are re quested to pay the amount of their respective Debts to us, without delay, otherwise actions at law will he commenced against them for the recovery thereof. By Order of the Assignees, FOSTER Sc MILLER. 27, Bishop-Lane, Hull, 22 1 Dec. 1827, PRICES OF THE PUBLIC FUNDS. STOCKa Bank Stock 3 Cent. Reduced 3 ty Cent. Consols Old 3# W Cent New 31 Cent New 4 IP Cent Bank Long Annuities . . . India Bonds Exchequer Bills Consols for Account .... EXCHANGES. More business than usual was transacted in the Foreign Exchanges on Friday afternoon, and on much higher terms than on last post day the principal advance was in the Exchange on Paris, which was quoted from 25. 47,!£. to 25. 52 6. on Hamburgh from 36. 3 6. to 36. 4. and on Amster dam, from 12. 1. to 1 6-Mond. 205 6 SJH Tuea. Wed. 205 6 83 Thura 205 6 83 # Frid. Satur. 205 6 m .. ooi I00f 1 ?Sff ,, yo 101 83p 82p 82p Bp 84# 4 aafi si JUull IJacJu't atilt dumber Itlmurp. HULL TUESDAY, JANUARY 1, 1828. Destruction op the Greek Fleet.-We regret to inform our readers, that Intelligence has been received in London, through the medium of the French newspapers, of a most disastrous event-no less than the total destruction of the Greek Fleet, off the Island of Scio, by the French Admiral De Rigny. No details have arrived connected with this calamitous piece of news, and we are, moreover, informed by some of the metropolitan prints, that up to a late hour on Saturday evening, Government had received no advices upon the subject. Still we fear there is little room to indulge a hope that such an event has not taken place or at least, if not totally destroyed, that the fleet of the unfortunate Greeks has actually been engaged in a ruinous conflict with the vessels under the command of the Frcncli Admiral.-It is known that the Allies had expressed their determination to compel the observance of the armistice, as well on the part of the Greeks, as of their Turkish opponents it is also known that De Rigny had sailed in the direction of Scio, to which place the Greek naval force had proceeded for the purpose of carrying on offensive operations against the Turks. We have no reason to doubt that the interference of the Allies would be prompt and decisive to force the Greeks to obey the in junction of the 24th October, and to desist from hostilities till the result of the pending negociations was known. Unless the Allies acted thus, the Sultan would have every reason to charge them with duplicity, and with being partizans of his rebellious subjects, under pretence of offering their mediation to restore peace and tranquillity. But what infatuation, Qa 5 
4 1 0 El' It Y. WANTED-A WIFE. , sought alt England through and through, • Motlg damn of hlgtt degree Will hundred pretty maids, .'•it not one made for me! i . ? iss Seraj4 ina was a nymph I bought lieyorvl compare Jack! one day-unseen-I heard My Seraphima swear! Fd thrown sheep's eyes at her, because I took her for a lunb l'is true, 1 liked her breeding well. Hut did'nt like her d ! 1 quitted her for Fanny Bloom, v How sweetly she could sing! but she had two strings to her bow, Anti two beaux to her string! Next blue eyed Emily l sought. With flaxen tresses flowing Vet oh! 1 saw those lovely eyes In angry passion glowing. She struck her maid-she might strike me Mv visits thence tlid cease Quoth 1- It is not every hand i hat bears the palm of peace. An angel, Isabel they called j l'is true she is a bell. Who hath a clapper rings for aye, That soon would ring my knell! Rich widows, too. I've tried in vain, Relicts of golden calves! They all were wives of honest men. Rut not their better halves! There was Widow WArren, fair to view, Of presence quite commanding Tut oh ! she had a Wooden leg, And a weakly understanding! A bachelor I am, my friends may laugh, No Benedict thej ffi Hurt me Free as the air I'll live And die. If 1 leave no heir behind me! I'm not of those the Fancy styled. Whom loves to sing So my matches and engagements shall lie all without the ring! f pa k n -e. A inTiitioH. hilere lit'o T'i the Editor of the Hull Packet and llnmbcr Mercury. Mr-'When any new system or scieneeComes out into the world, w ith high pretensions to importance and utility, unless it besupported bv facts, observation, or experiment, it deserves only to be ridiculed and then to he forgotten. Hut when this species of evidence is gra-tuitously adduced in support of the principle, it seeks to establish ■ and when the truth of those principles is freely and fairly staked upon the validity oftliiseviden.ee, then it becomesthe duty of every candid individual to examine impartially into the merits of the ease as far as Iris opportunities will allow him, and only to atrord his assent so far as it is home out by substantial proofs If tbe system that solicits that assent appear, after such an investigation, to be destitute alto, cottier of tlieevidonce upon which its claims are professedly founded, or even if it appear to tie ill, or accidentally supported by it, then, of course, lie imperfectly justifiable, not only in withholding thorn it his own individual support, but in endeavouring, by argument or ridicule, to prevent its gaining further hold of the minds of others. There are some people who are ever crying out against innovation. Whenever anovel doctrine is presented to their notice, their antiyuarian prejudices immediately take tlie alarm, and ttiey at once stigmatize it as absurd, without ever investigating the arguments by which it is supported, or tlie evidence upon which it rests. They tell usitcarries falsehood on its very face, or it can never benefit society, or it will corrupt the public morals, or it tends to materialism and thus ttiey presume to censure and condemn what ttiey know nothing at all about. I grant it is very necessary to exercise caution in examining the evidence of any new system, lest, by too hasty a proceedure, we should admit as valid evidence, what may be only the result of casual coincidence, or superficial analogy but then it is equally necessary, on the other hand, that we take care not to reject a whole set of prin ciples, on the ground of any apparent itisagreement that disagree, ment may be the mere modification of circumstances, and that unfavourable resultmay beonly a practical abuse Cor what established principle is there whose proofs are not, in some way or other, dependent upon circumstances and wtiat righteous doctrine is there, which has not, at some time or other, been prostituted to vicious ends! But I must come to tlie gist of my communication. Your corres. pondent T. R ' is truly in a deplorable situation, and every one of humane di position must really pity him, and not him only, but his periwigged and phrenotogized children. No one can wonder, poor fellow I at his hostility to the science. It is certainly quite natural but still it is a sad pity he should have exposed his folly by publishing the flimsy and futile evidence oil which that hostility rests for, Sir, nliat docs his communication prove ' Why, first, thatT. R. is no Solomon, else he would never have married so hair-brained a wench, fur you may depend upon it, Phrenology only completed what had long been begun, and what, to a sagacious mind, must have been evident enough and, secondly, it furnishes a singular instance of the correctness of Phrenological observation. T. It 's wife was quite correct,'' when site found, by tire bumps on her husband's lie-id, that he had no love for tier for nothing but a total want of affection could have allowed him to hold up to public ridicule, the f itly of one holding so tender a relationship as tlmt of wife, and one whose very fault , by reason of that relationship, ought to be held sacred. What, Mr. Eititor, has Phrenology to do witli the madness of one of its advocates, unless it can lie shown that that madness is its h-gdimate result! Jmlice might as well he charged with falsehood, because a maniac takes upon him to w ield a sword w'hii h ' e calls by lier sacred name, and with it to tiny the innocent. I recommend T. R. to play no more upon the organs, for he produces nothing but discords there. But, after alt, I really hope your correspondent is debtor to his I iWgination for his facts. 0! that he would credit it with some of tlie e'rcnlatiny medium of the understanding. If lie be married, 1 shall be exceedingly glad to receive an invitation to dine with him. I have no doubt I should presently add to tlie number of my friends, tlie I -ill , if not Phreuol ajieal couple-Mr. and Mrs. T. R. But, Mr Editor, my principal object in addressing ttiis letter to you, was neither to sympathise with your correspondent, nor to expl icate an invitation irom hint lint to adduce some sound, phreno. logical facts-facts belonging to a species of evidence which has not hitherto, so Dir as I know, been much illustrated. I am a poor pedagogue. Sir, and a warm-hearted advocate for Phrenology. You are aware that one of the advantages of tlie science is said to be, the facility it affords to tlie right mining or children, according to their most prominent developments. 1 shall briefly illustrate tlie truth of this, by stating the advantages that have actually accrued from my adoption of Phrenological principles, and following thtir intimations with respect to the children under my care. It is said, the actions of children sufficiently denote what is their ruling faculty or predomi nant disposition but I deny that this is tlie case, except la instances ol very uncommon precocity. Tlie practice in all schools lias been to adopt, from first to last, thesameroutineof tuition in allcases, without attempting totllacover tin particular bias of I he mind, and irrespec tively of any diversity, even if it forced itself into view and parents tinve seldom consulted any tiring but their own whim, predilection, ambition, or caprice, in their children's lubin urut pursuits. Thus the energies of numberless minds have been wasted on tilings unbefitting and inappropriate while, if due attention had been paid to tlie par-titular character of ttieir developments, their munis migtit have risen tohigh eminence in someone particular department, undetected, is that department, no one can ealeulate w hat important and bene-li.-isl results. On the principles of Phrenoh gv. I have practised this mode or tuition, and 1 feel it a duty thus publicly to record the suc cesses, of which 1 gladly yield to Phrenology all tlie praise. Immediately on my becoming a conscientious disciple of Drs. tail and Spnnbeiin, I formed the idea, of carrying tlie principles of tlie science into the management of my school. I reflected on the pro. prk-tv of the measure for some time, during which my faith in Phrenology was daily strengthening and, at length, I mentioned my view s to tlie parents of tlie hoys, and, w ith their concurrence, deter-mined on making the experiment Just before the intervention of tlie li lidays made a convenient pause in tlie then existing arrangements of tlie school, 1 set apart a day for examining llie heads of my boys on Phrenological principles. 1 did not think it necessary to turn barber, and siiave all the liair off their heads, as did the deluded wife of your correspondent T. R. but t adopted tlie easier, and, for general purposes, the equally efficient mode of passing my hand over tlicir hairy scalps. I look dow n iqx. i isiper, tlie prominent Phreno logical de velopments of each, and during tbe vacation drew out an arrangement, by which the boys were to be placed in classes, and each class t named alter the particular department of leanring for which, according to my Phrenological observations, nature seemcd more especially to have adapted the Individuals who were to lilt its ranks. You may think, Sir, t was not a little anxious for ttie result of tlie ex. perimcn't however, the holidays passed over, and the time for tTying it arrived. 1 need not trouble you with tlie detail or every step in the progress of tlie experiment. Suffice it tosay, tt was not long before I had indubitable testimony to tlie truth of Phrenological principles, and to the utility of tlie arrangements to which I had subjected my school. Each hoy presently manifested a special aptness at receiving the particular instruction ofhis class, and rapidly rose to wlut would otherwise liavc appeared precocious attainments in that detriment. Many of them have since left school but in the choice of their pur suits, tlie character of their minds, and tlie discipline through which they had passed, were wisely consulted and their parents, without a single exception, have now the pleasure of witnessing their children's rapid and successful prosecution of tlieir respective callings and while they fret rationally assured ttiat present apjiearunces are the certain pledges of future eminence, ttiey gladly and gratefully ackuow. ledge that to Plirenotogy they are, and will be, indebted for it all. 1 wouldnot, Mr. Editor, tiaveyou or your readers imagine, that under ilie Phrenological arrangements of my school, all kinds of learning are in-elected by tlie boys, excepting ttiat branch to which tlie class they belong to is devoted-that w ere as impolitic as it would be ridiculous. To the general branches of education sufficient attention is paid, during certain hours of the day, to secure useful proficiency in them while, to llie exercises ol his class, during the remainder of the day, the attention of each boy is exclusively directed -thus the general purposes of education are secured, while the particular bias of the mind is consulted, and its character ultimately formed on tlie princi-ples of its original constitution. In my own family, the same course has been pursued, and with equal success Residing those of niv children who are now in situations, I am constantly receiving tlie most gratifying testimonies of tln-ir employers' apnrobalinn an l those who are stilt under niv Immediate care, are daily exhibiting the most pleasing proofs of the lra.li of Phrenological science. I bcgpardori, Air. Editor, for having trespassed so much upon your k - re. My communication hasextended much beyond my original I trust the interesting nature of the subject to me, at least, , wilt be an apology for me. I am, Sir, vour obedient servant, h e. 52,184T. PETER PEDAGOGUE. ur Correspondent expert the readers of this letter to give rrnlit •hi or. important fcctj in ftjwmvof I'hrciictogv as there, onthcau. ,Vf 'WVcringogueP'--. r, inch,,, .i, thvhricnemof T. u. L. tvunly V. merely e OlUfting ei a sportive imagination f VENTItll.OQUISM We cony the following front the Sheffield Cnurant of Saturday week. It is extracted from a very able piper on tbe Human Voice, read lately by Mr. Boultliee, to tlie mem hers of the Sheffield Literary and Philosophical Society. In addition to the elegance of style, by which this composition is distinguished, it contains some curious facts serving to ex plain that hitherto mysterious faculty, Ventriloquism, an art whose exercise produced extraordinary results in ancient times, and has been tlie source of much amusement in our own enlightened days -Imitative v.rice in man, has frequently been cultivated with most astonishing uc ws. We find persons capable ol simulating the notes of birds, the sounds of animals, and even personating the voice ol orators and public speakers. 'I he following inanimate sounds tiave been very closely m tated The noise produ -ed by sawing wood by the uncorking ut a bottle, i.n tlie decanting of its contents-tlie sound or air rushing into a loom through a crevice or otlier aperture-that of working a gun I Stone, with tlie rough attrition of the steel upon it-and tlie various chai ges caused by alteration of pressure, amt many others. Persons who have exercised the art of imitation in one of its forms have been called ventriloquists, or belly-speakers, from an idea once entertained ttiat tlie voice proceeded out of the stomacti. Among tie names of those celebrated for this art, we And, in the 10th century, Louis Hmbni-t, Valet de Chambie of Francis 1, of France . Since his time, Baron Mcngcu, Henderson, Garbutt, Matliews, Alexandre, e. have'distinguished themselves. Tlicir most mysterious power is ttiat of deluding those they address into the belief that the sound comes from a point at a considerable distance from the person of tlie speaker. Of the first mentioned individual it is related, ttiat being denied the hand of a young w oman of fortune and station, much above his own, by tier father, he renewed his addresses after the death of tlie latter and w hen in tlie presence of the lady and her mother, imitated tlie deceased's voice, w hich seemed to come from the ceiling of the apart ment. With cries ami groans lie imputed his aggravated tortures in purgatory to the refusal or ills daughter to Louis Brabant, and con jured her, if e'er she did her poor father love,'' to marry I tie sold Louis forthwith which, in suitable horror, consternation, and filial piety she did. It appeam tlmt there are several modes in which varieties of voice maybe produced.-1st. By speaking during inspiration tmtead of, as usual, during expiration The voice so produced is more feeble than onlirarv for tlie ear does not directly receive the sonorous undula tions as before and whilst we are looking wlience tlie s jurat comes the spoakt r us s means to direct our attention --Jrally. By speaking in a more grave or acute pitch than usual, by tightening or relaxing the vi c.d ligaments, and also by contracting tlie mouth in a greater or less degree, nuy motion in which it is necessary to avoid, and from practice a person may acquire tlie pow er of producing all, exempt the .Inal articulations, without it and of these tlie F V ami M may he imitated bv the posterior parts of the mouth so that visible move ment of tlie lips can he avoided by using words in w liich B and I do not occur -3rdly. Sounds may be rendered much deeper, and appa rently more distant, by depressing tlie larynx. Tlie tongue, also, may be thrown back with its points resting against its palate, so as to force the sonorous undulations, in a great measure, through tlie nose. -Itlily. Great power in the muscles, and much flexibility in the larynx and organs of speech are requisite. In all case it is necessary for the ventrih iquist to direct our w filing imaginations. But however well formed the larynx may be for tlie production of variety in sound, and however perfectly this may be accompanied by flexibility of tlie organs of speech, tlie skilful imitator has much to learn. lie must be acquainted w ith relative sounds for a tlie eye, by long practice only, is enabled correctly to judge of distance, in objects, from tlicir relative size-so dees tlie ear, by continued use, become tutored to tlie strict nicety in sounds at various distances. Who, in his younger days, on first seeing represented, by a magic lantern, the little figure rising into gigantic stature, has not felt dread at his apparent hasty approach ! Aral whb, on first looking through a telescope, lias not stretched forth his hand to toucli tlie distant object? And in maturer years, lias not the small fly, suddenly crossing our vision, appeared an enormous bird! Thus our mental scale of size aud distance may, by various illusions, be made to deceive, so may w e suppose the ear, equally nice in its judgment, liable to have that very nicety, which is the foundation of a mental scale of peculiar auditory impressions and distance of sound, also imposed upon, provided any art can discover and produce tlie requisite modifications. And herein consists tlie art and science of tlie ventriloquist for as the undulation in sound w hich readies our ears must necessarily vary w ith the distance it lias come, and as at any one point such variation w ill of itself be a specific sound, so tlie performer has to accommodate iris voice to that sound peculiar to tlie distance intended to be represented. Alexandre, who exhibited here some time ago, studied these peculiarities, by imitating a person's voice, as he spoke at intervals, receding above three humlred yards. He lias likewise sent a chimneysweeper up a chimney,w ith directions to speak down, at every two yards, until, by practice, lie could at length imitate the voice in its gradations so exactly, that persons in tlie room could not distinguish which was his, and which the boy's. But having acquired the lower of producing the varieties of sound, something more is wanted to perfect the illusion. It is necessary that the performer should fix tlie attention of his hearers to some point or direction w hence he intends the voice npimrenlly to issue and this was done by Alexandre with admirable dexterity, as he alternately asumed tlie character of listener and speaker, as we particularly remarked, when tlie voice appeared to come from tlie chimney, a trunk, through tlie door, and from a room beneatli by a trap-door. It were needless to dilate upon those infinite modifications of voice, which ire connected with tlie social and intellectual character of man. The relations in which the members of a cirilived and highly cultivated society stand to each other, are so numerous and diversi fied, Hi ,t it becomes no easy task to form a just estimate of tlie vocal organ. To w hat various purposes, both useful and delightful, is it not subservient! It is at once tlie medium of conveying to our minds tlie noblest thoughts, and the most exquisite pleasure. Do wc admire the wild and cle -rftil notes poured forth by tlie warldetx of the grove! These are greatly surpassed by the melody of man, whom we may justly style the prince of songsters. His voice far exceeds in compass and variety ofmodulatjon that orthe feathered trilies and when bodily suite ring, or chill and nipping penury do not wring from him u lies of woe. lie chants tlie greater part of his life in happy aud cheerful strains. There are few iiersons insensible to ttie ctiauns ol voice, and scarcely can any one be found whose soul is so totally devoid of music, that he does not occasionally give utterance to tlie buoyancy of tris spirits, by vocal modulations. The child hums away the careless hours-and manhood ltsell forgets its weary tolls in aittesssong. But when science anil art combine to jierfect the latter, of whit higher or more refined enjoyments is trie most cultivated mind suscepiiblc! while tie ravishes the ear with Iris music, at trie same time captivates tlie understanding, by giving utterance to thought his notes are not mere empty sounds. To w hatever tlie ricli imagination of tlie poet has embodied, or the pen of eloquence de picted, nuui enn impart still higher charms by his song and thus, by addressing at once tlie intellect and xissiuns, lead captive Iris willing listener. Voice i'self, wlien manipulated, forms a kind of natural languages and in this resjiect is highly important. Different animals are dis-lingui he 1 by peculiar and appropriate cries. Man likew ise expresses his feelings and emotions by differently modifying the intonation of voice, and every ail'eetion of tlie mind is characterized by a particular tone. Thus, anger uniformly manifests itself in loud, harsh, and hollow sounds. Mirlh anil joy are ex iressed in moderately loud, but sharp and brisk notes, with sudden transitions througli consider able intervals, passing rapidly from the grave to tlie acute, and generally ending with a high note. Slow, full, and measured tones are filled for devotion. Grief and compassion are expressed in low, sliding, and diminishing notes where the transitions are not sudden, nor by sharp turns, nor strongly contras ed intervals, tlie movement proceeding by single or lialf notes, and generally in tlie descending scale. Fear is expressed by low, m itilous, and uncertain tones. The sudden start of horror and angui.su, by tlie shriek and tlie lengthened scream. While ttie yell of mortal agony, which is extorted by instant and impending death, combines in it all tlmt is horrible. Exuliation and triumph are naturallycxpressed by loud and sustained shouts in a high key. Such are the hurmlis and cheers by which all nations, rude or civilized, give vent to their feelings of triumph, and drive terrorinto the hearts ot tlieir enemies. All these peculiarities of voice may be imitated by musical instruments, anil Cullins has admirably described them in his Ode to the Passions. Thus every emotion will be indicated by the tone of voice so that it forms a uatiinilflaiigunge, which is understood by all nations. Nor do I imagine it a less sure index of tlie soul than eitlier physiognomy or phrenology for whatever passH T! may be prominent in ail indi vidual, the habitual expression of it wilt at length give a tincture to the voice in general. Slmkspeare seemed aware of this, wliere King Lear, wlien enumerating tlie excellencies of Cordelia, says-Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and low-an excellent thing in a woman. SELECTIONS. Oat of twelve gentlemen who started from this city aiuHth neighbourhood to the last Doncaster races, seven of them have since been transported for various periods. Nadi, one of the party who has resided at Summers Town for these last two or three years, has been transported for life, for picking a gentleman's pocket in London.-Oxford Herald. After tlie late action at Navarino, an Irishman, named Phelan, who was cook's mate of the Genoa, was observed to skip about the kitchen with the most ludicrous manifestation of joy. On being questioned, he shouted out, Och, by tlie powers I'm so glad the villains liav'nt spoilt tlie coppers-the devil a shot has touched them. It may not be generally known, that silk folded and put into a press and screwed down very hard, will, after remaining in it a few hours, be prettily watered, equal in every respect to what is effected by hot-pressing. Seed corn soaked in a solution of Glaubpr's salts, will vegetate quickly, and the salts will protect it against worms, fowls, and birds. This accidental discovery, it is said, has been fully tested. A gentleman lately dead, has left by will a sum of five hundred guineas to his wife, adding a clause, that she was not to have the benefit of it till after her death, in order that she might have where- withal to be buried in a comfortable manner. When M. de Latour-Maubourg had a leg shot off by a cannon bail, his servant began to weep! ''Why are you grieved V said the brave General to him dost thou not see you will have a boot less to clean V A Nondescript.-An American paper says, a black woman, walking on all-fours, possessing the agility of a monkey in climbing, conversing freely in Creole French, and having tire lower limbs vulgarly called legs of the ouraug-outang, is advertising for exhibition at New Orleans! Negroes.-Blumenbach gives us a most entertaining ac count of a little library which he possesses of works written by Negroes, from which it appears that there is not a single department of taste or science in which some Negro lias not distirgui-hed himself. A negro about to purchase a fish, visited a shop where several were exposed for sale tint suspecting that one, which ho intchiled to liny, was not altogether as fresh as lie could wish, ho presumed either to dissipate or confirm his suspicions by applying it to his nose. Tlie fishmonger, conscious that it would not bear much examination, and fearing that otlier customers might catch tlie scent, exclaimed in a surly tone-How dare you to smell my fish ? Me no smell, me only talking to him, mussa. And what were you talking to him about V Me ask him, massa, what tlie best news at sea ? And what reply did he make you ? Oh, massa, he say he know no news, as he have not been there these three week. One Sunday, two sailors being together in Stoke Church r,f which the Rev. John Hawker is curate, one of them asked iris messmate tiie meaning of the letters I.H.S. on tlie pulpit cloth. You fool, says the other, don't you see it stands for John Hawker, Stoke. This explanation quite satisfied Jack not so did the sermon, for the parson preached so long that dinner was spoiled,aud Jack vowed that he never would visit that church again. Some time afterwards, being at another port, he went to church, but lie had scarcely taken his seat when lie saw the letters I.H.S. on the pulpit-cloth Oh, ho says he, John Hawker, Stoke, here too-I've lost one dinner by hirruJ wont lose anotherand with these words he made a hast j #' the church, congratulat ing himself upon his lo.v r3 -orjin?.e. Tlie following cement is recommoded as perfectly effective for withstanding the combined cffei. f fire and water. Take any quantity of lime, recently prepared from calcined oyster shells, and mix to the consistence of paste with white of egg, and lay it immediately into the fissure, when it will soon consolidate to the hardness of stone. Like the Roman cement, if suffered to dry while using, it is quite insoluble again even by strong acid. Tlie following passage of Don Quixote hears a singular ap plication to the affair at Navarino. In the 38th chapter, the captive, relating his adventures, says- The year following I was at Navarino, rowing in tlie captain-galley, and there 1 saw and observed tlie opportunity that was then lost o taking the whole Turkish navy in port. For all the Levan tines and Janissaries, Egyptians and Turks on board took it for granted they should he attacked in the harbour, and had their baggage and their passamaques, or shoes, in readiness for running away immediately by land. But heaven ordered it otherwise, for tlie sins of Christendom, and because God permits and ordains, that there should always be some scourges to chastise us. New Rooking for Buildings.-A patent has been lately obtained for making a fire-proof roofing of thin cast iron plates, so as to lock into each other, and effectually carry off the rain. It is said, the cost of this roofing will not exceed one-third that of lead, and he equally durable. It isalso less weight per 100 square feet than a roof of the best thick slating, and much less liable to damage from violent gales of wind, and, therefore, peculiarly adapted to buildings of the larger class, both in safety and economy. A Pleasant Travelling Companion.-Two passengers set out in the Essex coach, from their inn, in London, on December morning. It was dark as pitch and one of them not being sleepy, and wishing for a little conversation, endeavoured, in the usual mode, to stimulate his neighbour to discourse. A very dark morning,Sir Shocking cold weather for travelling Slow going in these heavy roads, Sir. None of these observations producing any answer, the sociable man made one more effort. He stretched out his hand, and feeling tlie other's garment, exclaimed, What a very comfortable coat, Sir, you have got to travel in! No answer was made and the inquirer, fatigued and disgusted, fell into a sound nap, nor awoke till the brightest rays of a winter's sun accounted to him for tlie taciturnity of hi3 companion, by presenting to his view a huge bear luckily for him, muzzled and confined , in a sitting posture, which was conveying to a country fair for exhibition. Alteration in the Climate of England.-Tlmt the cli mate of this country has undergone a considerable change within these last hundred years, is allowed by all who have considered the subject, and nothing furnishes a more con vinciug proof of this than the history of the vine. Previous to the reign of Henry VIII. every abbey and monastery had its vineyard. In tlie rent rolls of churcli property, in those days, and long afterwards, it appears considerable quantities of grapes were paid as tithes, and the vestiges of some of those vineyards remains to this day. They were usually placed on the south side of the hill, in a light dry soil, having the sur-facecovered with sand, the vines being trained near the ground. But witli such inclement and changeable springs and long protracted winters as have been experienced of late, even such frost as is seen at the moment I am writing 24th of April , vines as standards in the open air would be destroyed, or at least no dependence could be placed upon them for a crop. But vineyards in this country could neither be so profitable, nor are they so necessary as they were in those days inter national intercourse is now more open, and corporations, whether religious or civil, can be supplied with grapes in any shape, and tlieir precious juice in any quantity, at a cheaper rate than even home grown, or home made. In their culti vation in this country, practitioners are more likely to err in planting them in too rich than too poor a soil the first adds too much to their natural luxuriance of growth, and always reduces the flavour of the fruit. Prevention of Colds.-At this inclement season, hardly a single person escapes what is called a cold, aud but few so afflicted know how to treat it. The following advice is that given by tlie late Dr. Beddoes, in his instructions -It stiouid be recollected, that a cold is occasioned either by a sudden change from cold to heat, or from heat to cold but more frequently by the former. - When a cold, attended with a cough, is fastened upon a person, what is proper to be done ? This ought generally to be known, as the poor cannot afford, and others at first will seldom take tlie pains to seek advice. It is not right, then, in the begin ning of a cold, to make tlie room where you sit warmer than usual, to increase the quantity of bed-clothes, to wrap your self in flannel, or to drink large draughts of piping riot bar ley-water, boiled up with raisins, figs, liquorice-root, and tlie like. This is the right way to make the disorder worse.-Perhaps there would be hardly such a thing as a bad cold, if people, when they .find it coming on, were to keep cool, to avoid wine and strong drinks, and to confine themselves for a short time to a simple diet, as potatoes and other vegetables, with toast and water. I liave known instances of heat in the nostrils, difficulty of breathing, with a short tickling cough, and other symptoms, threatening a violent cold, go off t ntirely in consequence of this plan being pursued. I have found the pulse to beat from 12 to 20 strokes in a minute less, after a person at the onset of a cold had continued quiet three quarters of an hour in a cool room. It is not only warmth, suddenly applied, ttiat will throw any part of the body, after it lias been starved or benumbed, into violent action, and bring on inflammation strong liquors will do the same. Suicides in France.-In a report of the Council of Health Gazette de Sante, Dec. 5 , appears an account of the suicides committed in Paris in 1820. The minfoi amounts to 511. The principal causes, from tlie inquirleaW.the commissioners, appear to be love, domestic chagrins, misery, diseases, mad ness, derangement of affairs, and, lastly, gaming. Of these 5 1 suicides, 417 only have known causes and ofthese417, 69 are attributed to t he lottery and to gaming, forming almost a quarter of tlie whole, when it is considered that the domestic chagrins, and tiie derangement of affairs mentioned among tlie erases of a great number of suicides, ought in part to be attributed to play. With regard to tlie 04, the causes of which are not precisely mentioned, there is reason to believe that gaming may be assigned as the origin of many, for, generally speaking, gamblers keep tlieir way of life secret, and dare not communicate to their families the subject of their distresses most oftentimes, abo, despair seizes them unawares and suddenly, which is tiie reason that tlieir relations and neigbliours are not aware of t ie cause of It.-French paper. Amirican Bouncers.-A late miinber of an American paper, says-Yesterday we observed an immense flock of blackbirds, extending more than half a mile in length, and some rods in breadth. Tlieir direction was south, making a noise witli their wings almost deafening. They seemed to proceed in their course with tlie utmost regularity, having every appearance of being conducted by a leader. There were numbers of them skirting tlie main body, and apparently acting as flank guards. There must have been some tens of thousands of them.-A few days ago a Canadian woman, at Chambly, while making an omelet for some persons who were to breakfast witli her, opened an egg for the purpose, and, tQ her surprise, found it contained a live snake, about two inches in length, and resembling, in almost every par ticular, the common grass-snake, with the exception of the head being unusually large and flat. When liberated, it crawled about in the frying-pan With mucii alacrity. Several of the neighbours were witnesses of the fact. The hen that laid the egg was immediately killed, and a number of soft eggs were taken out of her, each of which, on being broken, was found to contain a snake, in size and perfection propor tioned to the egg which contained it Sagacity of Rats.-We are personally assured liv a re spectable gentleman, that the following is strictly and literally rue -Some time ago, an out-house belonging to a gentleman in tlie neighbourhood of Oswestry was very mueli infested witli rats at a distance of fcbout 80 yards from the building, constant stream of water passes, and it lias been observed that this species of vermin are fond of a damp or wet situation. Either by age or accident, one of tlie fraternity was entirety-blind and to show the wonderful sagacity of the animals, one of its companions actually carried a piece of straw several inches long in its mouth, and, placing one end of it in the mouth of its blind companion, led it to tlie stream of water, distance of some yards, by the other end of the straw! Whether this was its usual manner or not, tlie person who witnessed tl.e fact had not an opportunity of observing.-Slreicshury Chronicle, LOCAL AMD PROVINCIAL NEWS. Continued ,R m the third page. J Hum. Police.-The following liave been committed to tlie Gaol of this town, since our last - John Dayre, for stealing beef, the property of Mr. Wm. Anfield and Mary Brownand Thomas Crosby, for stealing a pair of shoes, tlie property of Robert Lenham. Scclcoatks Police.-On Monday tiie sitting Magistrates were Jonas Brown, Esq ami the Rev J. Gtlby. The following arsons have been committed from the Public Hall since ourlast -.-John Carr, an Irishman, charged wi,h having, on the night of Tuesday week, stolen a lend pump, from the premises of the late Mr. Omblcr, of Camerton Jane Denman was sent to the sessions for trial, ns an in-corrigible rogue. She is an old offender, having been a source of annoyance for upwards of thirty years, in the course of winch period she has been committed and passed to her settlement times out of number Henry Doughty was committed on a charge of stealing a quantity of oats and beans, in February last, the property ol his mas-ter, J. K. Watson, F.sq. nomas Lister, farrier, at Beverley, charged with receivingtlie property, has given bail to appear at tlie sessions -John llai erson, charged w ith stealing a sheep, near Pauli, was further examined on Saturday week, at Beverley, and fully committed for trial. Wc gave tlie details last week. The following committals to the House of Correction at Beverley, in addition to those from Scuicoates Hall, liave taken place since our last -Francis Cutts, charged with entering the plantations of Chas. Grimston, Esq. at Kilnwick, with intent illegally to destroy game, on the night of tlie 20th Dec. last. Wm. Brown, charged with violently assault ing Wm. Clayton, of Kelfield, in the East-Ridiitg, he being in the due execution of Iris office as constable for trial at the next sessions. John Creaper and Wm. Pease, for deserting their wives and families the former to be imprisoned one calendar month, and the latter.seven days, each to hard labour. Mary Allanson and Elizabeth Brown, disorderly ser vants the former one month, the latter 14 days to hard labour. Henry Ward and Wm. Armstrong, for disobeying orders of bastardy, to be imprisoned three months to hard labour. John Foster, for vagrancy, to be imprisoned three calendar months Jacob Johnson, for vagrancy, one calendar month, and John Broadburn, for vagrancy, 14 days, each to hard labour. Lately, a labourer, called Edward Banks, in the employ of Mr. Wheatley, farmer, Garton, while oiling a thrashing machine, unfortunately got his right hand entangled. Mr. Harwood, surgeon, of Driffield, was called in, who, on exa mination, found tlie fractures and laceration soextensive, that lie deemed immediate amputation necessary. Tlie patient is now doing well. Committed to York Casti.e.-Joseph Bentley, of Cleck-heaton, charged with being concerned, along witli J. Selioles, J. Bentley, J. Brooke, S. Smith, and others yet unknown, in tlie wilful murder of U. Wortnersley, on the night of tiie 30th Nov. Matthew Appleyard, of Denby, for breaking into the warehouse of Joshua Moxon, at Denby aforesaid, and stealing therefrom a quantity of goods, his property. Joseph Hud son, charged with robbing the simp of Mrs. Wood, pawnbroker, of seven watches and otlier articles. Tlie prisoner was ap prehended shortly after the robbery, with four of the watches concealed in his hat. Yorkshire Musical Festival.-At the periodical meeting of the festival committee, held on Wednesday, Mr. Price, of Ciementhorpe, and Mr. John Woodall, jun. of Scarbro', were added to tlie committee. Mr. Davies was appointed tlie treasurer. Mr. Camidge, Dr. Camidge, Mr. White, and Mr. P. Knapton, were appointed assistant conductors. Doctor Camidge was engaged as tlie organist. Various resolutions were passed relative to the engagement of vocal and instru mental performers. The orchestra in the Festival Concert Room is to be re-constructed the present one being extremely inconvenient, and indeed dangerous , and the room itself will he better ventilated. Arrangements are making to get up a series of concerts, at York, under tbe management of Dr. Camidge, and Mr. P Knapton. York minster was much crowded on the afternoon of Cliristmas-Day the light-fingered gentry took advantage of this circumstance, to rob a gentleman of a gold watch-key and seals one of the vergers was also plundered of a pair of silver-mounted spectacles. At the Guildhall, York, on Saturday week, an information was laid against a person named Parker, for leaving a heap of dirt in Coney-street, by which the Hull mail was overturned on the preceding Thursday evening. It appeared a man had been placed at the spot to watch, but had gone home to his supper. Parker was ordered to pay the expense of the damage done to the coach £1 14s. 6d. , a fine of 5s., and the costs. The following stale trick, which has been repeatedly at tempted and hut too frequently succeeded , at every horse fair in England, was last week played off at the Christmas show at York. A party of sharpers met with a green-horn, from the neighbourhood of Tliirsk, offering for sale a horse at the price of £25. One of the party offered him £23, which he refused-another offered to exchange with liim-and a third offered £24 for the horse he was to receive in exchange. Tiie exchange took place, but when he looked round for tlie man that offered him £24, he had decamped, and left the farmer to the jest and ridicule of the party. He was advised to make tiie lieat of the horse he had received, and in the end sold him for £9. Arrangements are making for a new mail coach, to com mence running on the 5th instant, to carry four inside and four outside passengers, to leave Leeds daily for Halifax, about half-past five, or as soon after tlie arrival oftlie London mail, as may be convenient. Among the list of gentlemen, to whom his Majesty has granted the dignity of Baronet, is tlie Honourable Edward Mannaduke Vavasour, of Haslewood, in the county of York, brother of the Right Hon. Lord Stourton. Lord Wharncliffe lias presented the Rev. James Flowerdew with tlie livings of Essie and Nevy vacant by the translation of the Rev. James Miller. A JLoving Thief.-Yesterday week, the following ca iffte r c ttarheto. HULL CORN MARKET. Monday, December i . Our market, being hold ofl'our regular day, h s Ixyn but thinly with either buyer or Roller but anything offering in wheats wn ion it-i far greater proportion being of damp Wi fo bu the condition was taken of! by the millers freely at lust week's P r ij , '-' s ing quality w. u no alteration in old foreign. Oats and beans are both With at our last currency uui-iauim ■■■ out luiv u. t ara - - -out .alteration in value, and the demand for both continues very limited. The principal supply of barley has been from this neighbourhood alul Lincolnshire, which only meets a slow sale at our late quotations. In old r 'rinding parcels no alteration. K rjK sced is comparatively confined to few lands, and held firmly at our quotations. Linseed in limited demand at late price . . rr?H Ms .Vs . tls IMs . 5 's .Ms ofis Rapcsccd, to- Last in Rorwi vtme I itto, duty lbs a JM 'Os Linseed l Q i?.rti r r ri .'Sis Ifajie Cake , V i'on 1 15 . a 5 Os Linseed Cakes 10 Os Ditto, Foreign SI Os s bis Duties on Grain imported before 1st Jnlu. Wheat Harley ~-Heans., 1 0.18 Oats I Os Kd 15s Id 5s i I , 'H mi i is t Wheat, old Ditto, new Ditto,bushels, ,C0 17s. hi. Rye, nmu' Beans, s or 5 bushels, 4J2 2s. Od. Pea , 10 qrs. 0 bushels, C2 8s. Al. The above Return of British Corn only, is computed by the Imperial Measure, agreeably to the 7th and 8th ?co. IV. cap. 58. WAKEFIELD CORN MARKET. Friday, December 28. There is a good supply of wheat for this day's market as also a consiflcr-able quantity of barley and beans. In consequence of the holidays, we have a thin attendance of buyers. Wheat sells heavily at the rates of last week and barley likewise rules dull, but no less prices are taken. Beans have again receded Is. per quarter, and any thing exrq the dryest pared are difficult fo quit. Oats and shelling remain flic same in value, and the de mand still limited. No variation in other articles. Wheat, Suffolk and Norfolk, old, 55s to Ste-New, .Vta to flfis-Boston artd Wisliech, .Vis to 51s-new, 47s to .Vis-Yorkshire, old, 55s to Vis new lfis to 50 -Foreign, 48s to 52s qr. ofi'iOfo. Barley, Suffolk and Norfolk, new, . t2s to Vte--Fine, 85s-Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, 2S s to 31s-Foreign Malting, Ol to uOs-Grinding, I . 30s yy qr. imperial Beans, English, 51 s to 2 -New, 42s to 45 - Egyptian, 4 Is to 15s quarter of Ittlb. Oats, Potatoe and Poland, 32s to 3U fo- ur. imj on l-Mealing, English new, I Id to 12fd-Foreign new, II jd to l2 d-Riga and ArciwugcL 1.3d T stone. Shelling, new, 28s to 30s load. Malt, 44b to 12s-fine, 00s if load. Flour, 40s. to 42s. per sack. Rapcseed, English, £23, £21-Foreign,.£22 £25 last. Rape Cake, £5-Linseed Cake, £10. Arrivals.-Wheat, 5f537 qrs. Oats, 431 Bariev, 0014 Beans, 1571 Peas,97 Rapcseed, - Malt, 172 .'footling, 245 load.-, Hour, o bags Tares, 00 qrs. Linseed, 00 qrs. Rye, 001 qrs. CORN-EXCHANGE, MARK LANE. Friday, Dec. 28.-Our market, generally, has been very dull since Mon day, and wheat scarcely sells on so good terms, owing to the very large arrival of flour coast ways-upwards of IL000 sacks. Barley also is somewhat lower, in consequence of the largeness of tlie supply and beans and iieas scarcely sell on so good terms. In oats tl ere is very little business doing, hut we can scarcely call them cheajier. In other articles no variation worth notice. CURRENT PRICES OP OQAI.V, PER QUARTER. i oi ljefore the magistrates at our Court-House Leeds Mftry Ratty ftbley stated that she was a widow, and resided ii e at a small hou in Vienna-street, in this town. On the 15th ult. she was returning home from transacting some business in the town, when the prisoner, William Wood, came up to her and asked her whether §he was married, as he was in search of wife. Mrs. Riley asked him his name, trade, ami address, c. which he refuted to tell her. He walked with her as far as Quarry-Hill, where Mrs. Riley, not being quite atisfied with her strange suitor, went into a friend's house, and remained there some time. When she had gone about one hundred yards from the house, she was again joined by the prisoner, who renewed his suit with encreased vigour. They arrived afterwards at her house about nine o'clock. Ward went in and sat down, wliere he remained till five o'clock the next morning. On that day Mrs. Riley received informa tion that her mother was unwell, and on the following morning went to Huddersfield to see her. She returned home on Saturday week, and found Ward in the house she locked the door and kept him there till a constable was sent for and he was apprehended. On examination it was disco vered that lie had a pair of her late husband's shoes on his feet, •fore pawned a green silk scarf, and some otlier wearing iflfkrel belonging to Mrs. Riley. He was committed for trial'at tqe'next sessions.-Eteds Intelligencer. Church KWHIddism.-Mr. Mark Robinson, wlio has been in this town during last week, has been making a proposition to the clergy of this parish to add to the present system of the establishment, that of Church methodism. Twb meetings of the clergy were held last week, when Mr. Robinson bad the opportunity of stating his plan of proceeding. We under stand his communication met with a kind reception, but we have not heard even the substance of Iris address. If the plan lie now proposes be sometiiing like what lias been adopted at other places, we can give our readers an outline of it. Preachers are employed by the clergy, with salary of pAhaps £50 per annum, which is paid by tlie churchwardens out of the parish rates. It is their duty to meet the classes, renew the tickets quarterly, to receive the contributions of tlie members, and pay the proceeds into the hands of the church wardens, to hold love-feasts, to preach in places where there is not sufficient church accommodation, and at such times as will not interfere with the regular service of the establish ment. All the members will of course have the rites of lmp-tism, burial, kc. performed at the parish chinch, and they will he regular communicants at the altar oftlie Church of England. - Leeds Intelligencer, At the collegiate and parish church of Manchester, on Sun day week, no fewer than two hundred and thirty-six couples challenged the whole race of political economists to shew ' cause or just impediment why they should not respectively be lawfully joined together in holy matrimony. Bad as times are, our working classes, it would appear, will fiot be deterred by population theories, from following the bent of their inclinations. The Richmond Forest Yeomanry Cavalry, and the Craven Legion are now disbanded, and Lord Grantham and Lord Wharncliflfe's corps are retained. In both cases, the order, it is sitid, came directly from the Marquis of Lansdowne. On Friday week, a little boy, the son of Mr. Stephen Smith, ofWoodhouse, near Keighley, when .returning from school, was blown into the Sun Beck, and drow ned. It is said, tl £ engineer at Mr. Warner's factory at Lough borough, Leicestershire, has made a discovery which doubles the pow er of the steam engine and that he has been ottered £1000 for the secret. Oil Tuesday week, a meeting of more than 100 coach-pro prietors, was held at Leicester, and by adjournment, on Thursday week, at Market Harborough. The object of this meeting, was, we understand, to make a general regulation of coach fares, and to do away with that opposition which leads to furious driving, and frequently occasions the loss of life. We have likew ise heard that the question of steam-coaches was discussed. WHEAT. 8. S. 8. 8. Ditto, fine.- 50 Jl.51 New IK M White - in i 4 line , , M w RYU. Rye 30, 35 Tick, new t.i baiilby. Barley 2 30 OATS. MALT. Malt 50 41 Poland yq PEAS. Peas. Hoe 40 41 Potatoe ?7 1H General Average Price of Corn, per quarter, for the week ending Dec. IJ. IMPERIAL MEASURE. Rve .32ri ful I Keans r ---~----------- --W Barley.., ... 408 lid Peas r --- rr m-.lOd PRICE OF FLOUR IN LONDON. Per sacks delivered. Per sack on board ships. Town-made 45 to 50 I Essex ami Suffolk 38s to 4.1 Ditto Seconds 40s to 45s Norfolk and Stockton ... .35s to Ilfs Per qr Bran..! to 10s Fine Pollard.. 18 to22 . PRICE OF HOPS IN THE BOROUGH. Cud.-D ce aber 8 l POCKETS. Famham, fine £7 10 a £8 8 , seconds 0 0 7 0 Kent 4 4 -. 6 0 Sussex - 3 IS - 4 10 Essex 4 0 5 0 Kent Sussex . Essex BAGS. £3 12 a £5 0 3 3_ 3 15 3 10 there appeared to be a great nuinlier ol buyers of coflbe to a considerable extent, but the Oder they tendered were at prices below our last quoted prices tlie consequence is, no purchases are reported to have been effected. TALLOW.-Toward, the close of the lint week the tallow market enn-inucd to improve both in demand and price this morning tlie market U not so brisk, but there is not as yet any variation reported in the rurrenev The stock, in Ixindon, at present, consists of 3B,tlz casks the weekly di livery may lie quoted at 1, U! casks, at 3.Sr. cwt. OILS.-In oris there is not any material variation. COTTON.-In tlie cotton marked there is no alteration the sales for ri'e 'vwk eioliiia lasUiiftht Inclusive, are too inconsiderable tobe emimnatial I- Kl 1 11.- The latest sates of fruit are reported to he to some extent. Keel Smtma raisins at 47s. . lcntia ditto, held at 53s. In other descriptions of fruit there is no material alteration. SPIRITS-As is customary durloR Christmas week.but very little timi. ness ot any sort has been done iu Mincing-Lone, ami prices may be quoted nominally about the same as our last. A safe of alx.ut 100 puncheons of Upwards ha been submitted to at nearly a jicnny l gallon below the cur. rency, .and which is the only one, of any consequence, reported. Proof-and two t rent overproof, is. kl. to its. Id. l our to rise per cent, ditto, ottto, 28. ad. to 2s. Od. In Jamaica, although not much business doing prices continue firm. i AND WINES.-Tho demand of late for the home trade has been very considerable, but with little or no variation in prices. FROM TUESDAY NIGHTS GAZETTE, BANKRUPTS. Vm. Kendrick, Daventry-Northamptonshirc, grocer. Wm. Poyntor Lamb' Conduit-street, roestawkur. YV. Addison .am! J. Wren, Man chester, drapers. J. Bottolulev, WtJJikey, Yorkshire, clothidk T. Hoeik'H .Manchester, cordwaincr. J. B. Taylor, sen, and J. B. Tayltr, jun. ork port, Chester, iron founders. niviDENna W. Couplaml and YV. B. Colton, Liverpool, merchants, Jan. 19, at nn£ at the tieorge Inn, Liverpool C. Pashelfer ami J. Pasliollor, Huntingdon' bankers, Jan. 10, at eleven, at the George Inn, Huntingdon. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. P. M. Griffith, Birmingham, jeweller. FRIDAY'S G IZETTE. BANKRUPTS. P. Hod son, Coburg-place, Borough-road, glassfban. f. Haley. Bnunlcy. Leeds, wwllefocIothtHanufACtwrer. J. Horsley, R O. Hill, Bilfitcr-squarc, merchant . YV. Mardall, YVater-tone- braudy-merchant. John Monk-house, Camberwell, tavern-keeper. J. HamLaU, Kentish-tuwn, auctioneer. 8. Ihompson, Leighton Bussartl, Bedfordshire, str.aw-plat dealer. YV. War cup, 1 toil ford, Kent, j atent washing-nuchine-maitMfacturer. R. Parry, Uuthin, Denbighshire, linen-draper. BANKRUPTCIES ENLARGED. YV. H. Cooper, Canon-row, Westminster, dealer iu Homan cement. YV. Jussupfjun. Broad-street, Hatcliff, victualler. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. YV. B. Harrison, Manchester, cotton-dealer. DIVIDEND. R. Cook and R. Sutton, Barton-upon.Humber,Lincolnshire, corn-factors Jan. IU, at twelve, at the Kingston Hotel, Kingston-upon-HuU PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED J. Atkinson, jun.,A. EUam, and J. Kirk, Bradley Mills, Dalton. York shire, wood-cutters. B. Butterworth, G. Mailman, and E. Johuioo of Huddersfield, Yorkshire, merchants. CERTIFICATES-Jan. IS. M. Heaton, Royd's House, Haworth, Yorkshire, worsfed-spinner. J Muitimlalo, of Chester-le.Street, farmer. II. and T. Weal herald, of kirkoy Malzcard, Y'orkshire, llax-spinners. insolvents. J. Buttivant, Applodore, near hidtford, Devonshire, merchant. J. YVal. tors, Cwm-Corwg-House, near Newport, Monmouthshire, retail-brewer. 4 HULL Printed and Published bv and for the Proprietor T. TOPPING, OPPOSITE THE CHURCH-YAIID, LOWGATK. following Agents Barton, Hill. Beverley, Turner. Johnson Scaimi Bridlington, Furby Hrigg, Richardson Caistor, Nainby Grimsby, Skelton Gainsborough, Drury Driitic-ld, Turner laeds, Heaton Jneofn, Drury .iverjmol, Willmer Louth, J. J. Jackson And by all the Booksellers in fhe Lincolnshire Malton, Smithson, jun. Manchester, Forrest Newark, Bulge Newcastle, Walker Pontefract, Kfeock Scarbro', Mrs. Ainsworth Selby, Galpine Sheffield, Ridge Shields, Peart, Stockton, Milo Whitby, Kirby trincipal Towns In Yorkshire and 5ft 
Ibe Re-opened riCE. ...... ... --Inf, Hull, 1NG, Loser may j her, and pay-fic Hull Packet Dec. 1827. s of the New e the opening Inner, at the l inuary, 1828, friends to the requested to Iwards, or the ►Stewards. hanks to the frequenting ■ time he begs in ttie Centre lie despatch of llcveo o'clock iUtrrnoon. on y accomm have iMlies would I obey the iu-lostilities till Iwn. Unless try reason to Itizans of his Kir mediation infatuation, what insanity, could induce Fabvier or Cochrane to place themselves in hostile collision with the European powers This is inconceivable. The most deplorable part of the affair is, that, although decisive evidence will be thus afforded to the Sultan of the impartiality of the negotiating powers, and of their determination to enforce the armistice on all hands, the destruction of the Greek naval force, is an occurrence so consonant to his wishes as to tend inevitably to inspire fresh hopes of the ultimate subjugation of Greece. The writer of one of the paragraphs communicating the intelligence, seems to believe that this event will oblige the Sultan to accept the intervention. We regret to say we see the affair in a very different light, and cannot but consider it as a most afflicting piece of news, view it in what shape we will. The following extracts from the Gazette de France of Friday last, contain all that is at present known upon this important subject -Vienna, Dec. 18- Letters from Trieste announce that Admiral do Rigny has burnt, before Scio, the Greek fleet, which had refused to obey the in junction of the 24th Oct. Trieste, Dec. 16.-Admiral de Rigny burnt the Greek fleet at Scio, after having summoned Fabvier to suspend hostilities. This news, which has caused the greatest sensation, is official. Our Governor has lent a courier to Vienna. Vienna, Dec. 19.-News of the disaster of the Greek fleet, burnt by Ad. iniral Rigny, has arrived here. It is expected that this affair will force, forcera , the Sultan to accept the intervention. The Vienna article of the 18th also states that letters from Odessa of fhe 7fh, mention that accounts have been received from Constantinople that the Ambassadors had actually em barked on the 1st ultimo. The Augsburg Gazette, however, states on the authority of news from the same place, that the Ambassadors were only preparing to embark on the 1st. It is certainly possible that both accounts may be correct, as the latter accounts may have been written at an earlier hour of the same day, and it may actually prove that the Ambas sadors took their departure on the afternoon of that day.-We must therefore wait for further arrivals from Constanti nople, before we entirely conclude that the die is cast. Letters from Malta, dated 1st ult. state that Admiral Cod-RINGTON was making active preparations to put down the Greek pirates. Sir Thos. Staines, in the Isis, and a squadron were ordered on that service. Letters received on Friday from St. Petersburgh, dated 10th ult. state that the late victory over the Persians, by the Russians, has led to a preliminary treaty of peace. The Rus sians are to retain all the country to the north of the Araxes' and a small portion to the southward, and all the expenses Of the war are to be borne by the Persians. This account is confirmed by the French Papers. The building adjoining the Shambles at the end of Queen-street, intended for the new Corn Market, will be opened this day for public business. It possesses, we understand, every requisite for the purposes to which it is appropriated, in point of convenience. Thirty boxes are fitted up, to be let at a certain sum per annum, wherein samples can be exhibited, and other business transacted. The subscribers and friends to the institution celebrate the opening of the building by a dinner at the Kingston Hotel this day. Hull Winter Assemblies.-The second Ball this season took place last evening at the Assembly Rooms, in North-street. The company consisted of upwards of 130 individuals, comprising a large proportion of the wealth, beauty, and fashion of this district of our extensive and populous county. Dancing was kept up with spirit till half-past three in the morning, when the party separated, anticipating a renewal of the pleasures of the sprightly scene, at the next merry meeting. Miss Bradbury.-It will be seen, by an advertisement in another column, that this young lady's Concert takes place tomorrow evening. The selection comprises some very beautiful compositions, and altogether the performance promises to be of a highly popular character. We feel convinced that Miss B. will not fail, on this occasion, to receive the support to which her talents and laudable anxiety to please at all times, so amply entitle her. Mr. Calvert, of the Hull Theatre, we observe, has notified bis inteniion of delivering a course of Lectures on Elocution, at the Exchange Room, to commence on the 12th instant. The Literary and Philosophical Society have evinced the estimation in which they hold the talent of Mr. C. by giving their sanction to the undertaking i w feel assured, under these circumstances, that the success of this gentleman, upon the occasion in question, will be fully adequate to the opinion so generally entertained of his ability. Miss Foote.-We very much regret that the friends of the above lady, whose talents we admire, should think it neces sary to propagate the most absurd and fulsome puff's in her praise. Such conduct is unwise, as well as unjust to the public, and can be of no service to Miss F. Our attention has been called to this subject by observing a long article in two London papers, dated from this town, and quoted at the bottom Hull Paper, full of the most contemptible false hoods, not one word of which ever appeared in any paper published here. The article commences by telling the reader that in the olden time these are the very words used , the taste for theatricals was at a very low ebb in Hull, but that Miss Foote and Mr. Downe had contrived to infuse a new and better feeling! This is merely ridiculous but the next statement, unless the offspring of the grossest ignorance, is a wilful lie it says, on her last year's visit Miss F. received 300 guineas for six nights, besides having the grati fication of placing a large sum at the disposal of the treasury. Miss F. as most of our readers know, was never engaged in Hull until the present season, and therefore could neither receive 300 guineas on her last year's visit, nor aid the trea sury by leaving any sum at its disposal! The paragraph then states that Miss F. played Juliet and Maria Darlington four nights', that every box was taken for four nights ! and that she sung Buy a broom three times i. e. had a double encore on each nightof her performance! False, every word! We repeat, that such impudent trash as the above can be of no service to Miss Foote, and it would be prudent in that lady to suggest to her friends, how little necessity there can be for them to push their zeal to such unjustifiable lengths. On Wednesday last, a boy named Thomas Brown, was pushing a boat off from the vessel on which he was standing in the Old Harbour, when he unfortunately lost his balance and fell into the water, between the vessel and the boat, and was drowned. The body was not found till Saturday, and an inquest was held over it the same day, before George Coulson, Esq. coroner, when a verdict of accidental death was returned. The deceased was about eleven years old. Yesterday, at the MansioD-House, Mr. S. Alcock was con victed in treble costs, for levying a distress to the amount of 12s. fid. and charging costs thereon 6s. fid., being Is. more than the rate fixed by Act of Parliament. '.... A young gentleman, whose parents reside in this neighbour hood, was lately paying them a visit. Being a pupil of Christ's Hospital, at Hertford, he had come home arrayed in the ugly and outlandish costume worn by the boys of that establishment, and while here, frequently took his walks in tfle same garments. In one of these rambles, he was discovered by two countrymen who had never seen anything so strange before. Hi long blue-gown, leathern-girdle, yellow stockings, indispensablesnf theswne extraordinary complexion, and want of a hat partly convinced them that he was tome unfortunate maniac who had escaped from the Hull Refuge. They deter mined therefore to interrogate him, and should his language correspond with the strangeness of his appearance, they agreed to take him into custody. With this intention they went up to the object of their solicitude, and one of them asked who he was. The lad, having a mind to astonish the natives, answered in Latin, puer sum. P°o f am, indeed! said one of the rustics, we are very sorry for you, but must see you properly looked after. His answer had confirmed their suspicions, and they forthwith very uncere moniously dragged him to the nearest village, where the party was met bv one of the youth's friends, and he was fortunately rescued from the nervous grasp of his self-con stituted guardians. , . . . An ox of extraordinary weight and beauty was slaughtered at Market Weighton, on the 22dof December, by Mr. Robert Tindale He was bought of Mr. James Bradley, of Etton, had been drawn and fed by Lord Faversham, and was of his Lordship's short horned breed. He was six years old, and it is only eighteen months since he worked in the team, lie walked fifty miles as nimble as though he had not been fatted, and was thought to be the handsomest ox ever slaughtered. WeightFore quarter, 72 stone 31b. hind quarter, 51 t. 51b. loose fet, 20st. hide, 8st. 101b. -152 st. 41b. 141b. to the stone. . _ . It is intended to apply to Parliament for power to make a canal from the river Don, at Bailey, near Doncaster, through the townships'of Cantley, Awkley, and Finmngly, to join the Bicker Dike, which empties itself into the Trent, at Stotk-with, about four miles below Gainsbro'. . The Marquess and Marchioness of Wellesley arrived at Holyhead on Saturday week, from Dublin. Charles Mathews was to commence his engagement at Drury-lane theatre last night, in his character of liuskin in Killing no Murder. Encroachment of the Sea,-a constant encroachment of the sea is visible on the cliff bAween Bridlington and Barm ston, estimated at about six feet per annum. This regularly progressive destruction has, however, been carried so far be yond Us customary line, within the last six weeks, as to cause rather an extraordinary sensation in those best acquainted W .l! 1 P ™° me , na of a similar kind. In some places 15 feet, in others 20, and even 30 feet from the cliff, the carriage road along tins part of the country has passed away within the last month and, for nearly half a mile, this road has lately rolled do wn into the sea, to be deposited nobody knows where, lhe contiguous land, lately supported by the cliff, is now to be seen, much loosened by the loss of its wall, and in a dis located state for many yards from the cliff-top whether these broken portions arc destined to fall quickly, or to remain another year, is a question of little consequence they must soon be mingled in confusion. The appearance, at pre sent, is as that occasioned by an earthquake. A temporary road is made between the undisturbed points and a new road is in a forward state of preparation. Much damage has of late been done all along the eastern coast of Suffolk from Aldborough to Lowestoffe, in conse quence of an unusually high tide, accompanied by a violent gale of wind. At Easton farm, full four acres of land, the property of Sir T. Gooch, Bart, and apart of it with agrowing crop of turnips, were carried into the sea. So violent have been the attacks of the watery element on this spot, that during the occupation of the present tenant more than forty acres have been taken away by the same means. The inhabit ants of the little town of Soutliwold, situated on the coast about a mile to the south-west from Easton Cliff for many years past the summer resort of much company were at the same time thrown into great consternation and alarm. The sea rolling tremendously against the Gun-hill-the favourite walk and most fashionable part of the town-a great part of it was washed away, and so undermined that large masses of the hill fell down. A public walk, called the Ladies' Walk is entirely destroyed and serious apprehensions are enter tained for the safety of many valuable houses near the sea, should there be a recurrence of a similar visitation.-Suffolk Herald. On Friday last, Mr. W. Thompson, of Driffield, was robbed of notes to the amount of £12, in the passage of the Fleece Inn, in the Market-Place. A woman named Mary Price was apprehended a few hours aftet, by Taylor, one of our police, and was fully committed on the following day, to take her trial for the offence at the approaching Sessions, Most of the money was found in her possession. The Annual Meeting of the Members of the Lyceum, was held at their room in Parliament-street, on Monday evening, Mr. Henwood, the President, in the chair who introduced the business of the evening by referring to the increasing prosperity of the institution. The whole debt, now amount ing to only £30, could be discharged at any time the society thought proper to pay off the remaining shares a much greater number of books had been admitted during the past year, than in any former one since the institution commenced As twenty-one years have elapsed since the first establish ment of the society, it was proposed by John Crosse, Esq that the members should dine together at an early oppor tunity, to commemorate the event, which was cordially agreed to. The following gentlemen were elected to serve upon the Committee for the ensuing year -Mr. James Henwood, Mr. George Locking, John Crosse, Esq. F.S.A. Mr. John Exley, Rev, James Colquhoun, Rev. William Wilson, Dr. C. Alderson, Mr. Thomas Buchanan, C. M and Mr. Wm. Gardner. Those marked were re-elected The society at present consists of 257 members. Mr. William Richmond, the President of the Ship-owners' Society, North Shields, has this last week addressed a long letter to the Honourable H. T. Liddell, M. P. for Northumber land, upon the sufferings of British ship-owners. In some points those two gentlemen's opinions are at variance. On Thursday morning, an attempt was made to rob the horse-post from Thirsk to Boroughbridge, by two ruffians, one of whom seized the reins of the horse, and the other struck the rider so violent a blow as nearly to force him from the saddle. The villain who had seized the reins, however, lost his hold, and the rider escaped with the letter bags in safety ThetownofGreat Yarmouth, Norfolk,on Wednesday,Thurs day, and Friday in the week before last, was in a most extraordi nary state of excitation, from the discovery of the exhumation of several bodies from the church-yard of that parish, by a gang of resurrection men. It is supposed there have not been less than twenty bodies removed, as well ax many others from the neighbouring church-yards. Two of the resurrection men are in custody. We understand that, within a few days, accounts, if possible still more disheartening than before, as to the American affairs of Messrs. Jeremiah and William Thompson, ofRawden, have reached this country.-Leeds Intelligencer. The Weather -Such is the present unprecedented mild ness of the weather, that we are infonned gooseberries are at present forming upon some trees in this neighbourhood.-Daisies were gathered upon one of the highest hills in this vicinity on Wednesday.-Bradford Courier. An accident occurred on Wednesday evening during the irformance at Mr. Powell's Circus, m. -Rridge-street,- Br A-'ord. In consequence of the crowded state of the gallery, one of the supporters broke, and part ef the flooring gave way. Several females fainted from fear, but not the slightest injury was sustained by any of the audience. On Tuesday evening last, as Richard Parkinson, overlooker to Messrs. Richard Fawcett and Son, of Bradford, was return ing from Horton to Bradford, about seven o'clock, he was stopped at Clay ton-lane-end, near Manville House, by four men, who seized him and threw him down. After attempting to stop his mouth, they proceeded to rifle his pockets, but providentially they did not succeed in accomplishing their pei fm purpose. The final resolution is now taken by the parties interested in the intended navigable canal fromWakefieldtoFerrybridge, to apply to Parliament during the ensuing session, for an act t make and maintain such canal. Thestrugglein Parliament last session between the Aire and Calder Company and the Wakefield and Ferrybridge Company was most arduous, 130 members having voted for the new canal, and 135 against it, constituting a larger number of members than was ever before known to assemble in the House of Commons to vote on an inland navigation bill.-Bradford Courier. ' Wholesale Poaching-The poachers in this part of the country have now hit upon the expedient of congregating in great numbers, for the purpose of intimidating those who have the care of game pre-serves. A body of sixty or seventy men assembled in this way and went to Templenewsam, near this town, the seat of the Marchioness of Hertford, on tlie night of yesterday week, ten of whom were armed with guns, and the rest with sticks and bludgeons. The residents of the mansion, of course heard what was going on in the grounds, for the plunderers shot game within five yards of it, but the inmates per ceiving wliat vast numbers were assembled, and there being compa ratively few keepers and watchers at hand, they did not venture to offer any resistance. The poachers were therefore allowed to proceed in their depredations, and they brought away no small quantity of Christmas presents. Early in the morning of Thursday an express was sent off to Leeds for assistance, but the only civil power on duty were the watchmen, upwards of thirty of whom collected at six o'clock, the time at which they go off their rounds, and were despatched to Templenewsam by different routes. The poachers had, in all proba bility, left the grounds before tlieir arrival, or had retired in a different direction to that in which the watchmen approached, for the poachers and the watchmen never came in contact with each other, or it is probable the result might have been serious. We have not heard that any of the parly have been apprehended. Two poachers, being part of a gang from the neighbourhood of Dewsbury, were apprehended on the grounds of J. C. Brandling, Esq. of Middleton Lodge, near this town, on the night of Sunday week one of them had two pheasants in his possession, and the other w as lying upon a gun. On Tuesday they were taken before the West Riding magistrates, assembling at the office of Messrs. Smith and Hutchinson, in this town, when the man who was found lying on liis gun was dismissed, because it was not in his hand, and the other was fined £5.-Leeds Intelligencer. Several very bold attempts at robbery, independently of small pilferings, have occurred in Lincoln lately. On Friday night week, a noise was heard by oqe of the .neighbours as of persons moving about in the back yard of Messrs. Norton and Whitton, near the waterside, and in the morning it was found that a most persevering attack had been made on the count ing-house the door, a remarkably solid one, had resisted the efforts of the thieves, though much broken, and some of its bolts undone, yet owing to an ingenious patent lock no entry could be made. It is supposed that the thieves must have been occupied for an hour in these attempts, and that a chance light in a neighbouring tenement caused them to desist.-About nine o'clock on the same night, Mr. R. Hoyle, farmer, of Heighington, was struck a violent blow by some unseen person, near the National School, and being made insensible thereby, wasrobbedofabout£16, retaininghiswatchandabout £3. On Saturday night week, the warehouse lately belong ing to Mr. Cuttill, but now to Messrs. Hooker and Co., on Brayford Wharf, was broken into, and some leather stolen, of comparatively small value it is fortunate that the warehouse was almost empty had two vessels been unladen, which had arrived the same day, a rich booty would have been obtained. There is reason to suppose that the thieves in most of these instances are inhabitants, especially in the last-mentioned, as some time ago, a very powerful and ferocious dog, which had belongedto Mr. Cuttill, and had been long a safeguard to the premises, was poisoned. The Magistrates of Newcastle have forwarded a representa tion to the Duke of Northumberland, Lord Lieutenant of the county, that if the Newcastle Yeomanry Cavalry are dis banded, a larger military force will be requisite there. The Marquis of Cleveland has disbanded the South Tyne Hussars. The remainder of the Local and Provincial Intelligence will be found in the last page.J Suicide in Manchester.-On Monday morning the 17tb ult. a young man, a foreigner, Trapp by name, a native of Hamburgh, clerk in a German house in Manchester, put a period to his existence. He first took laudanum, then shot himself with a pistol,and lastly stabbed himself with a stiletto. THE THEATRE. On Wednesday evening, Miss Love, a lady who has obtained considerable celebrity in the metropolis, by her Bprightly and versatile talents as a comedian, as well as by her vocal abilities, made her first appearance at our Theatre, in pursuance of an engagement for five nights, entered into with Mr. Downe. The character selected for her debut Atrocious Murder . Bishops Wahham, Tier. 27.-We have the melancholy duty of adding the following to the list of barbarous murders which have of late been perpetrated in various parts of the country. On Saturday evening, about half past eleven, the body of a young man, named Harms-worth, was found on the road side between Titchfield and Fareham, in Hampshire, most barbarously mangled. Several Wives. She went through the part with a spirit and .vivacity of manner that produced a very striking impres sion upon the audience, and sang several songs in the most bewitching style that can be imagined, evincingatthesame time the precision and taste of a finished vocalist. Her voice is clear, powerful, and melodious, the lower tones particularly full and sweet, with a flexibility that enables her to execute passages of rapidity with case and certainty. Her mode of giving a run of consecutive toaps from the highest pitch of hor voice, terminating firmly on a note of extraordinary depth for a female, was much admired, and drew frequent plaudits from the house. Most of her songs were unanimously encored. I've been roaming, Why are you wandering, in the play, and the Light guitar in the afterpiece, were strikingly effective. Mr. Downe in Admiral Franklin, and Mr. Dodd in Billy Lackaday, played with their usual talent, and kept the audience in high good humour. Miss Davies in the part of Eugenia, exhibited much ability in the delicacy and pathos with which she made her appeal to the Admiral as the daughter of his old friend. The afterpiece, Giovanni in London, was extremely well got up, and Jfflorded Miss Love an opportunity of displaying her peculiar talents to M est advantage. As the hero of the piece, the rakish Don, she ajp? and spirit personified. Her every look, word, and motion. tocmu wfth sparkling vivacity. Indeed, we do not recollect to have seen on any ctage a lady who possesses the spirit and animation of Miss Love j certainly not one who, with a high cul tivation of the musical art, combines every requisite for a first-rate comic actress. Her Buy a broom in the character of a Bavarian peasant, was exquisite. This is a composition written expressly for her, and differing tolo ccclo from the songs with that title given by some of her contempo raries. She sings it with peculiaj and irresistible humour, and imitates the voice and manner of the itinerant vender to the very life. Miss L. ai -peared last week, as Young Meadows in Love in a Village, Maria in Of Age To-Morrow, Rosalind in As You Like It, and Paul in Paul and Virginia, and was in all these characters eminently successful. Last night she personated Zelinda in The Sttsoe, and Repeated the character of l on Giovanni, with increased applause. SPORTING INTELLIGENCE. CHASE, Ac. The Holderness Fox Hounds, meet at Danthorpe, this day, JFan. 1 at Scorbro', on Thursday and at Beeford on Saturday-each day at eleven o'clock. SirTatton Sykes' Fox Hounds, meet at Bishop Wilton Beacon on Wed-Plantation on Frit nesdav, Jan. 2 and at Knapton.i ton o'clock. Lord Yarborough's Fox Hounds, Fridayeach morning at t on Wednesday, Jan. 2, at Melton Low Wood on Friday at Elkington Cow Pasture and on Saturday at Thornton College-each day at Eleven o'clock was that oFBma in the musical play of Sweethearts and 9tabs appeared in var ous parts 0 f the body, one of his ears was cut off, and the head nearly severed from the trunk.-The following particulars have transpired -The unfortunate young man was of the most sober and inoffensive habits, and worked as a journeyman bricklayer at Gosport. His master, owing to the scarcity of employment during the winter, had discharged all his workmen except the deceased. This pre ference, on the part of the master, had given rise to the most bitter animosity towards Harmsworth, in the breasts of his fellow-workmen. On Saturday evening, they vowed ven geance,and one ofthem.by name Sheppard, followed him from Gosport, towards his home near Titchfield, with oaths and imprecations. He entered a public-house on the road, and borrowed a knife for the purpose of eating provisions lie had with him, which knife was found lodged in the throat of the deceased, and has been identified by the landlord as the one furnished by him to Sheppard. His hands, when he was taken into custody, were found covered with tar but the surgeon discovered, beneath the finger nails, remains of blood and gore. His shirt-sleeves, also, had been just washed. The prisoner's agitation was excessive. The occurrence has occa sioned an extraordinary sensation in this part of Hampshire. -Morning paper. Horbible Depravity.-On the 12th ult. Margaret Parr, residing in Coilege-lane, near St. Helen's, was brought before two ofhis Majesty's justices of the peace, charged with having destroyed an infant, to whiifiishe had lately given birth.-Col. Williams, of Woolton, received information of the affair in an anonymous letter. She, for a long time, persisted in asserting her innocence but, when the evidence against her became too strong for further denial, she admitted the she had had a child, and had destroyed it by putting it on t • Though this hellish deed had been perpetrated a for. . it previous to her apprehension, the constable found, in the ash-hole, a part of the back and shin bones, which he afterwards produced in evidence before the court. The daemon of a mother was finally committed to Lancaster Castle, to take her trial. -Liverpool Mercury. Daring Outrage.-On Monday evening, some daring ruffian discharged a blunderbuss loaded with slugs, against a window of the drawing-room of Count Munster's house, at Putney Hill. The family, of course, were greatly alarmed the slugs broke eleven panes of glass, and lodged in the shutters, which were closed at the time. A gig or light cart was heard to drive off in a gallop after the shot but in con sequence of the confusion it caused was not pursued. A Child with Two Faces.-A most extraordinary caprice of nature occurred in this town Taunton on Sunday morn ing last, in the birth of a female child having two distinct and perfectly-formed faces. Elizabeth Verrier, the mother of the child, is the wife of a carpenter, residing in Hoi way-lane. She had, previously, seven healthy children, none of them exhibiting the least deviation from ordinary nature. In the present instance there was no prematurity of birth the child lived three quarters of an hour, and in the course of that period cried very audibly three times. Every component part of the faces is distinctly formed in each, and both of them present the pleasing countenances of two fine babes. At that part of one of the faces where the usual formation of the ear takes place, the additional face commences, with a slight un dulation towards the cheek of the second face, which then proceeds through all its regular features until it terminates at the left ear-so that the face on the right side has one ear, and the face on the left one also. The space on the back of the head is, from the encroachment of the faces, very limited but it is, as well as the upper part of the head, covered with hair. In all other respects the child is regularly formed.-Taunton Courier. Fire at York-House, Bath.-A little before three o'clock this morning, Tuesday a cry of fire from several voices aroused the neighbourhood of York-House. The fire first made its appearance from a window or aperture under the lofty gateway of York House yard. It is supposed to have originated in the upper room of Mr. Simpkins, saddler, who occupies the bouse fronting Broad-street, on the right hand side of the gateway. The strength of the flames from this aperture was evidently very powerful, as if the fire had been stifled for some time until it had gained a current which enabled it to burst forth with terrific fury. The proprietor of York House, Mr. Reilly, and his sons, were immediately aroused, and were with the utmost promptitude on the spot. The inmates of the bedchamberswere also quickly downstairs, with their luggage. The engines were shortly brought, and the various reservoirs of water n the neighbournooa were soon opened. The fire, however, increased until the whole of the immense pile of buildings including the shops of Mr. Simpkins, and Mr. Knight, broker, which are under the ball room were in one devouring blaze! Mr. Reilly's plate was all saved. We hear that the stock and furniture were in-7'0 MERCHANTS, ATTORNIES, OR OTHERS rffltVO OFFICES to LET Entrance in Churcb-l-uie, and I fronting the Market-Place, at present in the occupation of Messrs. Eglin and Saundkrson. For particulars inquire at No. 16, Market-Place. Hull, Dec. 24, 1827. • EAGLE LIFE ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION, 83, CORNIIILL, AMD 10, WATF.RLOO-PLACF, ESTABLISHED 1807. Distinct. Tables for Male and Female Life. T HE Directors have caused New Tables to be calculated, on which the relative values of the Lives of the two sexes are, at all ages, distinguished, in consequence ol this improvement. The Younger Male Lives are insured at premiums below the ordinary rates. The Female Lives at rates lower than any other Office. Lite Assurance may be effected for North and South America, for tlie East Indies, for any of the British C l ni or Garrisons, for a continual or an especial Maritime risk, fur the whole of Life, or for the duration of any Military, Civil, or Diplomatic Duty. Pour-fifths of the Profits are divided among the Assured, whether at Home or Abroad. HENRY P. SMITH, Actuary. Agent for HULL Mr. BRIGGS GAUL1LL. BETTING AT TATTERS ALL'S, THURSDAY. Mr. Thornhill's Merchant, and Sir T. Mostyn's Ultimatum, increased the St. Lcger field, to-day, and were backed to a considerable amount.-Johanna Southcote not yet named for it was also backed. The north country nomination for the St. Leger is not yet very great. The odds closed thus -Derby.-7 to 1 agst Merchant Oto 1 agst The Colonel 11 to 1 agst Sorcery colt 15 to 1 agst Druid 20 to 1 agst Shoveler colt 22 to 1 agst Folly colt 22 to 1 agst Amy colt j 22 to agst Johanna Southcote colt 21 to 1 agst. Mariner 25 to 1 agst each of Lord Grosvcnor's 25 to 1 agst Omen 25 to 1 agst any other, j 500 to 400 Johanna_Southcote agst Amy, taken . St. Leger.-The only horses backed were-25 to 1 agst Merchant taken . 30 to .1 agst Ultimatum, taken . 50 to 1 agst Stapleton taken . 50 to 1 agst Johanna Southcote colt taken . I.ord Lowther's Derby colt, Punster, is dead. Mr. Payne's Derby colt by Srnoiensko, out of Lady Ern, is gone to Van Dieman's Land. Sir Bellingham Graham and Mr. Best, members of the Malton Coursing Society, have purchased, of Mr. Hassall, at the price of fitly guineas, the celebrated greyhound, Hercules. He has been beaten only five times out of thirty-four courses, that he has run at the meetings of established Coursing Societies. He has won three cups, and one goblet. Sale of Hunters.-The following draft from Lord Southampton's stud was sold by Messrs. Tattersall, on Monday week' Silvertail, £126 Edwin, £23 10s. Exchange, £73 Ifts. Mountaineer, £59 17s. Ashton, £45 3s. Hotspur, £50 Strawberry, £04 1 s. Rubena, by Rubens, out of Louisa, by Pegasus, was bought in. All the horses are well known in Leicestershire. THE RING. Baldwin and Neal.-The second deposit for this fight was made good on Wednesday evening, at Josh. Hudson's, Half Moon Tap, Leadennall-market. The odds on Ned Neal are 7 to 4, and 2 to 1. The fight is to take place on the 11th of March. Brown of Bridgnorth and Philip Sampson.-Those men are matched for £250 a-side the fight to come off half way between Birmingham and Bridgnorth, on Tuesday the 8th of April, Easter Tuesday. The parties met on Monday evening, at the Woodman, Birmingham, in consequence of an invitation from Brown. Qamnson is the favorite with the Brurnma-■em Fancy, who have thus taken the lead of the Londoners, and robbed em Ward ofhis chance. Jack Carter, once a candidate for the championship, will be discharged from the hulks at Chatham, in a few days. He solemnly protests his inno cence of the crime of which he was found guilty-that of stealing a coach parcel and promises to make that innocence apparent to the world. MISCELLANEOUS NEWS. The King has presented the Birmingham Musical Festival Committee with a copy of Dt. Arnold's valuable edition of Handel's Works, in 43 folio volumes. Don Miguel was hourly expected at Gravesend, but'i ad not arrived on Saturday afternoon. It is not generally known that his late Royal Highness the Duke of York left a family of a son and daughter, the latter of whom is married, and is the ihother of some most beautiful children, whose likeness to th ir grandfather is Very remark- J HHSS the amount of £0009. Tlie eatent of premises which able.-Brighton lafetfe, j have thus fallen a prey to the destructive element, may be The venerable Ear! Fitzwijliam has left Dublin on his re turn to this country. Before quitting the Irish metropolis, he was splendidly entertained at a public dinner, given by the Roman Catholics. The Gazette of Friday night contains some diplomatic appointments, of which thq chief are, that of Sir W. A'Court from Portugal to St. Petersburgh, and that of Sir F. Lamb, with a step in rank, from Spain to Portugal. Poor Mr. Ex-Sheriff Parkins is confined with a broken leg, which he got in a wrestling bout with a fellow lodger at an hotel in this city.-Letter from Quebec. Quarter's Revenue.-We understand that the produce of the revenue during the present quarter, up to the beginning of the week, is less by upwards of £300,000 than in the cor responding quarter of last year.-Chronicle. On the above subject, the Times says-The beliefprevails that the quarterly accounts will exhibit a considerable deficiency, as compared with the corresponding quarterly return of the preceding year. The Watchman says the deficiency will be £400,000 and the Standard, £600,000, We understand that a further exportation of about 180,000 ounces of silver coin took place on Saturday last, by a vessel which left the river for Calais on that day. There was also about 2,000 ounces of gold bullion sent to Rotterdam at the sane time. Nearly the whole of the above quantity has been shipped through the medium of an agent of Mr. Rothschild.-Globe of Wednesday. The business of the branch of the Bank of England, estab-lishedat Exeter, commenced on Monday morning week, at their banking-house, Soutbernhay-place, under the charge ofH. P. Hyde, Esq. agent, and G. C. Holroyd, Esq. sub-agent.-This is one of the places which lately memorialized against a branch being established there. Mildness of the Season.- Two bunches a penny prim roses ! was crying on Monday morning week at Newington and several parts of London. The Thames Tunnel Company have obtained a loan from government, with interest at only two per cent., sufficient for the completion of the undertaking. A new code of signals is to be brought into general use in the navy, as soon as possible. Contemplated Forgery on thb Sunderland Bank, About ten days ago, Mr. Martyn, an engraver in Holborn, received a letter by the post, dated Darlington, Durham, signed James Brown, stating that the writer could give him a lucrative order, the particulars of which could not be communicated, unless he first gave him a solemn assurance of inviolable secrecy. Mr. Martyn, after some consideration, showed it to Sir R. Birnie, who recommended him to promise secrecy,and request his correspondent to be more explicit. Mr. Martyn complied with the advice, and next post brought up an answer, inclosing a £1 note of the Sunderland Bank, an d requesting that a note for plates exactly similar might be en graved, as the writer had an opportnnity of setting five hun dred of them afloat, without fear of detection. This letter, with its inclosnre, was handed to Sir R. Birnie, who imme diately held a conference with Mr. Gates, solicitor to the Committee of Bankers, the result of which was, that Taunton, the officer, was sent to Darlington, where he succeeded in apprehending the writer and on searching his lodging, found the letter which Mr. Martyn had written, and a seal corres ponding with the impression o those he had received.-Taunton has not yet returned, nor has any advice of an examination of the prisoner in the country been received.-London Paper. The Newcastle Courant states, that the de linquent's name is Edward Brown, and that he is a sur geon in respectable practice. stated to be about 100 feet in length, 60 in depth, and 70 in height. The whole of the costly furniture and effects in this extensive range was destroyed so that the premises are now a mere shell. Mr. Dallimore's loss, of the Turk's Head, must be very considerable, as nearly all the furniture was destroyed, I and seven or eight pieces of strong beer, containing from 2 to 3000 gallons each, which were in his cellars, burst, and of I course the contents were lost. A quantity of malt and hops was also consumed. Ilalf-past 12 p. m.-Since writing the above, the part of the building above the saddler's shop, which was of great height, has fallen in with a tremendous crash No injury done.-Bath Gazette, Dec. 25. HULL GENERAL INFIRMARY. IN-PATIENTS. I 0VT-PATIENT9. Discharged, Cured, c. - I I Discharged, Cured, c. . Admitted 1 Admitted Vaccinated by the House-surgeon - 15. Dr. Alderson, Physician-Mr. Young, Surgeon. Mr. Robert Corlass, Ho-ise-visitor. Chaplain, Rev. J. Scott. Masquerade.-The first ofthese entertainments this season was celebrated on Thursday night, at the Argyll Rooms, under the direction of the celebrated Charles Wright. The name of that indefatigable purveyor of Champagne is so iden tified with all masquerades in the metropolis, that it is diffi cult to separate them and it, even in idea. His name needs only to be announced to attract all the lovers of fun. The rooms were well filled, and the various natives of ire, of air, of earth, of water, displayed themselves for the amusement of their friends and of themselves good humour and Wright's Sparkling were the main objects of attention. It has some times happened that the frequenters of these motley scenes have deemed laughter injurious to their health, if we might judge by their extreme abstinence from it. But the merry On theZfith ult in Sffiei,,, 1 x guests of Thursday evening seemed very gluttons in that Charloton, Es j. M.l ._a highly tafentai individual, mid whose amusement, and did not trouble themselves about what I a ' - 0 were ai i ainted with his disinterest evertmna u. crabbed critics might think. If they did only sometimes I please, at least they always had the desire to do so and those present generally gave them credit for the former, through the merits of the latter. We will here conclude by observing that Charles Wright has, with this masquerade, added a new i claim to the many he already possesses on public favour, BIRTH. On Friday week, at Canon Hall, near Barnsley, the lady of J. Spencer Stanhope, Esq. of a son and heir. MARRIACI??. On Wednesday last, at Sculcoatcs church, Mr. B. Lewis, cooper, to Miss Mary Skinn, both of this place. On Sunday week, at Christ's Church, by the Rev. John King, M.A. Mr. Robert Harrison, of the Bail, Lincoln, to Miss Johnson, of the Ladies' Seminary, Sykes-street, in this town. On Thursday week, Mr. John Spence, of Halifax, gent, to Mrs. Hodgson, ?lict of the late John Hodgson, Esq. ormerly of Hull. On Sunday week, at .St. Mary's tBrch, Beverley, .Mr. George Mcdcalt, cooper, to Ann, eldest daughter of MY. E. Jones, all of that place. On Saturday week, at Lockington, by the Rev. Francis Lundy, Mr. W. Cook, to Rebecca, youngest daughter of Mr. Robert Hardy, all of the same place. On Tuesday last, at Grimsby, Mr. Bowen, exciseman, to Miss Mary Web ster, both of that place. On the 22d ult. at Eston in Cleveland, Mr. Wm. M'Cree, to Miss Bean. DEATHS. Last night, after an illness of only two hours, to the inexpresssible grief ofhis family and friends, Mr. Thomas Randerson, taiior, aged 60. He was an honest, upright man, and will be sincerely regretted by all who knew him. On Sunday night, aged 52, universally regretted, Mr. George Scaum, of this town, formerly a respectable bookseller at Scarborough, and father to Mr. G. Scaum, bookseller, of Beverley. On the 26th ult. aged 49, Ann, the beloved and affectionate wife of Mr. v illiam Morlcy, merchant, of Doncaster. The calm serenity with which, through divine grace, she was enabled to meet death, server to soothe the grief of her bereaved family and mourning friends. At Colombo, Island of Ceylon, on the 30th Juno last, aged 24, Margaret the beloved wife of the Rev. Benjamin Clough, Wesleyan missionary, and daughter of Mr. William Morlcy, merchant, or Doncaster and though the climate made it necessary the interment should take place the next day, yet, with this short notice, so highly was she valued, that the greater imrt of the respectable European inhabitants of the city attended the funeral in deep mourning and Sir Richard Ottley, the Chief Justice, and some other '■ ntleinen of the colohv, have made preparations to erect a monument to her remembrance at their own expense, as a small token of the public estimation in which she was held during her residence of two years on the island. On Saturday morning, in Parliament-street, in this town, aged 57, Eliza beth, the wife of Mr. Peter Marshall, late of Scarborough. On Friday last, aged 69, Mr. Joseph Tumraon, of this place, broker upwards of forty years in the o nploy of Messrs. Smiths and Co. Gainsbro'. On Tuesday morning last, much respected, aged 66, Mr. George Long, of this place, schoolmaster. On Wednesday last, aged 12 months, R. S. Kirk, son of Mr. Kirk, of this town, draper. On Thursday last, aged 22, Thomas Boynton, son of Mr. Geo. Morlev, innkeeper, Market-place, in this town. On Sunday morning week, aged 22, Alfred, youngest son of Mr. George Cockman, of this town. At tlie Colleges of Glasgow and Edinburgh, he had attained very gratifying literary distinction, and proceeded to the degree of Master of Arts. Through a lingering decline, he evinced the most entire resignation to the divine will, with a calm and cheerful confidence of a blessed immortality. On Sunday week, in his 55th year, Robert Woodhouse. Esq. Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge, and nephew to Dr. Alderson, of this town. On Wednesday last, much respected, aged 73, Mr. William Cash, of Beverley. On Wednesday morning last, after a long illness, aged 31, Charlotte, wife of Mr. Matthew Robinson, farmer, of South Cave. On the 18th ult. at Brandesburton, aged 29, Rebecca, eldest daughter of Mr. Henry Edmunds, late of the Cross Keys, at that place. Yesterday week, at Grimsby, Mr. James Goulton, of that place, merchant. ,.2?? nda y last Miti-Jane Close, daughter of the late Mr. Thos. Close, of Whitby, stonemason. On Tuesday last, Mrs. Marwood, widow of the late Mr. John Marwood. of Whitby, Ship-owner. On Christimus-day, after a long and painful affliction, borne with trulv Christian fortitude and exemphry patience, aged 5S, Helen, mother of Capt. Darling, at his residence, 1 horpe Bassett Academy, near Malton. h. V'i' ?? CT a protracted and severe illness, aged 50, Mrs. Shop, herd, wife of Mr. Wm. Shepherd, of Rawcliil! 4 JohnFnth, iV of Rose Hill, near Rotherham. On.thcZOth ult. aged IJ, Mr. Ihomas Waites, of Sowerby, near Thirsk On the tilth ult. the Rev. Christopher Anstey, vicarof Norton near stock ton, the reputed author of the Bath Guide. ' ear stock-33, Charles . uainted with his disinterested exertions in tlie cause of suffering humanity, is acknowledged to be a public lo s. T ' ' one daughter without cousin. She has only one SHIPPING XN'S'BM.XOSNOE. ARRIVALS At KtFL- 1 The M'.-nrettr l'rederi 'n, , firm this port At Copenhagen-The Fortuna, Bnkkcr, from this p r At Hamburg-Tlie Hope, Fea Diadem,Draper p.icl . t, Roach Gale, Briggs f Thornton, Hull ■, Active, Tucker all from this port At Antwerp-The Rebecca, Anderson, from this port. At Deal-The Georie .V Mien, Allison, from Charentc Frances Parker, from this port, for Ctnrcnte. Off Whitby, on the 28th ult.-The Foster, Bennett, from Quebec bound to this port. At Baiiia-The Express, Day,from Gibraltar. At Helvoet-The Apollo, Fairborn, from this port. Off Maroatc-The Ipswich, Combs, from Mitaiuichi, returned having been driven off by the ice. In the Trxel-The Mereurius, Br.kker, from this port At Tonningen-Tho Sun, Tieman, from London to Luheck, Jonge Jurg n, Brulin, from Oxenzee to London both wWvAunagi. having been surrounded with ice. Winds at Ileal-Bee. 24, WSW. squally 25. W. to WSW., 26, SW. 27, WSW. Winds at Falmouth-Dee. 24, W. fresh beeezes and squally ,125, SW., 26, SW. fresh breezes. Coasters Arrived at Wiiitbv-Miry Ann, Foster Sneaton, Wilson from London. Smales, Grey Alert, Mowatt Oak, Hii'. from Hull. Yami, Hall Eleanor Sc Ann, Davison from Sunderland John and Mary, Miller Minerva, Barnard from Stockton. Union, Smith, from Newcastle. SUlers, Boulton, from Alloa. Coaste.-.s Sailed-Dispatch, Webster Sisters, Boulton for London. Yarm Mali, for Hull. Brighton, Dccemlrr 21.-The Spring, from Bombay, which was driven on shore near Pngham, has become a complete wreck. Barmouth, Dec. 19.-The Vine, Nixon, of Sotttii Shields, was run down on tlie night of tlie 17th inst. by the Brothers, Retd, of South Shields crew landed here. Dec. 21 -'The Leander, Webb, of Shields, struck Oil the Scroby Sand bust nigbt, but gut off, and was assisted i ri by a boat. The Hope, of Sunderland, went on tile Scroby last night and sunk. Crew and materials saved. Harwich, Dec. 21.-One of tlie three vessels reported on tlie 19th inst. to be on shore on the Gunflcct Sand, is tlie Vesta, Thompson, from Memel, to London she tills every tide materials likely to he saved. 7 p. m.-Two smacks have just arrived from tlie Guulieet with tallow and hides, being part of tlie cargo of the Brothers, Steward, from Petersburg, it is expected she will become a wreck, hut most part of tlie cargo will be saved. Liverpool, Dec. 24.-Tlie wreck of the ship Favourite supposed of Shields was fallen in with by the Ann Elizabeth, from Malaga to Boston. 'Limerick, Dec. 17.-A British-built vessel of about 250 tons, timber, laden, sides painted yellow, no ports or head, masts gone, water logged, and abandoned, was fallen ill with on tlie 5th inst. in Iat. 50 long 30. by tlie Liverpool, Phillips, arrived here from Baltimore. Hemet, Dec. 15.-Tlie Union, Douglas, of Whitby, stranded here on the 29tli October, was entirely broken up by the heavy gale on the 9th and 10th instant. The weather is quite mild, and our harbour free from iee. Bremen, Dec. 14 -The Diligente, Menke, 1 which sailed on the 17th ult. for Hull, has put back with damage. Hamburg, lire. 11.-The Haabet, List, and the Apollo, Dunn, from Nordersluice to Hull, with oats, sailed thence on the 18th ofOctolier, and have not since been heard of. A trunk, with papers relative to the latter, has been washed on shore at Norden, East Friesland. Dec 14.-The Emma, Lamb, from Riga, ran aground on SaUholms, has got off and put into Copenhagen. Texcl, Dectmbtr 17.-'The Science, Allen, from London toHambro was totally lost on tlie 15th. Crew saved. Amsterdam, Dec. 15.-The Rika, Sir.it, which sailed on the 28th of October, from the Texcl for Hull, lias not since been heard of. The William, Dick, from Rotterdam to Dundee, has put back, damaged. Santa Crus, Tenerife, .Vov. 12.-Tiie Olyinpe, Quesnet, from Havre to Monte Video and liu r.os Ayres, was wrecked tlie end of last month on the coast of Africa. The passengers about 300, French English, Germans, and Swiss were saved by some Canary fishing boats, and brought IrrFon the 7th instant. In tlie Buenos Ayres papers, under date October 13, it is stated that tlie Brazilian brig of war. Twenty-ninth of August, Captain Wilson, was lost near Colonia, a few days since. The Captain, sou of Sir Robert Wilson with tlie greater part of the crew, drowned. Douglas, Isle of.Wan, December 15- During the severe storms which have visited the coasts of the Isle of Man within the last week, the Swedish barqueForiroender, of Carlscrona, Andrew Akerman master, from Marseilles, bound to Glasgow, witha valuable cargo of madder, put into Derby haven, where she took on board a pilot ami four men in addition to lier crew of twelve, but during the violent gale of tlie loth inst. she was compelled to leave her anchor in that Bay, and endeavoured to reach Douglas harbour. Having failed in the attempt, she let go her remaining anchor, but from which she soon oiler drifted among tlie breakers on the outside of tlie dangerous iusulated rock of St. Mary, in Douglas Bay, and with the first stroke unshipped tier rudder, and lay in a very hazardous state. The life boat, tlie boat of his Majesty's cutter Swallow, and two harbour boats, put offto her assistance, it was flist attempted by means of hawsers to bring the vessel into port, hut on her striking on the rock sand bilging, this w as given up, and tlie life-boat by letting go her anchor to windward, and veering down upon the wreck, was enabled to take all the people and most ol their personal luggage from her lee bow the boat of the Swallow relieved her of part of them, and the whole were thus rescued and brought in safety to Douglas, where every requisite ac commodation was provided for them by the Isle of Man Shipwreck Association. Cn Tuesday a small part of her cargo was landed, but from the'Severity of tlie weather on Wednesday and Thursday, her masts were carried away, and tlie hull completely broken up. In the services rendered to tliis vessel, tlie boat of his Majestv s cruiser Swallow, was commanded by Lieut. Strugnell, R.N., who rendered every assistance in his power. Sir Wm. Hillary had with him in the life-boat Lieut. Gretrix, R.N , Lieut. Robinson, R.N., and Mr.Hiliary. Mr. M'Meiken, agent lor packets, also attended in his boat A tribute •f respect is due to the prompt attention of the worthy Baronet, who was as usual the firsttoaid the wreck and save tiie crew.-Cumberland Parquet. Fort op Liverpool-On the 24th inst the half-yearly amount of the dock duties was made up. It presents the irmtifying feature of ar. increase over the corresponding half-year of 1826. hie number of vessels which have entered the port even exceed tlie corresponding hail-year of the celebrated year 1825. SOUND LIST. Ships Sf Captains From To Dec. 11. Vigilant, Thorp Riga Hull 12. Tertius, Brown Memel Ditto 13. Lord Nelson, Angus Riga Ditto 15. Jessy Watson, Cargill Ditto Ditto Ariadne, Ohlman Dantzig Ditto Minerva, Jordau Wyburg Ditto Elsinore, Dee. 18 -The Monarch, Harrison, of Whitby, from Memel, put into Copenhagen, leaky, on the 15th. The ships mentioned in our last remain. Winds-Dec. 9,10, W ll, 12, S 13, S. to SE 14, 15, S. to SW. 18, SW. 17, W. 18, SW. HULL-FOREIGN ARRIVED-From Lately, at Chesterfield, Dr. UaUclific, leaving father, mother, sister, or brother, uncle, aunt, or cc surviving relative, a grandfather. t .Jj? vL lf Vr ni Hubhn, aged 23, Miss Reid, only daughter of David 0™ '. Mdlbank, near K rmoy. She was to have been married to ot c Mrd Dragoon Guards, on Tuesday morning b . t . mBf i U h W °'A. Mo ' Kla y ni ht 8ct her night-dicus ©n lire, and as ao dreadfully burnt that she expired two days alter. ITambro', Twist, Jameson Frank fort, Willows Hanibro', Bouch Ann, Walker. Quebec, Foster, Bennett. Iliya, Betsey Black, Forman. Terceira, Vine, Bali. Dec. 24. Alicant, Aurora, . FOREIGN SAILED.-For Dec. 27. Amsterdiim, Jonge David, Kup-per. Antwerp, Etton, Vollans. COASTERS ARRIVED.-From Aberdeen, Fox, Gilbertson. Alcmoulh, Brothers, Marshall. Dublin, Vigilant, Evans. Dundee, Fife Packet, Buist. Glasgow, Gratitude, Dick. Leith, Hero, Scott John Watson, Tyrie. Lynn, Ellen, Hinchcliff Blag, don, Robinson Agenoria, Rip. pengale. COASTERS SAILED.-For Dec. 23. Hambro', Guard, Adam Irwell. Barron. Rotterdam, Providence Good In. tent, Atkinson. Dec. 29. Charente, York Merchant, Blake. London, Humber, Naylor. Newcastle, Margaret, Ramm, Emma, Stark. Scarbro', Ribston, Salmon. SHyo, Margaret, Finlay. Stockton, Cynthia, Mellanby. Sunderland, William and Mary, Barton. Yarmouth, Elizabeth and Mary, Pincher. Berwick, Argo, Hood. Burnham, Mayflower, Atkinson. Dundee, Tay, Wann. Leith, Trent, Calder Happy Re turn, Figgins. London, Mary, Chambers Man-Chester, Cusworth Ebenezer, Dalton luo, Laverack. Lynn, Dove, Garner Endeavour, Hamilton Thomas and Ami, Hodgson. Stockton, Argo, Evatts. Shields, Edward, Paul Friends, Henry Salacia, Grimston. Spalding, Bee, Townend Eliza, Tulley Blessing, Seymour. Sunderland, Wells Packet, Wabon, Planter, Woodhouse Thomas and William, Floodman. iVdls, Hopewell, Curson. Whitby, Alert, Mowatt Speed well, Clark. Yarmouth, Providence, Duffin. Jan 2. Wednesday 3. Thursday 4. Friday.... 5. Saturday.. 6. Sunday .. 7. Monday .. 8. Tuesday .. HIGH WATER Morning Tide. AT HULL. Evn. Tide. 41 past ft 0 .. 7 85 .. 7 H .. 8 43 .. 8 2ft .. J 0 .. 10 Feasts, Fasts, fyc. Full Moon. Epiphany. The Royal Charter Steam Packet, for Barton, sails daily at Ten in the forenoon, and at One and Four in the afternoon. - I t i 
the examiner. 831 t!ET, he ad'mit'cd that the- malady might in part be acca-sioned by a feygr which he brought on himself by over exertions at the Liverpool Election, where he actively and warmly supported Gen. Tarte ton's interest. Tiie marriage of the plaintiff and his wife was proved in the year 1798. Mr. Carey and Mr. Dixon proved that the plaintiff and his wife lived on harmonious terms.. Mr. Wilkinson, clerk to .the plaintiff, and who bad been a confidential servant of his father's, said they lived on good terms.-On cross-examination, he said that the'de fendant frequently dined at, their house and always handed Mrs Parr oot of the room. He also usually followed her a short time afterwards. He oticc heard the plaintiff say, come back Ralph and divert your time, and leave Mary to herself. Several other witnesses were called, who spoke nearly to the same facts, and that the defendant and Mrs. Parr w'pte frcquebtly together, but they did not see any thing improper pass between them. Mr. D. Parr, brother to the plaintiff, also Spoke to the affectionate manner in which the plaintiff and his wife lived. He stated, that after the discovery of Mrs. Parr's infidelity his brother became melancholy, and at length so deranged that lie was obliged to be committed to the care of Hr. Chute, of Liverpool. Oil cross-examination by Mr. Garrow, he said that his brother had been de ranged before tlmt time, and he attributed it to his over exertions at the Liverpool Election. jane Hughes, servant to the plaintiff, said, in the year 1805, Mr. Bensouwas frequent in his visits at their house and she observed great familiarities between him and her mistress.-The evidence of tins witness fitl y proved the criminal intercourse but it is wholly unfit fer tile columns of any decent Newspaper. 1 ' Mr. Gag now, for the defendant, contended it was not •e case for damages, inasmuch us the plaintiff had brought his misfortune oa himselpby his own misconduct in neglect ing his wife, and exposing her to improper liberties, which he suffered to be taken with her in fits prefence, without remonstrance, or apparently earing for them. To prove this a Mrs. JtiWSjTMrs. C. Jones, and Philips, a waiter at the White Lion, Shrewsbury, were called, vvho proved the following facts -That in August, 1806, Mr. and Mrs. Parr, and Mr. Benson, were at tlie Shrews bury Races together. They could hot be accommodated with beds at the White Lion, and were obliged to get beds at an adjoining house.' Mr. Parr did not sleep with his wife, but in the best bed below, and Mrs. Parr slept In a bed without curtains adjoining to Mr. Benson's bed room but nt that trine Parr luid ayhade over his eyes, atid appeared rather rfnwell. The waiters at the inn at first thought Mrs. Parr was Benson's wife, lint when they discovered she was Parr's, they made it a joke, that Ben-eon paid for all, ami kept,both husband and wife. , Several other witnesses were called, who proved, that familiarities had passed in the. presence of'the plaintiff, Siiclt as correctly ought not to have been passed over by a husband without notice. Lord Em.enbo Ji oeeii detailed the evidence at length, and said it was a case for their serious consideration be left it for them to determine, whether the plaintiff had been consenting to his own disgrace, and whether at least he had not been culpably negligent. The Jury found for the plaintiff-Damages, lOUQl The damages were laid at 30,9001. Saturday, Dec. 24., , BOYDE'IX V DRUMMOND. The Attorney General opened this case with a high panegyric on the late and present Alderman Boydell, as patrons of the elegant arts of Painting and Engraving. They had in a great .degree contributed to advance them to a state of comparative excellence, and had turned the balance of trade in Engravings agaipat foreigners, by their liberal encouragement ' of native Artists. In the year 1786, they issued a Prospectus of their great work from Shakespear, in which they proposed to present their sub scribers with 72 prints from as many paintings, to be ex ecuted by the most distinguished artists of that time. They were to-be delivered to the subscribers annually, in a number containing fpur prints,' to be executed ii the line and chalk styles of engraving. The number was after wards encreased to five. They embarked one hundred thousand pounds in this grand concern. On the-1st of May, 1789, the Shakspear Gallery in Pall .Mall was opened with thirty-four of, the Paintings, and in March 179ft, fifty-si paintings were there exhibited, and ten specimens of the plates, in line and dotting. The Sub scribers had then au opportunity of examining, with con siderable accuracy, the nature of the work, to which they were affixing their names. In this progress of the work, the Plaintiff became a subscriber, received his first number, and paid a guinea in advance for the nextj which he also ha ifiit declined sending for any more as the work, he afterwards asserted, was not so good as be was led to expect. This, Sir V. GIbbs contended, was an unfair objection that the Subscribers had no right to expect uniform excellence in the different performance that'the work was executed in a style equal to the ta lents of the country at the period of its progressive ac complishment, apd with the most liberal remuneration, ©f the Artists. Gut of the 1300 Subscribers, above SOP refused, at various times, -to continue their subscription. Was this conduct, in Subscribers, said S r V. Gjngy, to be sanctioned by a Coiirt of Law, fbe Arts would suffer a serious injury 'as who would venture to publish works on.a large and expensive scale His clientWas entitled to a verdict, as he had fulfilled, in every respect, the con ditions of his Prospectus. Mr. Clay, clerk to the late Aldertnan Boydell, proved, together with some of-the above facts, that IKe prints were ready for delivery in saceession, agreeably to the dole o their subscription that 1304 prints were struck oil' to be delivered to the Subscribers, before those which Were' designed for Non-subscribers.-On cross-examination, he admitted that the line is considered, by the competent judges in Art, much superior in excellence to the chalk style takes twice the time to engrave is more thou double the expense and that, in'the early period of - the Work, in the year 1790, there were twenty-three of the latter to four of the former. . Mr. Harrison, formerly a clerk to Alderman Boydell, said that if all the prints had been .engraved in' a style equal to those which had been engraved in the line man-ner, only one instead of four could hav# been produced in a year, and that the entire work would have taken forty years to finish.- In the cqurse of evidence for the Plain tiff it appeared, that one of the painters and foiirof tli engravers promised were not employed that out of five prints at one time hung up as Specimens, only one was ia the line, and at another only two were line to fourteen chalk that Mr. Drummond was nut applied to individu ally, for the payment of a, third subscription that go advertisement, addressed generally to the subscribers, had appeared on the publication of that and subsequent num bers, in all the daily papers and that in the year 1806 the remaining numbers weie tendered to Mr. Drummond, and Refused, The trial here ahrnptly terminated withoat hearing Counselor witness for the Defendant, for Plaintiff not being able to shew that he had madeTa demand on Me. Drummond for six years, even if he ought to be held bound by the Prospectus, the Statute of Limitation, it wax contended, barred the Plaintiff's recovery. After a good deal of argument, the facts were agreed to be turned ipto a special case, and the opinion of the Court to be taken on the main questions, whether there was any agree ment betvrfen the parties sufficient to grojind this action, and whether the Defendant could be made liable by t
ept. 13, In. le representation loom of the late 1 After the usual lations by their Tilcher, and Mr Id the electors, h, religious and led by Mr Miall If justice to the lid manly refil ling Sir William the honour of re-1 fallen upon me hearing whilst I by political prin-kill beters I entertain unfeigned respect. Between accused of overturning revelation by their discoveries with vour opinions and mine the practical difference has always j regard to the past existence of the earth. In short, in all seemed to me to be of small amount I have, therefore, ages, and amongst all nations, infidelity has ever been the war cry which the base, the ignorant, the intolerant, and the canting tribe have raised against the great, the noble, and the generous spirits of the human race. That cry you, Mr Miall, have attempted to raise against the works which I have edited. I now again solemnly call on you before these, the electors of Southwark, whom you wish to repre sent in Parliament-1 challenge you to make good your assertions. If you shrink from the attempt, or fail, as fail you will, then I accuse you before your fellow-citizens of having brought this charge against me for base electioneer ing purposes. I brand you as a calumniator, and appeal to the poll of to-morrow. seemed - -- - -- , - , from the beginning of this contest deeply regretted the division that exists between us. Hear, hear. I wished that our united forces should do battle to the common enemy. I offered to agree to any fair compromise. I pro mised to retire from the field if I were the weaker, and to give all the assistance in my power to your candidate. These offers your candidate rejected, and the contest went on. Still I hoped that no angry feelings would arise be tween us. I trusted we should abstain from personalities towards each other, and that this would be a calm contest of reason. In these my hopes I have been disappointed, and for that disappointment I am not to blame. Not one word of disrespect-not one syllable of reproach did I utter b o we veam ever ready m I n ■Thursday, and the result justified our ex-the first'blow? You, Mr Miall! You quitted the high pectations Sir William Molesworth was returned by an ground of argument. You descended into the arena of A ' u -abuse. You accused me of dishonesty on account of my opinions with regard to Maynooth. You taxed me with in-The appeal was a most triumphant one. The election sincerity because I possessed property in the Church of England you called upon the Dissenters of Southwark to shrink with horror from my opinions you attempted to excite religious animosity and rancour against me like an inquisitor of old, you presume to question me on my re ligious belief, and to summon me before the tribunal of your private judgment. I am glad to meet you here to day, face to face, to answer you, to scoff at your pretensions, and to bid you defiance. I tell you, in the name of re ligious liberty and equality, that no man has a right to interfere with the religious opinions of another man that no man has a right to question or blame the belief of his neighbour. I tell you that in your conduct and language towards me you have been untrue to the great principle of religious liberty-you have been without that charity which is the essence of religious liberty. You have denounced me as the editor of the works of Hobbes of Malmesbury. Electors, I am proud of the fact. I will rest upon it a claim to your support, in opposition to the claim of Mr Miall. He is the editor of the ' Nonconformist.' I am the editor of Hobbes. To compare the two works together would be like comparing the vastest mountain on the earth's surface with the smallest mole-hill. The works of Hobbes will last more centuries than the ' Nonconformist' will days. The writings of Hobbes will live as long as the Anglo-Saxon race and language. They will be read age after age by the studious amongst the millions of our race who will people the two Americas and the islands of the Southern Ocean, and who will wonder at the ignorant and bigoted herd who dared to assail so great a master of thought and language. As one of that herd, Mr Miall, it is your only chance of escaping oblivion. When I com menced this contest I was told by one of Mr Miall's ad mirers thas he was a retired accomplished student, skilled in literature, a lover of learning and wisdom, an acute rea-soner, an able writer, and in every way well fitted to in struct the nation through the public press. I did believe all this, and I felt almost ashamed of entering into a con test with such a person. Now, I ask you, electors, has Mr Miall's conduct with regard to Hobbes been in con formity with the character I have just given ? If you, Mr Miall, had any love of learning, any regard for the litera ture of your country, any reverence for the wisdom of past times, any admiration for beauty of language, vigour of expression, vigour of logic, and boldness of reasoning, though you might, like myself, deem many of Hobbes' opinions erroneous, though you might reject the whole of his doctrines, yet you would have accorded praise, not blame, to me for enabling the student to peruse the works of one of England's most illustrious authors. No, like that Mahometan warrior and bigot, who destroyed the wisdom of ages, you would burn every work, and consume all lite rature that in the slightest degree was at variance with your limited notions-with your own Koran. You have denounced me as the editor of an infidel work I have challenged you, and again challenge you, to make good your assertions. I have called upon you to point out one infidel passage, one single sentence derogatory to Chris tianity in the works of Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury. Have you, or have you not, read those works ? If you have not read them, what right have you to say that they are infidel productions? If you have read them, then point out one infidel passage in them, one single sentence hostile to Christianity. I defy you to it. You have shrunk from the attempt. You have indirectly acknowledged that no such passages can be found in those works. Would it not have been manly and courageous to have acknowledged your error-to have said that you had never read those works, and that you had been misled with regard to them ? Instead of doing this you have had recourse to subterfuge. First, you have talked about Gibbon. Now tell me, acute logician, able reasoner, what has Gibbon to do with Hobbes, or Hobbes with Gibbon ? Two minds more dissimilar can hardly be found than the philosopher of Malmesbury and the historian of the Roman Empire. Would you, the lover of knowledge, not only destroy the works of our greatest dialectician, but the writings, likewise, of our greatest his torian ? Would you consign to the same flames the ' Le viathan ' and the ' Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire?' Secondly, you have insinuated that some of Hobbes' opinions lead to infidelity. Prove it, I say. Now, I ask, is there a single work renowned in science, in literature, or in art, against which a similar charge has not been brought by some narrow-minded bigot ? It is a well-known historical fact that every great discovery in astro nomy, in natural history, in chemistry, or in any of the physical sciences-that everything which has made us better acquainted with the heavens, with the earth, and overwhelming majority. At the close of the poll' the numbers were as follows -r-Molesworth .... 1,942 Pilcher 1,176 Miall 353 Sir William Molesworth therefore polled 413 votes more than both his opponents united. IRELAND The Conflict at Ballinhassig.-Mr O'Connell has sent a subscription of twenty guineas towards the relief of the friends and survivors of the persons who lost their lives in the unhappy conflict at Ballinhassig. In the letter to Mr Philip O'Connell, of Cork, which accom panies the donation, Mr O'Connell states that, after the fullest consideration of the verdict of the jurors who sat on the inquest after the Ballinnhassig affair, he has arrived at the conclusion that he fears it is impossible to disturb it. In reference to the conduct of the police he says -'Tis really shocking to think that the police should be employed, with deadly weapons in their hands to decide upon the necessity of arresting persons not guilty of felonious or capital offences. It is a bad system that sanctions the use of murderous weapons upon occa sions where, even if the imputed crime of the slain were really proved, the utmost punishment could not exceed a small fine or a short imprisonment. 1 Great Orange Demonstration at Belfast.-A grand Orange soiree was held in the Music Hall of Belfast on the 4th inst., which was attended by about 1,000 persons, including Lord Roden, Colonel Verner, Mr Watson, Mr Cleland, and other ultra-Orangemen of note. The hall was profusely hung with banners, and decorations strongly expressive of the political and reli gious opinions of the assembly. When tea was over Lord Roden was called to the chair, and the various notables expressed their sentiments in terms of deep sympathy for Mr Watson, and indignation at the conduct of Government. The speech made by the noble chair man at the close of the soiree contained- some passages which may be worth reproducing. Speaking of the act which deprived Mr Watson of the commission of the peace, he said, I cannot but think that it was an enor mously harsh act of the Government to deprive such a man of the commission of the peace and I cannot but think that they themselves must feel that they have acted a very inconsiderate part in degrading that individual, who, in times of danger, acted with spirit in preserving the peace of the country. In reference to an observation of Colonel Verner, who looked upon him Lord Roden as the leader of the Protestants in Ireland, he said he felt himself totally unworthy of the distinction, but added he would give them all the assistance he could-a heart truly devoted to the Protestant interest of Ireland. It is now many years since first I belonged to the Orange Institution, and it was always my pride and happiness to belong to that loyal body. It was in the vigour of youth, when the body was active and the mind clear, that I joined that body and I can say that, in 1836, the period when that body was dissolved at the wish of the Sove reign, its principles were nothing but loyalty to the Throne and Constitution of Great Britain yes, loyalty to the Crown of England was the great end and aim of those institutions. I do not know whether it is a crime to re organize them now or not-I won't say but that will remain for those who know what is best to be done in these trying times to the Protestant interests of the country. Whether it were merely a singular coinci dence, or a concerted stratagem on the part of the Orangemen, does not appear, but the fact of their having adopted the Roden livery gave his lordship singular pleasure - I feel happy that you have chosen for your colours orange and blue, to which you are so much at tached. I am proud of that, for that happens to be the colour of the very ancient livery tremendous cheering of my own family. As the livery of the House of Orleans became the national colours of the French nation, so the old coat of the Joscelyns now floats as the standard of the Orangemen in the same manner the apron of the blacksmith Gao was borne as the type of rebellion against the tyrant Zohak. Lord Roden continued-I know not whether it is a crime, but I don't think it culpable course of his life he was never Drespm -where he experienced more happiness than on L rf 1 occasion.-The 'Dublin Warder,' aweekhOrf journal, after referring to the Lisburn, Belfast, and other demonstrations, says, Preparations for other countv meetings are in progress, and ere the close of this month the voice of Protestant Ireland will have declared to Peel her immutable determination to resist his unjust and ill-timed attempts to stiffle the expression of independent opinion in a free land. The New Colleges.-t'tjutuiiicu w mi me nedvens, wmi uil ccii hi, duu , , , ,i ,. With human nature-that every acquisition of knowledge tl ? at . 1 sh ,0 d carry about my person the image ot the ''hich has tended to elevate humanity, every attempt at 8 °nous William. Kentish fire I have done so for frnn inn,.! , nt . • i n man,, vAnoAno It I r the dis- 1 our great deliverer. Rounds of Kentish fire. I know 2!?! y . 0 J lhe . S w °f gravitation a similar charge was made! not whether that I am worthy to be deprived of the com' i of the peace but I do know that no persecution The Evening Packet,' the organ of the Government, makes the following announce ment -We have reason to believe that the Government is now occupied with the choice of individuals to fill the offices of president and vice-president of the new col leges. In reply to applications made on their behalf, candidates, we understand, are informed that no selection has yet been made-that no engagements have been entered into, nor assurances given-that the choice will be determined solely by considerations of personal cha racter and by moral and intellectual qualifications. It is said that, in addition to apartments within the walls of the college, the presidents will receive about 800 . per annum, and the vice-presidents 500 . Alarming State of the County of Cavan.-This county has been the theatre of great excitement during the past week, in consequence of proposed de monstrations, Catholic and Protestant, arising out of a singular cause. The following statement from the ' Dub lin Evening Pilot will explain the case -The friends of Mr Robert Henry Southwell having formed a project to raise from the Irish Catholics a sum of 55,000 . to re purchase the Castle-Hamilton estates for him, proclaimed a meeting to be held at Killeshandra on the 8th this day , to give stability to the project meanwhile Mr Southwell and the Rev. Dr Martin had an angry corre spondence, which was made public. The Protestant party announced a meeting on the same day, and determined to take military possession of Killeshandra early on the morning of the 8th, alleging that the meeting of the Ca tholics was to commemorate and take revenge for the battle of Ballynamuck 8th of September, 1798. Terror and confusion reigned through Cavan and Leitrim. Lord Farnham, with a courage equal to the occasion, issued a notice forbidding persons carrying arms to the meeting this was clearly aimed at the Orangemen. His lordship has collected a great military force, cavalry and infantry, and, after consulting with persons of all religious per suasions, and having affidavits as to an impending breach of the peace, has issued a proclamation, the only course which could prevent a regular battle. The Scots Greys, from Dundalk, after a forced march, have just entered Cavan, where there also have arrived a general officer and Major Priestly, from Dublin. The county is, thank God, filled with troops. Lord Farnham will be in Kil leshandra with four regiments at an early hour so it is to be hoped all will go off quietly. Besides Lord Farn-liam's proclamation, the magistrates issued a notice cau tioning all persons against attending either of the meet ings. It is satisfactory to be able to state, that subsequent accounts show that neither of the projected meetings took place. The troops were all in readiness, but fortunately there was no occasion for their services. The ' Dublin Evening Post says - Our letters from Cavan state that all passed off quietly. The Catholic clergy, from their altars on Sunday, enforced the duty of obedience to the law, and of avoiding all occasions of strife and disturbance, and the result was, that the teetotallers, who had abandoned their perfectly legal meeting and noble purpose, afforded no pretext for Orange violence or ag gression. State of the Harvest in Ireland.- Accounts from various parts of the country convey the most gra tifying assurances of the beneficial effects which the last fortnight of fine weather has had upon the crops. The wheat has been partially injured-on that all are agreed but the extent of surface sown last season, and the saving influence of the present fine weather, will yield and bring to perfection at least an average crop. The oat crop is peculiarly fine in every part of the country, and will yield an abundant produce. In the counties of Wicklow, Wexford, Carlow, and Kildare, reaping has been in pro gress during this week. In Meath, Westmeath, and far ther north and west, the harvest is later but next week extensive tracts of country will be ready for the sickle, and the husbandman, we doubt not, will be amply re warded, notwithstanding that the full measure of promise which the month of June held forth will not be realised. There has been a partial failure in the potato crop, but only on lands adjacent to the coast. Generally, however, this crop is excellent in quality, and the yield will be very abundant. The Government and the Orange Magistracy. -Mr Archdall, father of the member for Fermanagh, who had been removed from the deputy-lieutenancy of that county, for attending the Orange meeting in Ennis killen on the 12th ult., will also be deprived of the com mission of the peace. It is rumoured that supersedeases will soon be issued to the magistrates who attended at Lisburn, but as a marquis of large possessions is num bered amongst them, it may be doubted whether the Go vernment will have the courage to apply their own rule to the case of Lisburn. against Franklm for explaining the nature of the thunder- mission v . ...v t - - rv .v.wv..v.. ....... , u Jt 1 riestley's library was burnt and his person eudan- will deter me from giving my zealous support to the good in saving the crews of vessels wrecked on the coast, vc Votes of Thanks from Lloyd's.-At a general meeting of the members of Lloyd's, held on Wednesday, a special vote of thanks to his Majesty the King of Den mark, for a valuable set of charts presented to the estab lishment by order of his Majesty, and likewise to the Royal Norwegian Finance Department at Christiania, for the valuable charts of, and sailing directions for, the north coast of Norway, presented by order of that depart ment, was propose', and carried unanimously. I e honorary silver medal of Lloyd's to Lieutenant i Gould, R.No and votes of money to seamen instrument . ' • ~ ••• '••• WG h lrM on account of his religious opinions and, in our i cause. His Lordship concluded by staling, that in the proposed and carried at this meeting, 1 1 4'
I -EXETER FLYING POST, SATURDATi DECEMBER 8, 1894 PERSONAL. ioa#I W. H. Parkin. Mayor.of odmin, id yeeterday after a long illness. Min Maud Bramwel . of Penzance, ha won ,X Hopluooon gold medal at the Royal College of Music. ! The Rev. B. Mills yettorday accepted th Wring of St. Paul's, Tiverton, offered by the Karl of Harrowby. rO-DAY-S FOOTBALL. Bt Telegraph, Telephone, Cabbies Pigeon, and Messenger if The Mayor of Dartmouth Captain R Orme Webb.R N. , was entertained by theCorpora-tion at a complimeatary banquet last .•evening fc The funeral of Mr . Charles Wilson, wife , of the Rev. C. Wilson, formerly pastor of Bherwill Chapel, Plymouth, took place atPly-1 month Cemetery this morning. Y Lord Coleridge was sued in the Westmin-efer Connty Court yesterday for £35 repairs done to to the premises of a club in Graftou-street of which he is hon. secretary. Judge Lnmley Smith hold that defendant was not liable, and dismissed the action. 1 Visitors at the Rougemont Hotel, Kxeter this week include Mr MacKensize, Mr Ford, Mr Swanbro, Mr Pirn, Mr Sraallbones, Miss Hart, Mr Norris, Mr Carpenter, Mr Masters, Rev Carter, Mr Sara, Mr Ballentine, Mr Cook, Mr Fryer, Mr Oldroyd, Mr Pope, Mr B Toose, Mr and Miss Tayler, Mr Hastings, Mr Fenn, Mr and Mrs Tetcombe, Mr Cullen, Mr Brown, Mr Kappeloff, Mr Knowles, Mr Buckingham, Mr Cope, Mr Iteicestcr, Mr Miobal, Mr Edwards, Mr Goulding, Mr B Price, Mr Grant, General Stokes,M r Bradbury, Mr Pahill, Mr Lyde, Mr Tyler, Mr and Mrs Mann, Mr Richardson, Rev Tremler, Mr Royle, Mr and Mrs Mrs Jnlien, Mr Lowe, Mr Aliston, Mr Andrewes. Mr Gabriel, Mr Borwick, Mr Jarmin, Mr Burey, Mr Sutton, Mr White, Mr, Stevenson, General and Mrs Buchanan, Mr Wright, Mr Donald, Mr Meindo, Mr Beelsey, Mr Simpson, Mr Morgan, Mr Lamb, Rev and Mrs Nevill Lovett. LOCAL NEWS. £500 Insurance.-In our sixth page will be found a coupon insuring our subscribers Against railway accidents, the insurance teing undertaken by the General Accident .Issuance Corporation, Limited. There was a large and fashionable audience , ' t the Theatre last evening to witness The .Private Secretary The company will terminate their stay in the city this evening. 'Next week the drama At Duty's Call Will occupy the boards. Ladies' Night. -At the Constitutional Slab last evening the Harmonic Society held ladies'night. In the absence of Mr. Coun cillor Fulford, Mr Councillor Surridge pre aided over a good attendance, and a varied programme was gone through, the entertain-uent being demonstratively appreciated. Granted-Mr. J. W. Williams, of the fxeter Inn, Barth olomew-street, wasgraoted it the Exeter Police Court this morning by Messrs J W Petberick, 1 R II Daw, II Gad I, and W Brock, an occasional license to sell intoxicating liquorsat the annual distribution of prizes to the Exeter Artillery Volunteers at the Victoria Hall on Friday, 14th inst. South American Missionary Society.-SeriBODs will be preached in aid of this sooiety to-moirow at Allhallows, Goldsmith-street, by the Rev. W. E Martlew in the morn ing, and the Rev. Canon Trefnsis in the after noon at St. Mary Major at the children's terries, 3, by tbs Rev. W. E. Martlew, who will preach at St. Paul in the evening, the Rector occupying the pulpit in the morning, and Canon Trefusis preaches at St. Stephen in tbe morning. The annual meeting will he held in the Chapter House on Monday, Cano r Trefnsis presiding. Inquest.-Mr. Coroner Hooper held an inquest at 27, Molbourne-street, Exeter, this morning on the body of William Henry 8taddon, aged 7 months, child of Emma Staddon, domestic servant, which was horn in the Workhouse. Mrs. Woolgar said she was paid 4s a week to look after the infant, which she fed on thin corn flonr and other things. On Monday it was taken bad in its inside, and she sent for Dr. Harrison, but it died on the Wednesday. Mr. Harrison, surgeon, said he was of the opinion that the child died from diarrhoea and convulsions, and the jury returned a verdict of Death from natural causes. J Royal Cot i.sor of Music.-Preliminary j examinations for 12 open free scholarships in connection with this college will be held on January 30th in various local centres throughout the United Kingdom, allotted as as follows -Composition 1, singing3. piano-forte 2, organ 1, violin 1, violoncello 1, wind instruments 3. The scholarships are open to all classes of her Majesty's subjects within Abe stated ages. They are each of the value of £40 a year, and entitle tbe holders to a •ysteuiatic free education in music, and arc a rule tenable for three years. In some cases maintenance is added. Farther in formation and official forms of application can bo obtained on application to Mr. George Watsou, secretary, Royal College of Music, Prince Consort-Road, Kensington, London, B.W., up to tbe end of December. West of England Eye Infirmary.-Monthly report-Patients admitted in Novem ber, 174 total under care for the month, 524 discharged, 156 remaining under care, 368. ATw suligrriptions-James Irish, Esq , The Cedars, Exeter, £i Is Mrs Walsh, Rockbeare Court, £1 Is Mrs Edward Sanders, Stoke House, £1 Is Mrs Kavnnagb, Sunneycroft, Exmoutb, £1 Is Major Harries Depot Devon Regiment , £1 Is Viscount Sidmouth, Upottery Manor, £1 Is Captain Thomas Bander , 1. Ringmore-road, Sbalden, £1 Is. Churcheolleetigm-Sonthniolton, per the Rev F King, £5 5s. Donations-A Friend, per ,Mrs Walsh, £1 Is Hon Mark Rolle, Stever.-j stone, 50 rabbits. Benefactions and sub-i scriptions will be thankfully received by A M j H Walrond,' Esq., Hon Treasurer, Kxeter Bank or at the Infirmary, Magdalen-strect, kxeter.-Adit. Out 1 Double Acrostic. A township and n lake A mood you can't mistake A monarch of whom Shakespeare wrote A shire with solid Home Rule vote, A modern town upon an ancient site A very worth3 f well-known Israelite The miser's God the usurer's delight. My firsts denote a ruler at the helm My finals what he rules, that is, his realm. ojamok re last wkf.k's dqubi.e acrostic, R am i H O riuoe O S ia M The Local Government Act. Withdrawals. Axminster. -The following have with drawn from the District Council for the parishes of Axmoufch and Rousdon-Mr Sloman Colyton-Mr F Stakes, jun. and Mr Bamuel White Chardstocfc-Mr Bishop and Mr Fryer Kilmipgton-Mr W Trott Lime Regis-Mr Load and Mr Radford Thorn-sombe-Mr W H Pinney. HONITON.-Messrs W Board, H Collins, And C Read have withdrawn their nominations as Guardians, and there will now be no C °Ottbry st Mary.-The Rev F B Dickin son has withdrawn Ins candidature as Guardian. _ , , ... Larcombk.-Mr T G Palmer has with drawn from the District Councillors'list. HarreRTON.-Mr Charles lowell, boot maker, retires from the Guardians election. SiLVRRTON.-Mr Barley has withdrawn, his candidature as Guardian Uffculmh.-The Rev Prebendary Bramley, Mr J New chairman of the old Guardians , and Mr E Heard drawn their ominations as Guardians. Board of have with-LIFTON v TAVISTOCK SCHOOL. Played at Litton, the result beieg a win for Litton by six goals to three. EXE ISLAND ROVERS v NAPIER JUNIORS. Played at Exeter, the result being a wio for Napier by four goals to nil. OAKS B v CRE DITON B. The Oaks second string took a heavy team to Crediton to meet the boms B team, and won by a goal, a dropped goal, and a try to nil, BLUNDELL'S v WESTWARD HO! This match was decided at Tiverton, the homesters winning by a goal and five tries to a try. Notwithstanding the runaway char acter of the game, it was a very good and enjoyable one, TORQUAY ATHLETIC B BUCKFASTLEIGH. Played at Torquay, the result being a point less draw. Buckfastleigh conceded three minors. ST. LEONARD'S v. PRACTISING SCHOOL PAST . This match was played at Magdalen-road, and ended in a win for St. Leonard's by a try to nil. BIDEFORD v. BARNSTAPLE B. DEVON Barnstaple B played Bideford at the latter place, and norwithstanding the fact that they had the services of Monty''Toller,were beaten by two tries to nil. SIDMOUTH v OTTERV This match was played at Sidmouth, and resulted in a win for the home team by a penalty goal and four tries to a penalty goal and one try. ALBION B y. KINGSBRIDGE. This match in connection with the Devon Junior Cup took place at Devonport, the result being a win for Albion B by three tries to one. ST. DAVID'S JUNIORS v. ST. SIDWELL'S JUNIORS. These teams met at Exeter, the result being a win for the former by a goal, a dropped goal, and four tries. BOVEY v. HEAVITREE. This match was played at Heavitree in fine weather and before a fair attendance of spec tators. Bovey were by far the finer team, but Heavitree were better at half. The first half was slow, but interesting. Just after the start Cooper, for the visitors, scored a try, which was not converted. After the kick out, Bovey again pressed, but it was not until near half-time that Cooper once more scored. On the kick out Heavitree rushed the oval to their opponents 25 but Bovey were relieved by a kick. Heavitree showed better play in the second half but could not score, and tne game ended -Bovey Tracey, two tries Heavitree, nil. EXETER B v HEATHCOTE. Played at Tiverton. Tbe visitors came two short and found two good subs in Britton and Pook of the Tiverton team. Exeter played a rattling game, whilst the homesters were somewhat noisy, and inclined to be rough. Cox for the homo team scored a dis puted try in the first half. Exeter had hard lines in not scoring, their wheeling of the scrum being splendidly. The final score was Heethcote-One try Exeter B-Nil. .' dr OAKS v CREDITON. The great match did not interfere with the attendance at Alphington-road, where an interesting game was witnessed between Oaks and Crediton. Sawer and Densham were not playing for the homesters, who played two second men. Soon after the start the visitors were awarded a free kick, but nothing better than a save resulted. Crediton forced play into Oaks' territory, and for a time looked dangerous, but a flue run by Peter Underhill put matters in a different light. He passed all his opponents but the back, and he in endeavouring to collar him knocked the ball out of his hands, A free kick for the homesters had the effect of livening matters up a bit, aud several smart rushes were made by either side, Johns being conspicious for Kirton. A rather easy chance for the visitors obtained after a smart run, was spoiled by wild passing, and the first half ended with no score. Oaks commenced to press directly the second half commenced, and from Crediton's 25 flag Gard made a good, though ineffec tual, atti Dipt, to drop a goal. A smart mark by Cornish at mid-field was practically use less, and a good run under difficulties, and in the thick of opponents, by Middlewick was equally unproductive. A pretty piece of running among the home threequarters brought the ball to the visitors' goal, and a punt over the bar resulted in a save. Gard very cleverly stopped a forward rush. A mark mid-way between the centre flag and Crediton 25, taken by Bates, was fruitless, and after a little exciting play a save in favour of Oaks resulted. Faulkner in the visiting 25 took from a scrum and passed to Goodman, who made a tricky run and scored in the corner. Bates' kick was a failure. A piece of wild passing by the home quarters made matters look a little dangerous but Garu caine to tbe rescue with a fine stop and Bates, picking up, passed to Cornish, who ran along the line and kicked to the centre under the goal, where the Crediton back took possession, and the ball was worked away from dangerous giound, aud exciting play in the home, territory resulting in nothing, the game ending-Oaks-One try Crediton-Nil. EXETER v BRIDGWATER. This match was played at the Connty Ground this afternoon. The weather was beautifully fine, but the attendance was fairly good. Preece kicked off and Culvenvell well re turned, Read sent back with advantage to the visitors 25 where the Bridgwater for wards came away to the centre. Labbett by a fine dribble took the leather dangerously near the home line, but the visiting back stopped his career. A series of long shots took place between the two tacks, the Kxoniar.s gaining the advantage. Labbett came away from the 25 and wriggling through a host of opponents scored a try in a favourable position. H. Reed took !h s kick and was successful. On the kick off the visitors took the leather to the home quarters but Harris relieved. Cnlverwell was well away ut Escott tackled him before he could get anything like dangerous The Exeter men by a dribl.le transferred operations to the visiting 25,'' where Cnlverwell relieved by a kick and run. The visiting threequarters exhibited some fine passing, but Escott well collared an opponent when very dangerous. Exeter quartette showed some fine passing resulting in Baker scoring. Reed made a splendid attempt to majorise bat failed. Not long after the kick off Labbett gave to Colson,who transferred to Reed. The latter went off, and handling off his opponents in fine style scored another fry for Exeter. No g sl resulted. F. Escott came away from the scrum and scored another try for Exeter. Reed kicked the goal. Nothing furth9r was scored up to half-time. Exeter -Two goals two tries Bridgwater-Nil Bridgwater kicked off, and Escott, well returned to touch in the centre. Escott received from a scrum and gave to Baker in his own 25. The latter came up the field, and, leaving Culvcrwell behind, ran in ar.d scored between the posts. Reed kicked an easy goal. On the kick oat Exeter attacked, V-DEVON WINS BY A TRY. This connty match waaplayed at Weston-' snper-Mare in deiightinl weather and on a splendid gronad. There was a very large attendance. The sides were as pub lished. Devon started and shewed fine passing against the Somerset dribbles, tut the former prevailing Stoyle scored and goaled. Even play followed exciting tactics without scoring, C Chardfor Somerset and Cbipman for Devou distinguish ing themselves, Boucher being compelled to save. At halftime there was no increase in the score, In the second half Somerset started with the advantage, compelliug the visitors to save. Devon's splendid passing, however soon reversed minor points, and Sowden scored, but the try was not im proved. a Play remained in mid-field for a considerable time, and was of give-and-take order. Hocken made a brilliant run, nearly scoring for Devon. Mermagen Somerset ran the full length of the field and scored, Rogerson converting. Result-Devon, one goal one try Somerset, one goal, from our own reporters. The greatest enthusiasm was witnessed at the meeting of Devon and Somerset in their match held at Weston-Super-Mare this after noon. It knew no bounds. It never did between these old deadly but friendly rivals and although Devon has never previously de feated Somerset since the advent of recognised organisation, and it was after drawing on two previous occasions at Barnstaple and Exeter respectively last year the Dumplings wero eventually beaten at Weston last season the teams have since materially changed, and Devon, who had a better advantage this year over Gloucester and Cornwall than did Somerset, as regards the number of paints in their victories. Thousands of spectators from all parts of the West of England-including several hundred from Exeter an i the adjoin ing towns-lined the ropes, and as the game progresses the merits of the respective teams, which were as follows, could be plainly seen -DEVON. SOMBSSET. Beck. W Hocken, Albion Boucher, Taunton Threequarters. H Stoyle, Barnstaple Mermagen, Wellington Westcott, Bridgwater Rogerson, Oxford by Btwles improved Somerset's poaittea. 'SOMERSET, kU, 'Salter took tbe oval into his opponents ground, bnt-vlong shot by Sowden was wel retnreed byBoncber. The visitors, however still attacked, bu t even tnallySomerset assumed the offensive. Passing between Chipman, George, Sowden neutralised matters, Soane stopping a dangerous rush. Hocken missed the oval, and Mermagen, rushing up, secured and scored, Rogerson goaling. ' The Doclress of York and the Duke and Duchess of Teck left London for Eaton Hill it noon to-day to attend the wedding of Prince Adolphus of Teok and Lady Margaret j BridgwfiUt _ M i, i yr'tevceor. I bat Culverwell well defended. Escott received from a scrum, and Labbett romping over the line scored again for Exeter. Reed goaled, H. Escott shortly afterwarts received and ran through a host of opponents winding up with a smart performance by dropping a goal while running. Within a few minutes Reed ran in, no goal resulting. The same player again notched a point, tne goal being successful. Nothing further was scored, and the game ended- . Exeter-Five goals, one dropped goal and three tries, W Bildings, Albion W H Sowden, Albion J Salter, Exmouth Chard, Bristol Halt-backs. W George, Albion Baker, Wellington J H Chipman, Tqy Ath Chard, Weston Forwards. GP Allington, Albion Woods, Bridgwater C Hawkings, Tqy Ath Hancock, Wellington C Thomas, Barnstaple Soane, Bath A May, Albion Ebdon, Wellington J Lsverty, Albion Vowles. Weston C Vieary, Barnstaple Boiseigle, Crewkcrne W Vanstone, Tquy Ath Botham, Bridgwater F Long, Albion D'Aguila, Bath The referee was Mr. Holmes Midland Oouutses , and the touch judges Messrs Dixon Devon and Fox Somerset. The Great Western Railway made special arrangements for convoying spectators to the match. They had announced a special train to be run from Dartmouth, taking up pas sengers en route, but it was found necessary to run it in two parts, one being started from Exeter, and only stopping at Wellington. This train-whioh took 250 enthusiasts -reached Weston at2.15, a quarter of an hour before time. The original Dartmouth section -having 700 passengers aboard-Reached Weston at 2,35 and the special taking 800 visitors from Barnstaple, Minehead, and other places along the Northern littoral steamed gaily into the station at 2.25. Altogether over 400 persons were booked from Exeter, 100 from Barnstaple, and 100 from Tiverton. The match was played iu splendid weather, and before about four thousand spectators THE GAME, May started for Devon, and Baker muffing, the leather the visitors attacked. Devon were awarded a free kick for offside play by C Chard but an attempt to place a goal by Stoyle failed, and the ball was saved. George turned the kick off, and Somerset were again placed on the defensive. Woods and Han-oock then carried the oval well into touch and Soane led a dribble to the centre, Play for a time kept in the centre, but George gained possession and passed to Chipman, who forwarded to Bildings, and Sowden getting the ball served to Salter, who ran near the home line. Hostilities were promptly taken back to neutral ground, Hancock heading a dan gerous rash Rogerson and Westcott attacked hotly, Stoyle. however, frus trating their efforts. Mermagen magni ficently kicked near Devon's line, but the venue of play was soon trans ferred to the centre. Boucher pulled Sowden over after an excellent run in front of the line Stoyle then scored, Hocken converting. Stoyle's try, it appeared, was obtained as follows George nearly ran in just previously, and play being on the ine George picked up and passed to Bildings, who served to Stoyle aud that player, as stated, scared, planting the oval behind the posts amid loud cheering which was renewed again when Hocken kicked a fine goal. Somerset afterwards pressed, theirforwards workiuggrandly under Soane's captaincy. May dribbled well, bat Rogerson put the oval into touch in Devon's ground. Excellent passing among the Devon hacks soon altered matter . Hawkings broke away, and Hancock retaliating Talter fell on the leather, play being central. George afterwards passed to Chipman, who gave to Sowden and his transfer pass to Salter was missed, biit the Exmouth man picked up aud kicked near the line, Boucher replying. A lucky flying kick by Wescott greatly relieved Somerset. Hocken took a shot at goal, Mermagen saving twice successfully. Nothing further was scored up to half time when the record stood -Devon-One goal. Somerset-Nil. SECOND HALF. Woods started the second half, Stoyle returning we'l into touch, and the same Devonian made a mark off a free kick by Woods, but Somerset proceeded to attack Sowden relieved with a kick, but the ball returned over the line, Hocken just saving Salter and Thomas succeeded in obtaining marks, but nothing came of the kicks, the homesters con tinuing to press strongly. After a series of scrums Chipman panted to neutral ground, and thus enabled Devon to breathe once more. Somerset, however, gained ground, Ebdon taking the leather to Devon's quarter flag, bnt the homesters warm ing once more to their work repulsed the onslaught. May then dribbled over the 50 line, Somerset for the first time during his half being put on the defensive. Excel lent passing between Chipman, George, Sow den and Bildings taking place. Stoyle eventu ally put in a magnificent rur,,and then followed another bout of passing George slipped awav from the scram, pasted to Chipman who forwarded to Bildings, and that player passed to Sowden, who scored a brilliant try jimid tremendous cheering on Hie part of the Devonian spectators. Hocken- foiled si goal. Even play followed, and jQjeu Devon, encouraged by their success, one mere attacked. Woods and Hanoock drib's! d to the centre, and a free kici Wck and o k The result of t ie match was-DEVON-One goal and one try SOMERSHT-One goal. The first intimation of the result of the game was publis led in Exeter in the window at the firming Post, the news being received with th9 greatest satisfaction as it rapidly sproad throughout tho city, and there is no doubt that the victorious team will have an enthusiastic welcome on arriving at the Ever Faithful this evening. Notes on the Game by Daddy. The bet' er side undoubtedly won in fact, it was only towards the latter end that Somerset got on Devon's line proper, and then it was when through a mistake of Hocken in not accepting the oval from Hancock's dribbling that Mermagen ns,me uo and s ored. It was the work of a moment. Throughout the Somerset play was some what disappointing, whilst Devon, with their pluck and undanr ted courage, played in such a manner that clearly showed them to be snperior. The visitors completely outclassed their opponents in passing, every back man justifying his place, and the forwards wheeled the scrums a,nd heeled out remarkably well. Where Somerset had the advantage was in the forward rushes, These they were able to accomplish art libitum, and with success they laid themselves open to a forward game, Hancock,Woods, and Soane were powerful, bnt the Devon men were equal to the task of frustrating their efforts. To mentionedly individnaiise the Devon players would be invidious, for they were grand to a man. The Devonian spectators present displayed overwhelming enthusiasm at their count victory, the welkin ringing again and again with the heartiest cheering when the fitia whistle had blown. NEWTON ROVERS v HEAVITREE B. A draw was tho result of this match between these teams at Newton. St THOMAS HARLEQUINS v St THOMAS WANDERERS. This match was played at Marsh Barton and ended in a win for the first named team by two tries to nil. Roberts aud Dodd were the soorers. ST. THOMAS JUNIORS v ST. LEONARDS 11. The St. Thomas boys won this match by a try to a cypher. MR. HOBBS'S XV v NEWTON COLLEGE 3rd. This match resulted in a win for Mr. Hobbs's XV by two goals and two tries to one try. HONITON v CREiVKERNE. This match was played at Crewkerne, the visitors winning by a goal aud two tries to nil. TAVISTOCK COLLEGE y RALEIGIL This match, contested at Tavistock, was won by the Collegians by two goals to a try. EXETER ASSOCIATION RESERVE v DAWLISH Y.MC.A Played at James' Park this afternoon before a small attendance. Exeter kicked off and soon pressed the goal keeper having to save within a few minutes. After even play for about ten minntes Addis secured the ball and dribbled up the field scoring the first goal with a good shot. A half time the score stood-E xeter-Two goals Dawlisli-Nil. In the second half the Reserves had matters all their own way, and kept the ball almost continually in the Dawlish territory. Tho Exomans added four more goals, and ran out easy winners, the Store being-Exeter-Six goals Dawlish-Nil CUMBERLAND v. WESTMORELAND. The last matches in the North-Western competition took place at Kendal in beautiful weather. Carradic-e kicked off for the home team, and for some time a fast and even came was witnessed, Braithwaite got over for West moreland, tut wae played La'k, Goodman suffered hard linos twice at a drop at goal. After some nice passing Fletcher scored near the corner flag for Cumberland, Moore failing to convert. Half time-Cumberland, one try Westmoreland, nil. Cumberlnud-One try Westmoreland-Nil. On the ball restarting, even play continued though the Cumberland forwards showed a slight superioriry. Davidson made a grand run for Cumberland, and directly afterwards Goodman almost dropped a goal for Westmoreland. A fierce tussle on tho strangers' line ensued until Kitchen gave relief. Both ends in turn were invaded, but without either team scoring. An interesting game ended-Cumberland-One try, Westmoreland-Nil. DARTMOUTH B v. K.NE STUDENTS B. At Dartmouth, an even game resulting in a diaw. R.N.E. STUDENTS v. DARTMOUTH. These teams met at Home Park, and being evenly matched a tine game ensued. It was only towards the close of the first half that the Students showed any decided superiority, and then Pendleton snatched up and went over with a try. Tho kick failed. The second half was just as evenly contested, play being very fast and scientific. Nothing more was scored,, and tho game ended -K.N.K. College-One try Dartmouth-Nil TORQUAY ATHLETIC v ALBION A. At Biadderly. Albion started, and play settled for a few minates in Torquay 25 but very soon the visitors' backs showed excellent play and for a cousiieiable time had the best of thtgame, Olver and Harding frequently breaking away. Proctor, an Albion forward, had a lib broken, and just after Causey scored a try and converted it. The second half was as even as possible, until five minutes before the call of time when after a splendid turn of passing of the threequarters, Kitto got in at the corner, the kick failed. Nothing further was registered and the score stood-Torquay Athletic-One try. Albion A-Nil. GLOUCESTER v CORNWALL, These counties met at Gloucester in line weather, the ground being soft Both teams had been beaten by Devon and Somerset. The home team were without Wallace, Watts, and Collins. The visitors were strong and after twenty minutes even forward play Bowley scored for the homesters. Haines succeeded in majorising. Some fine foiward rushes ensued and these gave tho Cm nighmen a look in, and they scored a penalty goal. More even play followed, but nothing further was scored up to the interval, when the score read -Gloucestershire-One goal Cornwall-One penalty goal. Result-Gloucester, one goal and a try Cornwall, a penalty goal. lo the second half Gloucestershire attacked and exacted a minor after ten minutes' pressure. The homesters had rather the best of the succeeding play which was very minteresting. Then Taylor nearlydicorcd and Lockyer, getting the ball in a line out, dropped over. Haines failed to convert. The ensuing play, wad fought out in the centre, maln'y by forwards. Bad passing lost Coi'S ajl. a chance, and nothing further eoihg dope the result was-- •'■• Gloucesterghir -One goal one try Cornwall-Or.e penalty goal PENaRTH v NEWPORT. Newport boat Penarth by two tries to oil. NEATH v. PONTYPRIDD. Neath scored an easy victory ever Pont y priid by three goals and three tries to nil. BLACK HEATH v CARDIFF. The match at Cardiff resulted in a win for the visitors by a goal and two tries to two goals. NEWTON v. TOTNE5. Played at Newton and after an uninterest ing and ocassionally rough game, ended in a win for the home team by a try to nil. The point was made in the second half bv Wells, after a tricky iun. Mr. Beer, of Torquay, refereed. pEXMOUTH v ALLER VALE. This vas the grandest game on the AUer Vale ground for the season. Bradford started for the home team, and by well following up prevented a return. Tbe homesters at once commenced to press, and Exmonth was ~otr,m jelled to save. From the kick out the visitors played up smart for a time, hut were driven back again. Play being at half way, Hobbs intercepted a pass, and making a grand ran fell over the line, but was rolled into touch. The second half was very even, and there was no score. TAVISTOCK v. 2nd DEVON REGIMENT. Play at Tavistock. The homesters im-mediately broke awsy at the start, Kerswell shooting wide. Sargent shot past, and Tavistock obtained a corner, Mervifield falling. Play was somewhat furious and Waldron was knocked out, but was applauded on re-appearing. The Devons shot wide. Hands against Tavistock were callsd.and De Gray and Williams had to save. Tavistock continued shooting, but very erratically, and at half time nothing was scored. From a corner Waldron scored, but the point was disallowed. From hands against Devon Doirige scored, and Sargent shortly after registered a goal. Resut.-Tavistock-Two goals Devor -Nil EXETER v EAMPTON ASSOCIATION . These teams met under Association rales at Bampton. There was a fair attendance Kxeter started and quickly assumed tbe offensive, but erratic shooting and excellent defence prevented the visitors scoring more than twice up to half time. Mnch amusement was caused by the splendid tricky play of Kxeter. At half-time Exeter led by two to nil. In the second half plav went all in favour of Exeter, the home team seldom crossing the half-way line. Five more goals were added, and the result was-Exeter-Seven goals, Bampton-Nil. GENERAL MATCHES. Cambridge University beat Rosslyn Park Sunderland heat Small Heath. Sheffifld Widncsb y beat Stoke. Sheffield United v Liverpool, a tie. Wolverhampton Wanders v Derby Connty, a tie. Burnley heat Preston North End. Everton beat Bolton Wanderers, Aston Villa beat Blackburn. Notts Forest beat West Bromwich Albion. Cambridge University beat Old Foresters G EO. G. BUSSEY Co. are tne leading makers of requisites for Football, Hockey, Goif, Base-hall Gymnasia, and all Sports and Games. Illustrated catalogues may be obtained from the local dealers, or the Sports Manufactory, Peckharo, London. Trade Mark. Too Late for Glassification. ■y TANXKD a akarp willeducated TTI Light Company pncc.-No. 1,512, office of th 1 wv fate jT CESTS Christmas Number Father Christmas, Rhem Wine and eight other mu-, , ponce ' Goo.i Post free 3d.-John C. Eicetnr. Guest, Hi fi h flf CO IT Ad E Pianns f rom £7 Guest, 199, High-.treet, Eveter T O Ut Ni. 6.' Chap!eV-.v, rt r X . r . . Also 1, Paul-strenfc honw ' W AKTB forTorquay audlito £20. Parlourmaid. , General Servants for Ev ter Baker , Arcade Registry, Exeter ' AUCTION ON W1-dne, ii CHRISTMAS BEEF AND Ml -EXETfilt FAIR, Due. 13 ,,' MESSES. HUSSEY AND WHi Sell bv Auction 1 • ,. jj 5 v v Market on Wednesday. 1891. at 10 a.m. Present entries ._iaq Fat Devon Oxen, Steers, and H-f. r t choice Cross-bred and Longwool Ho Fat Bxmoors, 3 Fat Lambs. The whole of the above Stock i- t ripe, of the choicest quality, end tV ■ v the principal agriculturists in the nn .1. H. Queen-street, Exeter, Ii,o.. rv -. • •V-A SON ltd . COUNTY PARLIAMENT' 1894. ELEC ft A! 1 COUN CI I ACT, TO THE RATEPAYERS AND OF HEAVU'REK Lapifs asp Gkntif.mfv, I TNDER the above Art rf Uari .i by offer myself as a C.inu District Council, with the full .-... r , ing out the duties which tnav be as a representative of the dMre briefly mention mv past services 1 thirty years. First, as oivrrvet member of the Sanitary Committ member of the Board of Hturdi years, for which 1 received a te.tim.uii' • 240 subscriberr in rerognitinn of riiv services to the ratepayer- and poor o t...... fourthly, as an elected member .f th Trustees, with the approval of . ■ , missioner . Should 501 think r.iv worthy of your approval. I wi p-.v, . yon honestly, faithfully, and sin . r,-li t best of my ability. Your faiihfnllv. JOHN 'APRON 7, Stafford-terraee, Reavitree, Dec. 7-fn CITY EDITION. Conspiracy to Murder President. New York. Saturda A Rio despatch to the 11 arid state,, t two Italians and Portuguese have arrested charged with conspiracy to min President Moracs. The Good News from Brigg. The intelligence of Mr. Richardson's triumph in the Brigg Division caused the liveliest satisfaction in Unionist circles in Exeter and throughout the county this after noon, the idea being generally expressed that the rejection of the Gladstonian candidate has greatly weakened the Minis terial position. Oar Newton correspondent telephones this evening that the news of the result was received with pleasant surprise at that town. It was telegraphed to all parts of the division and placards were issued in a veiy short-time pointing the lessons to be deduced from the Unionist victories at Forfar and Brigg. Where is Hobbs J Under the receiving order recently rr- ' against J. W. Hobb , of Liberator notorjc . it is stated says the Central News the order sent to tbe convict at Worir.woo-Scrubbs Prison has been returned mark-' gone away, and no farther inform,-given the order was made upon the petit n of the liquidator of J, W. Hobis un i Co Limited Chief Constable sent to Goal. At Bradford Police Court to-diy Jam Philip Woodman, Chief Constable of Rugate, Surrey, was charged with ember mg monies of the Bradford Corporation amounting altogether to £250 Prisoner was f, riu-i.v chief clerk in the Bradford Police O'ic . and I fora period of three years had rys'emati- 1 v I falsified the accounts. Prisoner plea led ! guilty, and urged that he had vse! ther. r.yi j tor tbe support of relations. He was sentt ncec to five months' imprisonment. SPORTING. Run at 2.5 Great Sandown Steeplechase handicap of 300 sovs, tbe second to receive 25sovs, and the third 10 oat of tho race. About three miles and a half. Captain Aikin's Redbill Mr II Ripley 1 Mr Winger's Wild Man from Borneo Mr T J Widgcr 2 Mr Sbcdbeck's Badminton ...A Nightingall 3 Also ran -Ardcam, Torchlight, Schooner, Ceylon, Up and Down. Betting-7 to 4 agat Badminton, 9 to 4 Ardcam, luO to 12 Schooner, 10 to 1 Wild Man from Borneo, Torchlight, 100 to 6 Red-hill, Ceylon o . Ran at 2.35 Long Dittos- Selling Hurdle Rack of 200 j manner throughout The Kensington Murder. Accused before the Magistrate. Reginald Sannderson, ngrd 21, of Ki.s'cote Hampton Wick, was charged at i. Writ London Police Court before Mr Curtis Ber.t.etr this morning with the wilfnl murder d Augusta Daves, age abont 29, by cutting her throat in Holland Park-road, Kensington, or. November 25th last. A large crowd had assembled in the vicinity of the Court await ing the accused, wiio was brought from Kensington Police Station in the c isto-i v t Superintendent Ferrets, of the F Division, and Sergeants Thompson and Dvscn He was taken into the room assigned for the use of the police while waiting for his case 11 be called. FIs wore a iarge ulster, and his sovs. Two miles. Mr Hcasman's Prince Frederick. 11 10 Williamson 1 j Mr Gore's Gateshead, 11 5 Owner 2 Mr Hibbert's Samarcand R Nightingall 3 Also ran-St Dunstan, Surprise, Halsbnry, First King, Ribbie, Gilt Edged, Silver Image, King's Birthday, Toil and Trouble, Scottish Jewel. Betting-9 to 4 agst St Dunstan, 3 to 1 Prince Frederick, 7 to 1 Toil and Trouble, 10 to 1 Samarcand, 100 to 8 bar four o . Won in a canter by three lengths ei 'ht Ungths between the second and third. Ran at 3 10 Handicap Steeplechase of 100 sovs. Two miles. Mr McCorkell's Mariner Escott 1 Mr E Loder's Boy Chieftain touws-n 2 Mr Gooch's Wheatfield tread 3 Also 1 an-Great Scott II, Caromande II, Westmeath,gZieo, Pliny. Betting-13 to 8 sttit 11a i- e . 5 to 2 Great Sco t 6 to ljf'o Chiefiain, 100 to 8 bar three o . Won by four lengths a bad third. Great Scott 11 fell at the second fence and breaking one of his fore legs was speedily destroyed. Run at 3.40 Handicap Hurdle Race of 100 sovs. Two miles over eight hurdles Mr Miller's Will o' the Wisp Halsey 1 Mr It Walter's Shotaway Mr Davies 2 Mr Knight's Loyalty J Jones 3 Also ran - Simon Fraser, Cameronian, Wrangler, Sweetmeat, St Ignatius. Betting-9 to 2 agst Wrangler, Shota way. Loyalty, 5 to 1 Cemeronian, Will o' tho Wisp, 12 to 1 St. Ignatius, 10 to 1 Simon Fraser and Sweetmeat. Won in a canter by five lengths a neck separated the second and third.! 1 preceding?-Mr. Sims behalf aud unemotional, to prosecute on Treasury, and the accused ws defended. In opening the ca? Sims said the prisoner was a hoarder an establishment at Hampton V. m. appeared from there between s.x ar. o'clock on the evening of the murde ten o'clock the same evening he was the Haymarket, and at hail-pust o'clock a man answering to his dose was seen struggling with the woman, formal evidence prisoner was remau custody. The Bdltast Disaster. Resumed Inqusst. Me llv to Me id th-Sportsman Official Starting Prices. Moore Place FUt Race-Bowlegs, 100 to 8 agst I Selling Steeplechase-St .Anthony, 5 to 2agst Great Sundown Redhill, 100 to 6 agst Long Ditton Ildle-Prince Frederick, 3 to lag Handicap Steeplechase -Mariner, 13 to 8 agst H'cap Hurdle -Will o'The Wisp, 5 to agst Official Scratching?. Leicester engagements-All Mr John Craig's horses All engagements-Amiable Notes. Bradford the jockey spent another good night, and showed much improvement this rooming. ELLIMAN'S FOR ACHES AND PAINS. For Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sprains, Bruises, Sore Throats from Colei, Chest SPRAINS fc BRUISES. Colds. Stiffness, Cramp, Bronchitis, kc. Mr. .Lilian Girard. The Girards, Theatre Royal, UNIVERSAL Drury L idc, writes -- --■ 1 have used your Em brocation with surprising Is ljd, and 2s 9J. effect, and never intend being without it. prepared only by SORE THROAT FROM COLD. Eiliman.SonsA Co. From a Clergyman. For many years I have Slough, used your Embrocation, and found it most efficacious in England, preventing and curing sore throat, fro j cole. EMBROCATION. The inquest on the Indies children killed in tbe panic Schoolroom last Wednesday resumed to-day before Mr. E. city coroner. Head Constab the first witness examined to-da Mr. MoCartan, M.P.. who npp' next-of-kin of the deceased, sai observations lie had made lie f have been physically ini, the lad O'Donnell, who ga yesterday incriminating the i now in custody to i aie sei taming ont the ca position in which O'Donnell st- -boy Hobbs, next examined, dtp was three feet lrom tbe coal lie the nas Dieter was placed, ar.d. d McKenna turing off the McCarter at this stag sa Mr. Culler., a school teacher, a Father McClean present in Court necessary they would go into the w.tr. and refutecertaio statements ma-i • i by tho advance acent of the ti ' ' company that via giriig the peit- r relative to being asked to send tcac keep order, an i also as to the of tho money piid tor admissn the show Tin Coroner sai l it was in porter,t that these motfeis stionl I bt into for the purpose of finding it the been ary negl g n e or culpability -port of anyone. Fur that reason he request both gentlemen to remain - A Kerri gam, one of the teachers of the s -which the disaster occurred, denied tti had received any invitation from eit Arthur or his agent to be present show. He was in his own hoi joining the school when the panic o He rnshcd into the building by tl door. Tbe place was in total Finding be was unable to light witness ran to the meter and tarne-The children were piled each other at the front his brother carried of them into the yard. . he been keys to lock up the cellar m wluca w meter is placed, but for over a V J. ., t..-_i--A harp imDO'SIDl at the cn to door. umbo a large ~ Kormerlv there had he been lost. It would have been lmpossi tarn out the gas at the meter in the described by the witnesses Hobbs. Iirjnir7 proceeding. O'Donr. i and Printed and Published by WILLIAM JONES, tor '.he proprietors, tne ' ' post'Company Limited , at tne ■ ' f '., ing Offices. North-street,in tbe Pa. . Paul s, in the City ot Exeter, on 3 ™' December 8tb, lSP aud ms VOL PHE FAIt S ,TL ' For 6ERVAV TO Li 21 Word-£8 .. E V II fgr Bcp! tc the L ' t 29. No' 1 ilTUA Post. Ladies plea ' stomp lor re selection of • Registry, 97. I P ART.OUl Wajp -references, i Aiiencv. New 2 Stamp f Burston, For Tutchi IV expe • Rawlings. Hu B A1 Li i H earliest li e v highest refegnmouti U NDER-1 of situa. Strand, hi, K ESPEui tiou a years' refer, Mitchell, Pm H ous. Bncl 4 Dawlish. JlNtiH J® month fr Grooms, £oo i ticu.'ars., a fnvtoloiwN ♦ Th borough ly n or.' l i ?f rr f L i tuawl,.. i T i. . v i 
1 d ty is published, THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. XLIX. NTENTS.-I. SPANISH DRAMA.-El Tcatro i panol._U. NORTHEUN AFRICA and the NI-T..R- Stateqfl ezzan-Captain Lyon's Travels in northern Africa-Rev. J. Dudley's Dissertation on V.?Jfe nt,ty ? f Ac Niger ami Nile-Ill. The SKETCH l ' KAYOJ G Dent-IV. MILU iaVKV iORCbotGREAT BRITAIN Rise, Pro gress, and Present State ot the ART ot WAR Dupnr, Voyages dans la Grande Bretagne V. The • NIAN.- I. Normandy.-Architecture of the Middle Ages.-Origin of GOTHIC Akchitec-TL'BE-VII. Balwiudder, Annals of the Parish V HI. Mitford's History of Greece IX. PARRV, NORTH-WEST PASSAGE, and POLAR SEA X Scudamore on Mineral Waters XI. LAW of DIVORCE and MARRIAGE in England and Scotland. Printed for JOHN MLRRAY, Albemarle Street, London and sold by OLIVER BOYD, Edinburgh. A YOUNG LADY, O F most respectable connections, and a Native of England, wishes for a situation as GOVERNESS, either in a School, or Private Family. She will instruct her Pupils in French, Drawing, and Oeoouai'iiy, with the common branches of Education. Letters post paid addressed K. Y. care of the Pub lisher, will be answered in a few days. Aberdeen, July 2, 1821. PETERHEAD CIRCULATING LIBRARY. fllHEKEW PROPRIETORS of this LIBRA-JL RY beg to intimate to the Public, that, after re ceiving very considerable additions, it is now ready for circulation. Terms of Subsciiption -For a Year, 12s For Half-H-yoar, 7 --For a Quarter, 4s.-For a Month, 2s. It is the Proprietors' intention, as much as possible, to increase this Library, which already comprehends up ward of 11100 Volumes consistently with the degree of encouragement alfordcd them, so as in every respect, to render it worthy of the attention of persons of taste and learning. In short, they may assure the Subscribers, that neither pains or expense shall be snared for their gratification. . V. Catalogues are now ready for distribution jfprire fid. by George Mu die. Librarian, St. Andrew's Street, who hau always on hand Books in every department of Science and Literature. STATIONARY, in all its branches, c. See. , LOOKS bound in the neatest manner. Peterhead, July 7, 1821. • EXPEDITIOUS TRAVELLING TO LEITH. The TOURIST, Steam Yacht, S AILS regularly from ABERDEEN for LEITH, every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday Morning and from LEITH for ABERDEEN, every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Morning receiv ing and discharging Passengers ofFStonehaven, Montrose, Arbroath, Crail, Anstruthcr, Pittcnwcem, Elic, nnd Dy-sart, all of which the Tourist easily accomplishes in Twelve Hours. Cabin Fare to Leith, 18s-Steerage, 10s.-Intermediate distances in proportion. N.B.-This Company having note made arrangements with the Custom-house, for allowing PARCELS and LIGHT GOODS to be shipped by their Steam Vessels all Goods and Parcels intended to be shipped by this con veyance must be lodged at the Company's Office in Leith, before 12 o'clock on the day previous to the Vessel's sail ing and at Mr D. Copland's, Aberdeen, btfote 2 o' clock. Goods or Packages must not exceed from three to Jour barrel bulk. Time of Sailing in the Morning, and other particulars, may be learned, by applying at the Subscriber's Office, Marischal Street. DAVID COPLAND. Aberdeen, 9th July, 1821. mi.ys jack H LGS leave respectfully to inform tier Friends iu u the Public, that she is now returned from Lon don, with a choice selection of the most fashionable pat terns in MILLINLR and DRESS-MAKING, which she hopes will meet their approbation. Upperkirkgalc, July 10, 1821. TUTOR WANTED, By a Gentleman in the vicinity of Aberdeen, fpO Superintend the EDUCATION of his'Two JL Sons, sixteen and eighteen years of age 11c must be a good French Scholar, and be qualified t Teach Arithmetic and Book-keeping, and the usual branches of Education. The most respectable references will be required as to character and abilities. For Terms, and other particulars, apply to Alexander Thomson, Advocate, Aberdeen. FARM ON COUNTESSW ELLS. There is to be Let, with entry at Martinmas first, rjjpIIE FARM of COLT HILL, comprehending JL part of the Mains of Cour.tcsswellx, which has for several years been in the natural possession of the Pro prietor, and put in hue heart and condition for a Tenant. The contents of the Farm may be about Fifty acres but it can bo extended, more or less, by the af tion of some contiguous Fields, if this is deemed an object by those who wish to offer. A substantial and commodious Dwelling Hoits?,'and Farm Steading, has just been erected by the Proprietor, to which the Tenant will have immediate access, upon dead inventory, without any payment in the way of me lioration. Farther particulars will be learned, by applying to Duncan Davidson. Advocate, with whom offers may be lodged betwixt and the 2d day of August next. N.B. There arc several FIELDS on the .Mains Farm which will be Let together or separately, as offerers may incline. HOUSE AND GARDEN IN SCHOOL-HILL. ■ '■Upset Price Reduced to £700. To be sold, by public roup, in Dempster's Hotel, Aber deen, on Thursday the 80th of August myu, at two o'clock afternoon, II A T Airy and Commodious , DWELLING A HOUSE, in the Kchcol-hiii of Aberdeen, with the Garden and Offices adjoining, which belonged to, and were lately occupied by, the Deceased John 'Gordon, Esq. of Murtle having Gordon's Hospital, and the Hos pital Garden, immediately opposite, or. the North. The House contains Parlour, Dining Room, Drawing Room, and four Bid Rooms, all lately fitted up by Mr Gordon, at cor . dcrable cxpencc besides four Coilm-ceiled Rooms, Closet, Kitchen, Drying Garret, and very ample Cellarage. Convenient Offices are attached and part of the Gar den admits of being Feucd off to great advantage, with front both to the Scliocl-HU and Belmont-street. Apply to Mr Duncan Davidson, Advocate. TRENCH AND IT A LI VN LA X .it AC AS. MR. JAMES 1 5 ATON ' . ' K ESPECTFULLY announces to his employers , and the Public, that he lias IlcafovEI to a Gen teel School Room in Union Street, Second Floor above that Shop lately occupied by Mr Clerihew, where, on .Monday, 30th July, he will Open his SUMMER CLASSES. Private Instructions in Families, and at Mr P. s Class Room, where hours of attendance, and other particulars, may he learned. , . , On Monday, lfith July, between 7 and 8 in the morn ing, he will open a 'LASS lor RATING, in Mr. Baton's Class-Room in the Academy. Number of l'upiis in each French and Italian 'lass will be limited to Six. NEW CATALOGUE or THF. PUBLIC LIBRARY, BROAD STREET. Fin HE Proprietors of this Establishment have just J. published a Now and Extensive CATALOGUE, containing, in addition to the accumulations of former years, every Literary Work of merit, up to the Publica tion of the Catalogue and they beg to assure their Sub scribers and the Public, that they shall strive, by sparing neither attention, labour, nor cxpencc, and by fresh ad ditions to their stock of Books from time to time, to ren der the PUBLIC LIBRARY worthy of their continued am! increased support. N. B. It is requested that the Rules be strictly com plied with, in regard to the time allowed for reading New Books, us otherwise the numerous demands cannot be supplied and as several infringements of the Rule in regard to writing upon, cutting, or otherwise destroying the Books, particularly that of meriting upon, nave lately been observed, the Proprietors earnestly entreat at tention to it. as they are resolved not to pass over, un noticed, such mischievous and wanton amusement. A. BROWN CO.'s, Broad Street. j TO FOR THE JUSTICES OF PEACE ABERDEENSHIRE. FJMIE ABSTRACT of the BRIDEWELL ACT, JL- published by the Commissioners in IfiOR, being now re-printed, Copies thereof, with Forms of Warrant of Commitment, may be had, on applying at tlie Office of Mr Burnett, Belmont .Street. THO. BURNETT, Cute. Aberdeen, July 10, Mil. HOUSE ON DENBURN, FOR SALE. Upset Pi ice Helmed to .-C275.J To be sold, by public roup, in Dempster's Hotel, Aber deen, on Thursday the 30th of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, riMIAT Neat and Commodious NEW HOUSE, it. on the West Bank of the Denburn, with the small Yard, or Bleaching Green in front, as presently occupied by Mr James Reid, Merchant. It contains Dining. Room, Drawing Room, and four Ikd Rooms, besides Kitchen, Wash-house, large Drying Garret, Cellars, and other accommodations in a situation which is airy and pleasant. Apply to Duncan Davidson, Advocate. For Sale, by Public Rovp, ■ -A COMPACT AND DESIRABLE . ESTATE j.v Aberdkrnsbirk. There will be sold, by public roup, within the house of John Dempster, Vintner in Aberdeen, on Friday the 7fii day of September next, at fi o'clock afternoon, A LL and WHOLE the LANDS and ESTATE of COLLY HILL, and MILL LANDS of the tame, MULTURES, TEINDS, and others, belong ing io the Trustees of the Deceased Alex. Rhind, Esq. 11 in the parish of Bourtie. Taw Property consists of- a. r. r-Infield, 63 '2 0 Outfield, 181 3 28 Pasture, - 27 D 0 Wood, 41 52 34 326 I 21 1 lies within two miles of Oldmcldrum, and about the distance from Inverury to both of which places there are excellent turnpike roads from Aberdeen, be sides the Aberdeenshire Canal to Inverury. The Teinds are valued and exhausted, and the Land Tax is redeemed. The Lands hold of a subject superior, for payment of a trifhng duty. The greater part of the price may remain in the hanas of the purchaser for a considerable time, it desired. I or further particulars, apply to Alexander Smith, Advocate, Correction Wynd, Aberdeen. CHEAP AND EXPEDITIOUS TRAVELLING BETWEEN ABERDEEN ANI LKITXI. THE ABERDEEN, LEITH, CLYDE SHIPPING CO.'S STEAM YACHT, V E LOG I T Y, JAMES BELL, Commander, S AILS for NEWHAVEN near LEITH, on Fri day Morning, at fi o'clock precisely, and will call off Stonehaven, Montrose, Arbroath, Crail, Anstruther, Elie, and Dysart. The Velocity will continue to sail regularly from Aberdeen every Monday, Wednesday, anti Fri day and from Ncwnavcnj every Tuesday, Thurs day, and Saturday, receiving and discharging Pas sengers at the above Ports. Aberdeen, Leith, cj Clyde Shi . Co's. Office, Ilf July, 18 ESTIMATES WANTED, FROM MASONS AND CARPENTERS, 7 011 BUILDING a WASHING HOUSE at l BRIDEWELL. Thu Mans and Specifications will be seen in the hands of -Mr Burnett with whom Estimates must be lodged on or before the 18th instant. Aberdeen, July 10, 1821. WANTED, L FEW Good HANDS in the CABINET LINE. Apply to John Bartlett, Cabinet Maker and Upholsterer, Union Street. V A LU A BLE PROP I! RTY f TIIE GALI.OWGATF., Foil SALE. To be Sold, by Private Bargain. rgMIAT excellent DWELLING HOUSE, with k the Two GARDENS, OFFICES, and PERTI NENTS, on the East side of the Gallowgate of Aber deen, formerly belonging to Mr George Cruiekshank-and now occupied by Charles Bonnor, Esq. The House is very commodious, ami was substantially repaired a few years ago and the Garden extends to the summit , of the Port-hill, from which there is one of the finest views around Aberdeen. The r l itle Deeds are in tile hands of Messrs. Stevenson and Scott, . S. Edinburgh, to whom, or to Messrs. Lumsden, Advocates, Aberdeen, application may be made for farther particulars. FOR SALE, BY PRIVATE BARGAIN, P'EpIIA7 HOUSE, with the STABLES and vacant JL GROUND, possessed by George Gipson, Sta bler, lying in the Close leading from the head of Broad ' Street to the North Street. 'Flic property is very centrical, and will always com mand good Tenants. On the vacant Ground several Houses might be erected. George Gibson will shew the Property and for farther Dii.0--At Cromarty, upon tht- A tl. nit the iiv . Ai.ex. M'Leod, Minister of the Gaelic Chapel there His memory will long live in4he hearts of his congre gation, to whom his fervent piety and affectionate de meanour amongst them rendeicd him most dear. At Edinburgh, on the 25th ult. Mrs. Margaret Graham, relict of Alex. Bower, Esq. of Kinculdrum, in the 83d year of her ago. Died, at Montrose, on Sunday last, Mr Andrew Mearns, Shipmaster, and for many years Shorpmas-ter at that port. Died, at School-house of Mortlach, on the 1st July, after a lingering illness, Andrew ICinnaikd, Surgeon, Gardcnstcwn, aged 32, greatly lamented by his friends and numerous acquaintances. At Viewiield Cottage, near Inverness, on the 25th ult. John Noble, Esq. of the India House, London. At Edinburgh, on the 1st curt Miss Mooitr. Grant, youngest daughter of the late Rev. James Grant, mi nister of Laggan. We are happy to observe, that the Gentlemen of this city and county, with that loyalty and public spi rit which has ever been their characteristic, intend to celebrate the day appointed for the Coronation of Ifis Majesty, by a Public Dinner on the occasion. The Right Hon. Lord Forbes has been invited to take the 'hair supported l v the Lord Provost of the City and the meeting, it is expected, will comprize.all the principal landholders and gentlemen of the district.-Preparations, we understand, are likewise making in all quarters of the country, for celebrating the day, by ap propriate marks of festivity. The Treasurer of the Aberdeen Auxiliary Bible So ciety lately received, by the bauds of Mr Wm. Simp son, in Corse, Forgue, the sum of LG 8s. as a remit tance from the Bible Association in the parishes of Forgue and Drumblade. London Missionary Society.-We understand that the Itev. Mr Leifciiild, from London, is ex pected to advocate the cause of this Society in this. City, cn Sabbath next and to preach, in the forenoon, in the Frederick Street Chapel in the afternoon, in the. Burgher Chapel, Union Street and in the even ing, in tlie George Street Chapel. When it is consider ed that this Society is the Parent and Stem of Mis sionary Establishments that the labours-of ifs Mis sionaries have been of so much importance in South Africa, in India, ai.d especially in the South Sea Islands and that it lias, during last year, expended three thou sand six hundred pounds beyond its receipts, and come under very weighty obligations for the current year, it is to be hoped our fellow-citizens will come forward, with their wonted liberality, in support of such an important Institution. We have been requested to contradict a paragraph which appeared in our last, as to the crowded state of the Mail Coach between this place and Banff, and which was sent to us by a gentleman residing near Old Meldrum. We are now informed, from the best au thority, that the Coach lias repeatedly, of late, per formed her journey with a single passenger and this statement receives confirmation from the circumstance that the contractors for the Day Coach, called the Earl of Fife, were under the necessity of relinquishing that concern, after a sacrifice of £600 to £'700, actual loss, within the last year. The Tourist, Steam Yacht, not having arrived ot her usual time, on Monday evening, occasioned consider able anxiety to the friends of the numerous passengers on board. By a letter from Leith, we understand, the detention was occasioned by one of the boiler plates giving way, and damping the fire-a circumstance tlie recurrence of which is now effectually provided against. She is expected here this evening, and w ill sail, as usual, on Thursday.-See ndn. On Wednesday, tlie 28th June, the Rev. Mr Mar shall, formerly assistant to Mr Mollcson of Montrose, ABERDEEN SHIPI'iNG. a n n i i • July 3.--Albion, Newton, fciurderland Maxwell, Burgos, doi Ciimonmogate, Anderson, do. 4. Rose, Phillips, do. Margaret, Loggnn, do. Charleston, An-nftnd, do. Linnet, Weddel, Rye Brornby, Middle-top, Hull. 5. Alpha, Anderson, Wemyss Tourist, Brin, Leith- Sophia, Willfnmwon, Wick' Swift, Alex ander, .Sunderland Friends' Increase, Hobson, do. Ve locity, Bell, Leith, fi. Expert, Leslie, London Regent, Turner,do. Mary,Gordon, Dysart Osr.ian, Bruce, Sun derland Union, Greig, do. Marquis of Himtly, Dr.rid-son, Leith Clyde Packet, Weir, Glasgow Flora, Loftcl, Dingwall. 7 Tourist, Bain, Leith Dee, Mof fat, Rotterdam Friendship, Spinks London Sophia, Sinclair, Leith 'Velocity, Bcl'l, do. Flora. Sinclair, London. 8. Huddleston, Mslntty, Sunderland Hen ry and William, Alien, do. Johnston, Walker, do, Aberdeen Packet, I err T London L. C. Hamilton, Gal loway, Sunderland Maria,- L'argic, do. Briton, Kirk-hope, do. Jean, Bathcw, London. P. Dima, LirAlat-te , Sunderland Ann, Stephan, Peterhead Vine, White, Sunderland Dolphin, Morice, Yarmouth. 10. Thecphilus, Ruticy, Sunderland Perth, Seller, n . . Ceres, Your.fr, Ineerkeithing Sir William W.w ec, Anderson, M iramiehi. SAILED-July 3-Champion, Cran, London Cato, Davies, do. Allies, 31 ess, do. Industry, McDonald, Sunder land Velocity, Bell, Lath. 4. Waterloo, Reid, Lon don Edward, Masson, Sunderland Alpha, Wood, Bullers of Buchan. 5. Juno, Blev.es, Dundee Indus trious Mary, Lyall, Sunderland B H, Fintray, Ar broath 'Tourist, Bain, Leith Thetis, Crutchlv, Lon, don. fi. Velocity, Bell, Leith Counters of Elgin, Still, Montrose Eliza, West, Newcastle Perseverance,' Greig, Shcerm-ss Linnet, Vadell, Sunderland Tou rist,'Bain, Leith. 7- Mansfield, Morison, London Wellington, Gilbertson, Hull Triumph, Findlay, Lon don .George Ann, Davidson, Sunderland Charleston, ' Annand, do. Superb, Mathcson, London. 8. Flora, Loftcl, Bc.auly Velocity, Bell, Leith. 8. Friendship, Spinks, Wick Newcastle, Leslie, Newcastle Lord Iluntly, Philips, Spey Marquis ofHimtly, Davidson, Leith Alpha, Anderson, Kirkcaldy Eliza, Suther land, Bullers of Buchan. Commerce, Anderson, at London, 1st inst-Superior, Duncan, at do. 4th do. ' Eliza, West, at Newcastle, 8th instant. Asia, Morice, at New South Wales, 28th Decem ber, 1820. The Earl of Aberdeen, Ligertwood, arrived at Mi-ramichithe 20th May, in 30 days frtnn Dublin states the fallowing particulars of Aberdeen vessels The Pilot, Law, arrived thereabout the 10th'May, and on tlie 1st June iiad on board a tier of timber a-bovc the beams, and expected to be ready in a week afterwards. At this dale, the progress of tlie undermentioned vcss.Vi in loading was as follows Harmony, Murray, half loaded. Ceres, liait, a tier above the hold beams. Margaret, Aiken, nearly full below the beams. Canada, Cooper, begun to load. Louisa, Oswald, about 20 tons on board. lieilhei lowd nor pun-d-J.o w.. .•pp .U .tr. hk -by human sufterings, and paiticipau-d little in hu v,..ti joys. This insensibility was. one of the causes of his wonderful success and it was, no doubt, ime of the reasons of his rapid descent. He never had, perhaps, a real friend and os he never felt sympathy, he ne -v inspired it. He commanded admiration he inspires the greatest zeal in his service hc eonirou'ed the mi.u s of his adherents and he exercised aq empire over them, which was quite unparalleled. But lie creat ed no attachment and the ruble fidelity w hich saute? of his followers shewed to him ir. his adversity, Was the homage which a mind like his could exact from generous natures but it was rot afieciion. As u his military talents they arc so deeply engraven on the brazen'tablet oi' fame, that it would show 1c -, stupid ty, than the envy of a. base spirit, to deny them. But t was in his capacity of Ruler, that die hardness of his character displayed itself chiefly. Then his solita rv nature was most conspicuous. With a capacity for government, of tfip highest order with a command over the vast resource of the Empire winch he. had formed, greater titan Sovereign ever possessed with an activity that never reposed yet he did little fci !ie happiness of France and even the monuments of his reign, which were erected to his own pride, do fcot at all correspond with tlie resources which be had at his disposal. The nation, instead of being ifeincd bv him, was depressed by his genius-the lofty sentiment wu crushed the pride of individuality was extinguished and the spirit, though not tlie harshness, of eastern despotism was displayed in his Government. From his elevated throne he looked down only upon croud - • ing slaves. He conferred upon them titles and ho nours, and dignities but they were badges of servi tude they conferred no real dignity of mind thev imparted no conscious pride and they served ordv b v their decorations o #d wealtii u swell tlie pomp of his Court. The principle of Ins Government was self -ness and we qre compelled to say, whilst we are im posed to do ample justice to his extraordinary t en3 , that he did not make use of it in such n manner .v ought to give him a title to the gratitude of mankip.i. It is affirmed that Sir Hu ■Ison l-O'.V'.'s orlrjs i1 Oovprnnsent-are, tliat he shall brim horns' , Bonaparte, in tlie largest ship of tin ii ir or tla- statieti. If this account,be true, the report afj,. Intemtentw rot corree'tvof course. Every due Milioiir vjll ho i 0 his remains and itho' an inexorable policy con.pelled the British Government to treat him, when niive, ami in their power, with a rigour entirely foreign to its character, they will act with their customary genero sity, now that the death of this singular man has re leased thorn from the painful duty which circumstances imposed upon them.. The sensation produced by the death of Bonaparte will be coufincd, in this country, to its effect as a relief to our finances, the cxpencc of his custody at St. He lena being little short of 1100,000 per annum. In France,'tlie sentiment w ill he mole deep, and perhaps • not altogether aci t sv t i lr iro. Aimwell, Morrison, a tier above the beams. The Venus, Anderson. Mary Ann, Moore Juno, j no altogether so easy, to define. Henderson Patriot, Troup and Earl of DnUiouue, 1 Livie, arrived at Quebec, the 14th May. j Toe Queen having demanded to be heard by counsel The Sufibile, Captain Smith, from Dublin, tc St. in support of her right to be crow ned at tlie arm w' l OtU 1 1 l s.l. . John's, N. B. went on shore'on Cape Sable, 12th j ing solemnity on the 19th instant, the request to bo May. Passengers and crew saved also, the cargo, j so heard, before the Privy Council, has been granted l v his Majesty • and accordingly, on Thursday last, at tort o'clock, the Privy Council assembled at Whitehall fer was r-dained to his charge at Swallow-Street Chapel, London, to which he had received an unanimous call. On Wednesday of last week some inconsiderate per sons lighted a fire near the corn yard of Newfield in Boss-shire, the property of Mr Davidson of Findhorn, with the intention of scaring crows, which were be coming destructive among the stacks. The fire soon fioSSr be nmde to Wm ' Smith I comm u .dcatiti w ilhpart of the corn yard, and before 1 it was possible to extinguish it, nearly five large stacks of wheat were consumed, estimated at about 30 bolls each. St. Peter's market was held at Forfar on Wednes day. It has not been so thinly attended for 4 years. Cattle were much lower in price, and tlie sale heavy. Best quality, 7s. per stone inferior, C's. Cd. The depression was owing in a great measure to the scar city of grass occasioned by the extreme drought damaged. It is reported she will not be got ofiT but her materials will be saved. The Alexander, Booth. Fairfield, Work Monarch, Martin and Granite, Scorgie, arrived at St. Joint's, N. B. 10th May, from Aberdeen. The Pallas, Moil , arrived at Lcchalsh tlie 26th ult. to take out emigrants for Cape Breton. The Fairly, from Liverpool to Stornoway, founder ed off the isle of Skye. 'Hie Sir William Wallace, Anderson, arrived from Miramichi on the Oth hist, after a passage of. 5 weeks, and reports the Aimwell, Morrison Ceres, Ilaitt I'iloi, Law and Suspcnce, nearly loaded. the purpose. Tlie Council was the fullest that has been held for many years, comprising the Dukes of York and Clarence, the Cabinet Ministers, and about thirty oilier Peers, besides the Judges. After reading her Majesty's Memorial to the King, of which a copy is subjoined, Mr. Brougham addressed the Council Vn support of Her Majesty's right, which lie chiefly rest ed on the fact that no married King of this country had ever been crowned without his consort partakin r of the solemnity. Where this had not taken place. MONEY TO BE LENT. II REE Sums of £200, on heritable securities.--JL Apply to William Smith, Advocate, Netlierkirk-SIIOOTING QUARTERS. IVanted, for two or three Yount Gentlcmci , npiIK PRIVILEGE of SHOOTING MUIR JL GA31E, for the first 10 or 14 days of the ensuing Season, on Grounds in the Counties of Aberdeen or Banff. Any Gentleman who can give the accommodation Tlie census of the town and parish of Dundee, pre sents the following results -Town and suburbs-wanted, wfiere tolerable sport may be expected, will be j males, 12,690 females, 15996 in the country part A 1 CONTRACTORS ARE WANTED, rjRO CUT about 2000 Ells of Large Open Ditches, fe_ and some Covered Dnnixs and also to Fare and Bu.-n from Two to T hree Acres of Moss Ground, on the Farm of NETHERTON, parish of Cairn'cy, Intending Contractors for executing the work, are re quested to attend there on Friday, the 20 h current, when an agreement will be made witn those whose Estimates av men accepted of. For further information, inquire at Messrs. George Hern, at Netherton or Thomas Shier, in Iluntly. Not to be repeated. nOUBOF SAW-MILL MACHINERY TOOLS, Ac. TO BE LET, To one or more Tenants, for 19 or 21 tyeors, BOUT 30 ACRES of IMPROVE ABLE _ GROUND, in the HILL of MURTLE. There is an excellent Dwelling House and Offices, newly erect ed, and a good Road leading from the Turnpike. The Proprietor will trench and inclose the whole of the ground-the Tenants paying interest for the expense titereof. Every encouragement will be given to indus trious Tenants'with some capital and none but such need apply. j'oibes Craighead, Grieve at Murtle, will point out the Ground and offers are to be given in to the Pro prietor, at Murtle, betwixt this and the 8th day of Aug. on which day the Ground will be Let. TO CARTERS. Wanted, CONTRACTORS fbr REMOVING the STONES from about eleven Acres of TRENCHED GROUND on the Hili. of Muuti.k, to the extremity of the Fields where tlie D kes arc to be built. Forbes Craighead, Grieve at Murtle, will point out the boundary lines to which the Stones are to be removed j and petsons willing to contract for the whole, or any part of the Work, may attend at Murtle, at 12 o'clock neon on the 20th instant. July 11, 182!. treated with, on liberal terms, by communicating with of the parish-males, 373 females, 1011 -giving James Grant, Advocate in Aberdeen. a total, for the town and parish, of 30,575, The re turn in 1811 was 29,71G. The number of inhabited houses, is said to be 2651 of families, 7704 of houses building, 17 of houses uninhabited, 105 of families chiefly employed in agriculture, 307 of families chiefly employed in trade, manufactures, and handicrafts, 422.3 of all other families, .9174. The population of the town and parish of Inverness has just been ascertained, and amounts to 12,194.-In 1811 it was 11,600,-giving an increase of only 594. In 1811 a woollen and a thread manufactory were in PLEASANT SITUATION FOR VILLAS, In the neighbourhood of Aberdeen• QEVERAL FIELDS, on the LANDS of FOUN-TAINTIALL, are intended to be FEUE1 for j Building and will be given off in such quantity as can be agreed on. In ali the fields there is an inexhaustible supply of ex cellent Spring Water, a few feet under the surface tlie ground Iks on a good exposure to the South, and shelter ed from tile North. It is within twenty minutes walk of the centre of the town, and yet has all the retirement of the Country. Apply to Alexander Copland, Advocate, Queen Street. LIGHT POST COACH. To be sold, by public roup, at Village of Mor.ymusk, on Monday next, the lfith July curt., A Quantity of SAWS, WHEELS, PULLEYS, and other MACHINERY nnd TOOLS, of va-liiuts sorts, lately used in and about the Saw.Mill at Monymusk. Muny of the Articles are of excellent quality, and well worth the attention of Carpenters,-Wopd Sawyers, and others in want of such. T he Roup to commence exactly.at 12 o'clock mid-day. Credit, on security. A- COOPER, Auctioneer. Monymusk, 9th July, lfi 21. BEAUTIFUL VILLA, AND GUO UNI , to ni soiio And FARM to be t.tr. TO THE CREDITORS Of PrTKi Disks, late Merchant in Crdntovm. M R. INNES having lately died, leaving various matters unsettled, all those to whom he was any ways indebted at the time of his death, are, particularly requested to meet within tlie ollice of Joint Forsyth, Writer in Forres, on Wednesday the lfith July'cmt. at 12 o'clock noon, in order to determine on some general measure respecting the disposal and management of his Estate. Such as cannot attend personally arc earnestly' solicited to authorise some person to act for them. Forres, July 9, 1021. Not to be repeated. ■ . i rSAHAT delightfully situated COTTAGE, called 1 FONT-HILL, near the mouth of the lfi.e-pre-setttly possessed by Major Fisher With a complete Garden and Hot-hcnise, stocked with every flung useful for a Family and w,tiled round in the most substantial manner. T he Cottage contains Dining and Drawing Rooms, with Sleeping Apartments, Ac. suitable for the aecom. mrxlation of a family besides W asli-housel Stable, ore. with an abundant supply of fine Spring Water at the door. It combines the advantages both of a Town and Country Residence, bting not more than fifteen minutes walk from the Market Cross and having excellent air. K.T- a most delightful view of the Town and Bay of Aber deen, and of the surrounding country, for a great man s. IP's ides the Cottage and Garden, there are about Two Acres of Ground. The whole will he sold by private bargain arid mat be viewed oil Monday's or Saturday's, from 12 to 1 o'clock. . Particular may he learnt, by applying to Georgt W Ison, Advocate in Aberdeen or Dr Dyce, the Pro prietor. COMPACT AND DESIRABLE FARM, Within, four nil's of Aberdeen. The FARM of OUTTLEHILL, in tlie Parish ol N'-whills. on the Old Skene Road, immediately adjoin, ire to Whitetnyrek-consisting of upwards of'Jit Acres 74 of which are Arable, and in a high state ot cultiva •ion, and sub-divided by substantial Stone Dykes, int 20 Parks of various sizes which have for some yean been in Grass, and may now bo broke up with conside rable advantage to an incoming tenant. The whole wifi be let to a substantial tenant on advantageous terms. If these Lands are not let in one Farm, within three mouths, they will be divided into such Lots as tenants may incline, and on such leugth of Lease as may b . agreed on. _ - ,, Apply r td ove, to Mr Wilson. or Hr Dyce, the 1 to V io t '. HOUSE, fxc. TO BE SOLD. -• . n There will be sold, by public roup, withm the Lemon Tree Tavern, Aberdeen, upon Friday the 27th July curt, at 6 o'clock in the evening, rj'UlAT DWELLING HOUSE and SHOP, with H the Pertinents, situated oti the East Side of tli Correction Wynd of Aberdeen, formerly belonging to the deceased Marjory Duncan, and now.to her Trus tees, and presently possessed by Tliotr.as Coe ,, who will shew the premises. The title deeds and articles of roup are in.the hands of Joint Smith, Advocate, Gallowgatc, to whom for furthei information, application may he made. full employment in Inverness,-both which are now given up. The operations of the Canal were also car rying on in the immediate neighbourhood of the town, which are now completed. These works caused a great population in 1811, and are some of the reasons why the increase is so small. Population or the Town of Arbroath-exclu sive of the country part of tlie parishes, 8714. 1811. 1821. Increase. Birmingham, -81,253 101,128 19,870 Sunderland, ~ -25,180 80,882 5,702 Whitehaven, ~ - 13,367 16,396 3,209 Lancaster, 9,247 10,144 897 The Annual General Meeting of tlie Forbes Lodge of True Caledonians was held in tlie Town Hall of Old Meldrum, on Monday the 25th nit. After exa mining tiie Funds of the Lodge, which were found to have accumulated iu a most satisfactory manner, it anti the exceptions were very few it had arisen from Harmony, Murray and Margaret, Aiken, two-thirds peculiar circumstances. The learned Counsel cited loaded Earl of Aberdeen, Ligertwood, half-loaded j the several cases, from the Saxon Chronicle and other Louisa, Oswald, one-third anil Canada, Robison, j authorities as far back as the coronation of Richard one-fourth loaded. The Alexander, Hogg, not begun ! the First, and down to that of George the First. He concluded a very elaborate speech at 2 o'clock, when the Council adjourned till Friday, on which day he resumed his argument, and was followed by Mr. Den man, after which tlie Privy Council again adjourned till Saturday, when they heard the Attorney and Soli citor General in reply. Mr Brougham 'afterwards i load. PETERHEAD SHIPPING. AKItlKKn. Jnly-1-Mary, Henry, London Catherine,Murray, Newcastle Charles, Reid, Sunderland, fi. Bart, Hall, Sunderland. fl!' j I Tuesday, on which they meet to deliberate and givo ■J judgment. The question of the Queen's right to par heemess take in the solemnity of Coronation, w as denied by tlie Lnrk, Brodis, Newcastle. 9. Agunora, Berwick, Ise- ! Attorney-General to have the least foundation either SA ILK II. July 3-Fortitude, Hilson, Sheerness. Murrison, St. David's Nimrod, Anderson, 4. Venus, Sheerness dale Expert, Stephen, Fraserburgh Ann, Stephen, Aberdeen Dart, Hall, Spey. .SOUND LIST. June 20.-Bruce, Greig, Ilavannah, Pctwsburgh, t sugar. 22. -Union, Ord, Cromarty, do. ballast. 23. -Laurel, Reid, Petersburg! , Jersey, cor dage. .-Ocean, Brown, Mctliel, London, timber. The Nicholas, of Aberdeen, Capt. James, Pithoy, from Iiuvannah, bound to St. Petersburg! , is arrived, and performs four days quarantine. Belt our, Ellah, Rain als, Co. in law or usage. QUEEN'S MEMORIAL. postscript. rp HE Inhabitants of Oi.n Dkku, Stricken, Long-11 side, and Neighbourhood, have long complained, that when they had occasion to he in Aberdeen, to settle Bank or other business, they could not gut in by the Mail Coach sooner than two o'clock, which is after the hour of business, and were therefore put to the expence of being two nights in Aberdeen Guay and J affray, Proprietors of the Aberdeen and Peterhead Telegraph, therefore, beg to inform them, and the Public in general, that they are to htavt a LIGHT POST COACH, on Thursday the 19th ir.st. to leave Mintlaw every law ful morning, at a quarter past Jive o'clock, and meet tiie Telegraph Coach ut Birness Toll Bar, on the road lead ing from Peterhead to Aberdeen when Passengers, who have come with said .Mintlaw Light Post Ccacfi, will lie conveyed to Aberdeen hv the Tilcgraph and the Mint- was agreed upon to reduce the entry-money to one-law Light Post Ccac.h will be ready waiting in die after-1 half of the midi which was paid last year and the election of Office-bearers took place as follows, viz. THOMAS SIMPSON, President. Gf.o. Patf.rson, Vice-President. John Gray, Dean James Cruiekshank, treasurer, pro tempore J James Milne, secretary Krskine Maitland, champion Alexander Bruce, James Mor gan, stewards James Milne, Bethelnie, John Cowie-son, Peter Davidson, Alexander Hendry, Benjamin Troup, Joseph Chrystie, Alexander Manson, Alex. Rannie, pro tempore, counsellors John Barber, clerk John Davidson, officer. After the procession, there was a dinner and ball ami the company spent the evening In their usual good humour. DEATH OF BONAPARTE. Dispatches have been received from St. Helena, which contain tlie important intelligence of the decease of Bonaparte. lie expired on Saturday, the 5th of May, about six o'clock in the evening, of a lingering illness, which had confined him to lii.s bed for upwards of forty days. noon, to receive Passenger from the Telegraph, and will reach Mintlaw at seven same evening by which means,! people having Bank and other business to settle in Aber deen, will have four hours in the forenoon to do it, and be at their own homes same day. Inside Passage from Mintlaw to Aberdeen, Is. Outside, 5s. Small Parcels 4d., ancl larger ones proportionally, i Passengers will receive Tickets for Mmtjiaw, upon calling ut Wm. Gray's, Frederick Street. N.B. The Telegraph starts from A m. Gray',s, Fre derick Street, every afternoon, exactly at a putrter before three. and from J as. J aff ray's Ilu.tef, Peterhead, at half-past Jive every morning. TURBOT . r ILLbe sold at a Cellar in the Sugar-house Y ▼ Close, between 10 and 2 o'clock This l .iy and every day there are any caught. Fish of 7 lb. and under, 2s. fid. each. All above that weight, 4d. i lb. Quay, July 11, 1021. TORS Wanted, for FORMING and ING Two Miles of ROAl , conmvne-TO ROAD MAKERS.' C ONTRACTO j METALLIN ing near RaTmoir, and joining die Detsiutu Turnpike ut the Church of Upper Banchory. A Plan and Specification will be seen at Raemoir, where offers will be received. FARM TO BE LET. To be Let, by public roup, at Bervic, on Monday thv 27th of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, jnilE Farm of LAUGIK, in the parish of KinnefK Li consisting of about 1 Iff acres Arable Land and Yards 1 2 acres Pasture and about 5 0 acre's of AluL Ground. This Farm is inclosed and subdivided wit! •-tone dykes and lies on the side erf the turnpike road be-eweert Bervie and Stonehaven, being 3 mins from tin former, and 7 miles from the latter place. The greate part of the Farm ic presently in Grass. Further particulars will be given by Mr Brand, Writer Stonehaven nr David I ouson, Town-clerk, Arbroath. Arbroath, 7th July, 1821. N O T I C E. HPIIE Creditors of JAMES ROBERTSON JL Bogforth, parish of Cairnpy, arc requested to met within the Gordon Arms Inn, Iluntly, oh Tuesday th 17th current, at 12 o'clock noun, to see a Statement of hi? Affairs, and to concei t what may be the most proper mea sures to adopt for the interest of all concerned. Thos who cannot attend, will cither give in a state of thei Claims, on the day of the meeting, or transmit them, pre vious thereto, to the said James' Robertson. BogJ'y. th. hth July.- 1J.JJ CELEBRATION OF 0 3 fHajestp'3 Coronation TOWN AND COUNTY OF ABERDEEN. T is proposed to Celebrate the. CORONATION, by . a Fabric Dinner, on Thursday the lilt i of July current, under the direction of The Right Hon. LORD FORBES, And the LORD PROVOST of the City of Aberdeen. Loud Foubes in the Chair. On this oceus'um, it is hoped that os many Gentlemen nf the Town and County as conveniently can, will be present. Those who mean to attend, will ph ase leave their names .cith the Keeper of the Court House, or at the Athcu-rum, on or before Monday the HIM, at 2 o'clock, when t General Meeting will take place, iu the Saloon of the Court House, to nominate Stewards far conducting the accessary arrangements. Dinner, at 5 o'clock, on the terms of an Ordinary, at inch Flare as will be afterwards notified. Aberdeen, 10th July, 11121. , ... -w Slberfccen. WEDNESDAY, July 11. Died, at Forfar, on the 25th ult. PlTF.R Rankfk, T. .q. Sheriff-Sti-lMilute of luwiVshire. aged 78, CHARLES JAMIESON, WATCH MAKER, AND DEALER IN Ol'TICAL AND MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, CASTLE STREET, ABERDEEN, B EGS leave most respectfully to announce to the Nobility, Gentry, and Public of Aberdeen, his re turn to his Native City, and that he has Opened that Shop, in the Corner of the Town House, opposite th Plain Stones, where he intends earning on the above Also, Chime, Table, and Repeating CLOCKS. And having had many yearn experience in the first Houses in London, he flatters himself that he will, be able to serve those who may please to employ him, to their entire satis faction and trusts, that his attention and assiduity in business, will ensure a share of the public patronage.--Likewise, has to intimate, that he CLEANS and RE PAIRS French MUSICAL CLOCKS, WATCHES, and SNUFF BOXES. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS Furnished on the shortest notice, and warranted. C. J. with due deference, mentions, that the Stock of Goods lie has now on hand, are well worthy the inspec tion of the public. Orders from the Country will be punctually at tended to. -Dealers supplied on the most liberal terms. He desired that after his death his body should be opened, as he suspected lie was dying of the same dis ease which had killed his father, namely, a cancer in the stomach. Oil opening the body, this was found to lie correct, as a cancer had actually taken place.--He was sensible till the last day, and died without pain. During the first four weeks of his illness, it did not assume any dangerous appearance, though he appear ed himself to be conscious that it would terminate fa tally. During the last, fortnight it was evident to all the medical attendants that he could not recover. It is said lie gave directions abouf his affairs and papers till five or six hours before lie died, having retained his senses till that period. He said ho had wished to be opened, in order that his soil might be informed of the nature of liis disease. The body was opened by his own surgeon. lie has left a w ill, which, with his other papers, have been, or will be, transmitted to this country. lie was born in August, 1769. The dispatches were brought by Captain Crpkat of the 20th regiment. They were immediately commu nicated to all the Ministers, and to tlie Ambassadors, by whom couriers are understood to have been di patched to their different Courts. It has been supposed that the Heron, which brought the dispatches, also brought the body of Bonaparte to England but this, we understand, is not the case, He himself requested, when convinced that his disoi'-dc Toths King's Most Excelient Majesty, ik Council Assembled. The Memorial of her Majesty the Q c n sheweth, that your Majesty has, by your Royal I'mckmatier, j bearing date at Carlton.house, the 9th day of June in?-., declared your royal -oill and pleasure to celebrate the rv -lemnity of your Iioyal Coloration upon Thursdr tile Blth day of July next, at your Palace at Westminster, but that directions have net been given for the Coronation of tlie Queen, as hath heretofore been accustomed on the like occasions. That divers of your Majesty's subjects, by ancient customs and usages of these realms, as also in regard of divers tenures, of sundry manors, lands, ar.d other here, ditaments, do claim, and are bound to do and perform divers services on tlie day and at the time cif the Corona-tion of the Queens Consort of these realms, as in times S recedent their ancestors and those from whom they claim avedone and performed at the Coronation of the Queens Consort in times past That the Queen most dutifully claims, as of right, to celebrate the ceremony of her Koval Coronation, and to preserve, as well her Majesty's said right, as the a-foresaid lawful rights and inheritances of others your Ma jesty's subjects. The Queen respectfully prays that your Maiesiv will be graciously pleased forthwith to issue your Koyaj Pro clamation, thereby to apisrmtthc same liith July next, at Westminster aforesaid, to celebrate the ceremony of her Coronation as the Queen Consort of your Majesty, end to direct that all such as by the said customs and usages and tenures are bound to do and perform tire services a-foresaid, do duly give their attendances accordingly, at the said day and time of the Coronation aforesaid, in all respects furnished as to so great a .solemnity appertair.-cth, and answerable to the dignities and places which eve ry one of them hoidtth and enjoyeth arid further, that your Majesty will be graciously' pleased to issue your Koyal Commission under your Great Seal, appointing your Commissioners to teceive, hear, and determine, the petitions and claims which shall be made to then iu-tkis behalf. And the QUEEN, c. Paris journals to the 1st inst. have been received.-The Legislative Chambers pre still sitting. The com mittee of the lower house, on the proposal for continu ing the censorship on the French press, lias recom mended that this restriction n liberty be no longer continued. It raointains that there are laws sufficient to repress the licentiousness of the press, without this previous vassalage, or that such might be enacted. Tlie news from Turkey continues of the usual vague and uncertain description, as there are no gazettes printed in that quarter. Tlie Austrian Observes, printed at Vienna, on tlie lfith ult. says, that accord ing, to accounts from Bucharest of the 3d, the head quarters of the Turkish army, which had entered Wd-iachia under the orders of Hadschi Amecl Pacha v.as at Colentina. These troops were waiting until joined must terminate fatally, that lie might be buried ill by tiles Pacha of Ibrai , when tlie unites! troops would l l iulon 1 m C kf ♦ TTrsi.-.tv-i lV siwSo l sviifr .list -1 - til live It O T OI n et MCI 1 on t 1 li.U s AWnesm.,.,1 ... t ... . 7-. AMERICAN TIMBER FOR SALE. T To be sold, by public roup, on Saturday tlie 2lst inst. near Messrs. Catto. Thomson, Co.'s Kopework on the Links of Aberdeen, ' ■ fUIK ENTIRE CARGO of the Brig Sir Wit, iam Wallace, being the first imported this season consisting of 11,000 feet iff YELLOW PINE 5,000 feet of RED PINE and 1,000 feet of BIRCH. The Cargo was all lately rut ,.' aiid well selected, espe-dally the Yellow Pine, which is particularly calculated for Olefting. Those in want of such, will uml itm ur interest to attend, as the whole is intended tf he so.d off, C.jdit will he git eg. ■■dee, , .fid-, II. l 2l. the island of St. Helena and pointed out the spot in which he wished his remains to be placed. His fune ral, it was expected, would take place on the l Oth May, the day after the sailing of the Heron. Sir Hudson Lowe states, that he shall cause the body to be-interred with the honours due to a General Offi cer of the highest rank. The. illness of the ex-Empcror lasted in the whole six weeks, and its effects on his frame, as described by an officer who had frequent opportunities of seeing him during that period, were so powerful as nearly to reduce him to a skeleton, and to obliterate all traces of his former features. He suffered very severely at intervals, but was throughout tranquil and composed, and resigned to his fate. Though Bonaparte is supposed to have suffered much, his dissolution was so calm and serene, that not a sigh escaped him, or any intimation to the by standers that it was so near. Bonaparte was always tlie inveterate enemy of this country but he paid the f ull forfeit and if he did us much injury by his hostility, it was also the means of calling fortli so many energies, and producing such a display of patriotism on the pari of he country, that it may be fairly doubted, whether lie served or injured us mostly his enmity. But he is dead and the hatred which he excited when alive is buried in the grav which encloses his remains. The towering height to which he ascended the self-possession which lie dis played during his meteor-like ascent the humbli level from which.he darted and the perfect ease which he displayed, when ho alighted.on.. that giddy 'summit, evidently proved that his grr iii was.of the eagle kind. Bui if ho bad power n Ore Jtli m mortal, ho wa-nisd th ' umUbV qual tie's of huRwri nature'-l.v march against Ypsilanti, who .appeared to have in view to defend his position at Tergowischt his force, a mounted to upwards of 10,000 men. 'Tlie intelligence from Spain, both in the public pa pers and the private letters, continues to represent that .country as in an extremely disturbed state. A private letter from Madrid of the 15th ult. states, that the re volution ary club at the Fontana d'Oru, in that cltv, continued its sittings, and the citizens repaired to it well armed. It is mentioned, that thq. question dob at. ed at the club on the preceding day, related to tl e..in-, v violability of the King's person and those speakefflfe were loudly applauded, who maintained that tlie in violability ceased from the moment that there were any infractions of the laws, or of an oath. Three Lisbon, mails have been received, bringing the following intelligence. The King of Portugal has been delayed in the Brazils longer than wa at first anticipated but he has sent a dispatch to the Portu guese Cortes, not only assuring them that be will speedily return to his ancient kingdom, ar.d in their presence swear to the Constitution which thry alone have a right to adopt, but protesting, it the most cm. pbntic terms, against any insinuation that he does-not act thus entirely of his own free will 3i d pWfciirc.--He also stiongly reprobates the interference of ftucign powers in the affairs of his dominions. Mr Scarlett has relinquished his poor law bill for tho present vession. 'Hie Lord Chancellor has been created Viscount Encomb fail of Eldon. Sir Willfhni Scott h n been ciea'ed Bavrtn Slow 1, of StcwOi, •which ! e p nchased fvem the executors Cfycd-worth, • ' 
1 Sept. 13, 1845. THE EXAMINER. compete with the ubsistence in this ncies are now be-iced. Cargo after as become absurd, ainous sacrifice to none to send you diligence all our y's absurd policy Ashing, before he od of crime and convict system can st on our petition ject of Texas and to express an opi. -is to at Oldtown in the county of Kildare, on the 4th inst. Dean Burgh was in the sixty-first year of his age, and was for many vears one of the most gifted and popular preachers of his day. Blair-Athol Highlanders.-It was recently an nounced that her Majesty had graciously signified an intention to present a set of colours to the Highlanders who acted as the royal guard during the sojourn of the Queen and Prince Albert at Blair Castle last year. The ceremony of presentation accordingly took place on the 3rd inst. at Blair, Lord Glenlyon acting as her Majesty's representative on the occasion. Prince George of Cam bridge and the Prince of Saxe Weimar were also present. Arrival of Diplomatists. - His Excellency the Chevalier Bunsen, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Prussia, and his Excel lency Count Reventlow, the Danish Ambassador, arrived in this country last Monday, from Hamburg. Will of the late William Masterman, Esq.-This eminent City banker has died, leaving funded and personal property, independent of his real estates, to the amount of nearly 160,000?. By his will, which he had made some years before his death, he has bequeathed to each of his six children a legacy of 15,000?. and a le gacy to his sister, Mrs Oxley, and his nephew, Henry Oxley. His library, with all the books and contents, he has left to his eldest son, John Masterman, Esq., the member for the City, to whom he has devised his estate at Leyton, where he resided, as well as all other his real estates, freehold or copyhold. The residue of his per sonal estate he leaves to his two sons, John and Thomas, whom he has appointed executors of the will. The late Colonel Townsend.-Letters have been received from Bombay announcing the intention of the officers of the 14th Light Dragoons to erect a monument to the memory of Colonel Townsend, their late com manding officer, in testimony of the respect and regard in which he was held by all ranks in the regiment. Matrimo.nial Disagreement. - No reconciliation has taken place between General Narvaez, the Captain-General of Spain, and his young wife, Mile, de Tascher. After passing the bathing season at Bagneres de Luclion the lady will return to Paris.-French paper. Windsor Castle.-It is her Majesty's intention to abolish the office of State Housekeeper at Windsor Castle by granting compensation to the lady who at present holds the office, and thereby getting rid of the unpopular tax upon the public in the shape of housekeeper's fees for showing the state apartments at Windsor, which will in future be placed under the custody of the Lord Cham berlain. HER MAJESTY'S RETURN FROM GERMANY AND VISIT to the KING OF THE FRENCH. On Wednesday, the 3rd inst., at eight o'clock in the morning, the Queen and Prince Albert started from Gotha upon their homeward route, by way of Fulda and Frank fort. The Duke and Duchess accompanied her Majesty and the Prince for a short way out of Gotha towards the frontier of Weimar, on approaching which they took leave of their Royal visitors, and returned to Frederickstahl. The country after leaving Gotha is no way remarkable, the road bordered by tall poplars, running straight as an h arrow through a flat fertile country. As Eisenach is ap proached the scenery improves. High green banks, here smooth and sloping, there broken and precipitous, rise on either side of the road which occupies the rich valley be tween. Unfinished portions of a railway in progress stretch alongside it. Eisenach is rather a large place, possessing the usual characteristics of German country towns, in its white houses, narrow streets, clumps of trees growing out of the rough paving, and here and there old fountains and elaborately constructed pumps. Here her Majesty breakfasted at the Government house, which stands in the market-place. She was received by the Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar. A guard of honour was in attendance, and the towns-people turned out as well as the soldiers. On a height above Eisenach stands the Castle of Wartsburg, celebrated as the prison of Martin Luther, and where he executed his German translation of the Bible. Her Majesty, accompanied by the Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar, did not fail to visit it. The re mainder of the route lay through a very romantic country to Fulda, where her Majesty and suite arrived at eight o'clock in the evening. The cortege stopped at the prin cipal hotel, the Kurfurst, within which the Grand Duke of Hesse Cassel was waiting in readiness to receive the Royal travellers. A regiment of Hessian soldiers were drawn up opposite the hotel, and a dense crowd of the good people of Fulda supported them. The Queen alighted amid general cheering. The Hessian band con tinued to serenade her for about an hour, and the hotel and the neighbouring houses were pleasingly illuminated in honour of Die Konigen von England. On Thursday, the 4th inst., her Majesty continued her journey through Gelnhausen, where stand the ruins of the palace of the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, and Hanau, a tolerably large place containing about 14,000 inhabitants, and the scene of more than one warlike exploit. It was gallantly defended for nine months during the thirty years' ar, and in later days Napoleon, while in hot retreat from Lcipsic, dashed through the allied troops of the Austrians and Bavarians under its walls. The Queen reached I' rankfort at three o'clock in the afternoon, and descended at the Hotel d'Angleterre, where a body of the City guard as drawn up to receive her Majesty. In the evening, j after dinner, there was a reception or levee, at which the Karl and Countess of Westmoreland, the Burgomaster, and some others of the authorities of Frankfort were pre sented. Prince Metternich and the King of Bavaria dined with the Royal party. lying. They then embarked on board the ' Fairy,' which brought them rapidly down the river towards Cologne. They landed at Deutz, opposite Cologne, at half-past five o clock, and proceeded at once to the Hotel de Bellevue, where they slept. The day was remarkably fine, so that her Majesty had the best opportunity of seeing the scenery of the Rhine. Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence was waiting on board the 'Fairy,' and accompanied her Majesty. The Royal party left Cologne on Saturday morning by a special train, at a few minutes after nine o'clock, and arrived at Antwerp a little before six, where the King and Queen of the Belgians were in waiting to receive her Majesty. In the evening a grand banquet took place in the palace. Her Majesty had originally intended to dine on board the yacht, and drop down the Scheldt that even ing, and a special messenger had been despatched from Cologne the previous evening to make the necessary arrangements. King Leopold, however, countermanded the order, taking upon himself the responsibility of assur ing the officers on board that he would prevail on the Queen to dine at the palace. At half-past seven the town was brilliantly illuminated. Along the streets tall posts were placed at intervals, surmounted by rows of lamps in the form of a pyramid the fronts of most of the houses, and all the public buildings, were also lighted up with rows of coloured lamps. The facade of the Governor's house was one blaze of light, showing off very artisti cally the fresco decorations of the arms of England and Belgium, surrounded by wreaths of flowers and gilded scrolls, which were emblazoned on the spaces between the windows. The Hotel de Ville had the whole of its vast range of windows lighted up, five tiers of lamps run ning from the basement story to the roof, and pouring a flood of light upon the admiring crowds in the Grand place below. The principal gate, leading to the quay, was another object of attraction it was surmounted by a pile of flags of all nations, the arms of England and Bel gium being conspicuously displayed in the centre, stars and scrolls of gas, with the ciphers of the English and Belgian Sovereigns, were exhibited on the river front, the whole surrounded by coloured lamps, and wreaths of laurel and evergreen. The quays, however, presented the most striking and beautiful effect. Along either bank cones of fire elevated on poles extended the whole length of the city, and in the intervals lighted torches and tar barrels cast a wild and lurid light upon the crowds who poured along the quays. The Tete de Flandres, on the opposite side of the river, was also one blaze of light, rows of lamps displaying the various lines of its batteries and entrenchments, the whole of the left bank bristled with tar and pitch barrels, aroundwhich the dark figures of the men employed to feed the flame vvere seen hovering at intervals, their figures casting gigantic shadows across the stream. The English Government steamers, and the other vessels in the river, were also hung with lamps. The General Steam Navigation Company's steam ship ' Soho,' which was moored in the centre of the stream, opposite the Royal yacht, being conspicuous for the variety and brilliancy of its illuminations. At intervals during the night blue and red signal lights were burned, lighting up the river, the quays, and slipping with a strange and dazzling glare. Again, sheaves of rockets went roaring into the air, scattering their brilliant stars over the Scheldt, and on the deep and rapid stream below thousands of boats, from the light skiff to the heavy lum bering coal barge freighted with the worthy citizens of Antwerp, and carrying torches of pine in the bow and stern, floated to and fro, chanting their national airs in full, deep chtrus, and with these were mingled the oaths, imprecations, confusion, and uproar that followed the fre quent collisions of the river craft, the strains of military music from the banks, the hum and Babel of the many thousands who promenaded along the quays, and above all, the solemn peals of the Cathedral bells, and the roar of artillery from the citadel. At nine o'clock the Queen and her suite left the palate and proceeded through the Place de Meer, the Marche aux Souliers, by the Hotel de Ville and the Canal au Beurre to the quays, alongside which the Koyal yacht was moored. The progress of the Royal party was extremely slow, in consequence of the crowded state of the streets, but it afforded the Queen and the Prince an opportunity of viewing the illumina tions and the other demonstrations of respect which were exhibited along their route. On approaching the Cathedral a signal was given, and instantly the whole of the magni ficent tower was illuminated with Bengal lights. The effect was extremely fine, every taper shaft, and pillar, carved ornament, and delicate tracery of this most beau tiful specimen of Gothic architecture being distinctly re vealed, and standing out like pure white marble on the dark sky. A loud burst of applause followed this magni ficent spectacle. A few minutes, and the brilliant pa geant was gone, and the Queen was on board the Royal yacht, which remained alongside the quay during the night. A guard of Belgian soldiers was stationed there to prevent the intrusion of the crowd, and up to a late hour the river continued crowded with boats, torches flared wildly over the heads of the revellers, or were struck upon the gunwale in tune to the music, and showered streams of fire into the hissing flood, the lights and figures reflected and multiplied on the surface of the black and boiling current. At seven o'clock on Sunday morning the yacht got under weigh, a Royal salute was fired from the citadel, the vessels on the river were dressed out with flags, and accompanied by the ' Black Eagle,' ' Lightning,' and ' Porcupine ' Government steamers, the ' Victoria and Albert' proceeded rapidly down the Scheldt. The squad ron reached Flushing at one o'clock, and then hove to. The Earl of Aberdeen and two others of her Majesty's suite went ashore, and made an excursion to Middleburgh, and at half-past four the squadron again got under weigh, and proceeded down the Channel with a fair wind. On Sunday, the 7th inst., her Majesty left the Scheldt, Early on Friday morning, the 5th inst., the Royal party started by special train for Wiesbaden, and thence to --• ~v-v '• Biberich in carriages, where they embarked on board a and on the following morning the Royal yacht anchored Cologne steamer hired for the purpose, which brought off Tveport, an intimation having been previously sent to them down the Rhine to Bingen, where the 'Fairy' was the King of the French that her Majesty would accept the pressing invitation of Louis Philippe to visit him m passant at the Chateau of Eu. At eight o'clock the King and Queen of the French the Princess Adelaide, and all the members of the Royal family, arrived at Trfeport in the grand cliar-a-banc, fol lowed by eight or ten other carriages. The King looked better than he has done for six months. Half an hour afterwards the British steamer, with the Royal standard of England displayed, was within a mile of the shore. King Louis Philippe immediately entered a barge, with a few attendants, and proceeded to the ' Courrier' steamer, in which he approached the 1 Victoria and Albert.' From the ' Courrier' his Majesty descended into a boat fully manned, and pulled to the ' Victoria and Albert.' Some little bustle took place, and then the Royal party de scended into the barge, in which they were rowed towards the shore. In consequence, however, of its being nearly low water the barge could not land, and as the strand was distant from the road, a curious but simple expedient to obviate the difficulty suggested itself to the King. His Majesty ordered the horse to be attached to one of the numerous large bathing machines on the strand, and by aid of it the Queen was enabled to reach the shore, a mode of travelling which very much amused the illustri ous visitor. Planks having been laid down on the beach for the use of the Royal party, the Queen advanced to meet Queen Victoria, whom she greeted most cordially, and embraced several times. Her Majesty also kissed Prince Albert on both cheeks. The Queen of the French then presented the Princess of Salerno and the Sicilian Princesses to her Majesty, after which the whole party got into char-a-bancs, the Queen sitting next to Louis Philippe, and Prince Albert next to the Queen of the French, and proceeded to the Chateau d'Eu, amidst the cordial applause of the assembled crowds. On ihe arrival of the Royal party at the chateau, a splendid dejeuner was served up, which was attended by all the visitors at the chateau. After the dejeuner Louis Philippe took the opportunity of introducing the Queen to the new Vic toria Gallery-a splendid gallery, intended to commemo rate her Majesty's first visit to the Chateau d'Eu, and which is decorated with views of the principal scenes of that occasion, painted by some of the first painters in France. This very handsome compliment to his guest was not thrown away. Her Majesty felt greatly gratified. In the afternoon the Royal party drove into the forest, and in the evening there was a splendid dinner at the chateau, which was attended by all the civil and military authorities of the place, as well as by the guests resident at the chateau. In the evening the Royal party attended a theatrical entertainment in the chateau, the performers of the Opera Comique having been sent for from Paris for the occasion. The performances were the ' Beau Seig neur' and ' Richard Cceur de Lion.' On Tuesday morning the Royal party again drove in the forest in char-a-bancs, and returned to the chateau at half-past one. The Queen and Prince Albert afterward# walked in the ground attached to the palace. Shortly be fore six in the evening her Majesty and the Prince, ac companied by the King and Queen of the French, left the Chateau d'Eu for Treport. A body of troops were sta tioned in the quadrangle of the palace, and a consider able crowd had gathered within its precincts. The vehi cles used were the same as those for the forenoon ride. As they passed out the band played the English national anthem, and the crowd shouted Vive le Roi des Fran-fais et la Reine d'Angletaire. At six o'clock the cortege arrived at the landing-place, the bells of the church ring ing merrily, and a distant battery of cannon firing a salute. The embarkation was speedily accomplished Louis Philippe handed the Queen on board, and the next moment the party was gliding rapidly seaward. Queen Victoria was the only lady on board the barge close to her sat the King of the French, Prince de Joinville, and Prince Albert Lord Aberdeen, M. Guizot, and Lord Liverpool, completed the party. The other members of the suite went in other boats. As the Royal barge shot past there was a tremendous rush along the jetty the steamers in the offing manned their yards, and the sea ward batteries fired double royal salutes. At half-past six o'clock the Royal party were safely on board the ' Vic toria and Albert,' and under weigh for England. The voyage across the Channel was prosperously performed-the weather continuing serene and the sea smooth. On Wednesday afternoon a telegraphic despatch from Portsmouth announced the safe arrival of her Majesty at Osborne house, in the Isle of Wight, after an absence from England of thirty-three days. THE FESTIVITIES AT PAMPELUNA. The preparations that have been made for the reception of the Queen and the Infanta of Spain and their Royal guests, the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale, are all on a scale of great splendour. Bull-fighting forms, of course, the principal feature of the amusements. The following is the programme of the festivities preparing by the loyal Narvarese for their Sovereign and her guests - The Queen our Lady having deigned to select this ca pital in order to receive, in company with her august mother and sister, their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale on the 4th of Septem ber next, and the municipality being desirous of celebrating in the most becoming manner so joyful an event, has pre pared two bull-fights, the combatants at which will be the celebrated Montes and his troop, another o novillos young bulls which will be encountered with lances and darts, and slain by the youthful amateurs of this city various com-parsas and dances, splendid illuminations and fireworks prepared by eminent artists, and various other amusements. All these festivities, which will probably take place on the 4th and following days, await the good pleasure of her Ma jesty their positive fulfilment will be made known to the public at the earliest possible moment. At each of the two bull-fights six bulls will be attacked with long lances and darts, and slain, besides one by the journeyman millers, ac cording to ancient custom. The bulls will be selecte r01 herds natives of thecouniry. During the fight several mils will be attacked with the cloak • capearan by the e pada Montes, so justly celebrated for his skill n ever Y mode
IRELAND, OUH OWk'c DEC ' 81 -11. . LAff l LOHr c 2?v ™® poi,, b, t0 I have learned that T NANT8. 1 ■ tauty of Loutb. for . T 'l u, i 'to® ia in prorre. ™ ei toaddre h?v? 'ioff ot the THB MORNlWe CHROWICLB, MONDAY, JykNUARy 8. pro free in the d Wthe Crn. 01 • landowner and a viewer lu y he drawn 8 a tkm  else flows ®7. 'Itains, however, which were made tiuight down the bill, the water was at once carried off. n reference to the distance at which the dralus were to be °th e ? he begged leave to say, that that was v i r w lnch should be varied under circumstances. Some suoeoiis were more porous than others but he would think , ut dgnteeu to twenty feet distance between each of the drains they would fin J purposes, and almost in i that, in gravelly or sandy b , . u r .i, i, um w so near. As to the depth of the drains, he goes on the prluri-1 would find generally to suit their in any soil he would recommend idy seils, the drains should uot be so pie of looking to gardening _ ot sixteen inches of workable soil and that was the depth Gardeners required a depth that he thought they should have In their laud. Then, the drains should be made so deep as not to be touched by the plough for, if not, and the dralus be made of tiled,then Chapman, to £38,0 H , and so it remained in their the bankrupts' books, until 1833, when William and Charles Ridge took out the £10,000 as residuary legatees, and then restored the debt of Fry and Co. to its original amount of £48,000. Beside these palpable frauds, they paid legacy duty of £9,256 8s. lOd. upon their father's will, and Sir. Commissioner Fane That was a fraud which was the cause ot expense to them, as you say they had nothing to receive under their father's will. Mr. Chambers That might, sir, be so, but it was done with a view to deceive tiieir customers, in order ultimately to benefit themselves. Mr. Charles Ridge had lived for years at the rate of £1,500 per annum, and that, although he must have known the bank to be in a state of hopeless insolvency. From a statement of their affairs put before tbe Court of Review in a former stage of these proceedings, their real deficiencies from 1828 were these in 1829, £51,400 in 1830, £51,900 in 1831, £46,000 in 1832, £47,000 in 1833, £42,000 in 1834, £48,000 in 1835, £52,000 in 1838, £59,000 In 1837, £62,000 in 1838, PTx nnn- in tiWO g70nnn. in tho v nr lfUO gW 100 • depth, and, as regards effect and cheapness, they should always be made narrow at the bottom. The width of the raju at the top should be thirteen inches, and at the bottom about four inches and in that width, fie knew by experience, there was plenty ot room tor a man to use a spade and work. In filling the arains fie would recommend stones, when they could be had, tor they were more effective than tiles. In the construc tion ot the drains, care should be taken not to put in large etonee. Stones about the size of those used on the roads were the proper kind and, iu almost all cases, in that part ot the country, as many could be collected off the fields as would be required hear, hear . After the stones have been put in, there was another important matter to attend to, namely, the covering, and for that purpose he would recommend a sod. If the drain were executed as he recommended, he would venture to say that it would lust for filty years. The sod should be cut thin, and so large that when put on it would go up a little on each side. Then the one should overlap the other, so that there would be no opening to allow the soil to run in. Mr. smith, after some further obeervations on draining, Buid their fiat, hole o been reduced t, many of whom had lost tbe savings of the f a hard-worked life, and had subsequently to insolvency and beggary. It was quite clear that the bankrupts had been traders using every artifice to deceive the world, and he Mr. Chambers Uy at a loss to know upon what possible grounds they conld now come before the court and ask tor their certificate, Mr. Commissioner Fane I shall certainly find it neces sary to read the examination, and examine the accounts you hove referred to, before I can give my judgment iu this matter. Mr. Missing, for the bankrupts, strongly denied the allegations made against them. The errors they committed in keeping their accounts were entirely Errors of judgment, and out of 1,100 creditors, who were said to have proved against their estate, not one of them was now here to op pose the grant of the bankrupts' certificate. No conceal ment had been charged against them. No intentional fraud could be established, or was sought to be established ugaiust them they bad made a full disclosure of the real state of their affairs. The bad debts referred to as having been now due. He had gone to Hr. Cobbdd's solicitor, Mr. Wilkinson, and also to Mr. Goldsmidt, to ask for the job of distraining In both of Allford's places of business. He did not know that he should have gene if Allford had not sent him. There was a horse in tbe stables when he distrained upon Allford. He could not account for striking out the horse and cart, and putting down one set of harness instead of two in the list of articles distrained upon. Cross-examined by Mr. Cooke Allford told him that he had not paid his rent, and he thought he might as well ap ply for business. Goldsmidt was a wholesale warehouse man in Friday-street, of immense wealth. William Wyles, an upholster, and son-in-law of the in solvent, said that, as he was not in a condition to pay the £26 bills to which he had put his name, he would give up the lease for the benefit of the creditors. The witness handed the lease into court. Mr. Woodroffe commented upon the difficulty of fully accounting for the disappearance of the insolvent's pro perty. His debts in March last were £200 or £300 less than now, and the creditors had got but little out of the estate. Mr. Cooke 6aid, that from the time he attempted a com position with his creditors, the insolvent's affairs became worse and worse. For fourteen days at a time he had been kDown to take no more in bis business than 14s. Nothing but failure could be the result ot the competition to which he had been exposed. No evidence had been given of the wilful concealment of any ot his property. His wholo course of late had been a struggle with difficulties which came upon him in japid succession. He had now not penny in the world in his possession.. He had been beaten down by the force of circumstances over which he had no control. The learned Chief Commissioner adjourned the case for fortnight, to give time for a farther and more rigid inquiry as to the insolvent's property. The insolvent, in consequence of the illness of his wile, was admitted to bail. The court rose at a late hour. POLICE NTELLIGBNCE-Satvrvay. BOW-STREET. , Base Roubkby.- W. Jones was brought up for final examination, charged with stealing two silver watches and other articles, the property of Edward Barrier. The prosecutor stated that he was a watchmaker and jeweller, and resided in Wych-strset, Drury-lane. He had known the prisoner for a considerable time, from his having oocupled apartments in the upper part of his house. Wit ness reposed the greatest confidence in him. in consequence of his very regular habits, and had frequently entrusted him with the charge of his shop during his temporary absence. On the 0th of December witnese hod occasion to leave home for a short time, aud he left the prisoner, as before, in charge of the shop, hut on his return he was astonished to find that the prisoner had absconded,- leaving the shop altogether unprotected,and had taken with him two watches and a variety of other articles, tho property of witness. Hs immediately went to the nearest station-house and gave in formation of the robbery. , . Two pawnbrokers' shopmen were called, who proved tnat the prosecutor's watches had been pledged at their em ployers' shops by the prisoner within a few days after the robbery was committed. Pooock, an offieer, stated that, having received informa tion of the robbery, he made inquiries alter the prisoner, and at length succeeded in taking him into custody at a pub lic-house iu the Blackfiriars-road. The prisoner was next charged with stealing a waist coat, the property of a pot-boy at a public-house ln Oxford-He declined saying anything in his defence, and was committed for trial on both charges. MANSION-HOUSE. Attempt to Rob a Lady.-A well-dressed young fellow, named William Melbourne, was brought before the Lord Mayor, charged with having attempted to rob a lady. Mr. Waddington, of No. 119, London-wall, stated that he saw the prisoner, who was accompanied by another per son, thrust his hand into the pocket of a lady, who was nassing along the street, aDd immediately collared him 'he lady was terrified, aud witness held the prisoner last, having been in the habit of taking such characters, as he often had large amounts about him. , , The prisoner, upon being asked who he was, said he had been a silversmith about six months ago, but he could uot exactly tell what he was at the present moment. The Lord Mayor requested to be informed who the pri Boner's father was and where he lived ?-The prisoner re plied that he really conld not gratify fils lordship s cu riosity. The Lord Mayor Is there any one here who can say any thing about you ?-The prisoner Not that I know ot, with the exception of the officer a laugh . Policeman No. 32 here stepped forward and said lie had known the young man as connected with a gang of thieves who infested the neighbourhood of tlie banking-houses, that some of the prisoner's former companions had been transported, and tnat he had been watched by the police on Monday last about the Bank lor five hours, in company of five most notorious robbers. The Lord Mayor This is bad testimony to yourcharacter, Mr. Melbourne.-The prisoner Nobody can say that I ever was in oustody. Gooch, the turnkey of the Compter My lord, he has been in custody in the name of Jenkins, and the gaoler of Bridewell has been to see him, and- knows him well as an old acquaintance. , _ The prisoner Well, what is the extent of my offence The Lord Mayor You know I can send you as a rogue and a vagabond, and you must go for two months. The prisoner Very well, nere goes laughter The prisoner was then committed to the House of Cor rection for the time stated by his lordship. Tub Honeymoon.-A tailor in a dirty shirt and without coat or waistcoat, whose name was stated to be William Raison, was charged by bis landlord, Michael Denny, a Corkman, in the same line ot business, with having cleared away the blankets of his .well-iurnished room, and deposited them iu the room of his uncle, a neigh bouring pawnbroker, for the small considsration ot the loan of three shillings. . Mr. Denny, in the genuine tone and with the unaffected that he would proceed to the subject of subsoil ploughing. P luc l ,0 'he credit of profit, were not at the time supposed After the land had been thorough drained, fissures and '® be bad, as all the world believed that Fry and Chapman cracks would be found in the subsoil and, therefore, it was woul 1 have paid at least 16s. or 17s. in the pound-and of importance that that subsoil should be mechanically U P 0U h e and a variety of other grounda.he respectfully stirred up. That might be done with the subsoil plough, submitted that the babkrnpts were entitled to their certf-with the pick, or with the spade. The subsoil plough was drawn with from six, and sometimes with as many as eight horses but it should never be used for a year, aDd in some lauds two years, after the land had been drained. He would recommend the ploughing to be across the drains tor, iu doing so, they would not only open a better channel for the carrying off of the water, but they would save labour fur it was much easier to plougb across a hill than up and down bear, hear, hear . The course to be taken, in using the subsoil plougb, was, first, to throw out a large open furrow of the active soil, with the common plough then the subsoil plough should follow, and thoroughly break up the subsoil. It would be important to take on as much as possible of the active soil with the common plough, and thereby leave ns little us tboy could for the subsoil plough to do for workiug with it was severe on both men and horses. When the subsoil was thoroughly broken up, the next furrow of the active soil should be thrown over the last opened furrow of tlie subsoil, and so on, until the work was ended. There was another advantage in the subsoil plough-it threw up any stones which came in its way. It was provided with a spur, for the purpose and another, and greater advantage, to be derived from using that plough, was, that they could take up the subsoil, bv degrees, and mix it with the active soil. Bringing the subsoil to the snrface all at once would produce great sterility hear, bear . Mr. Smith concludi d by saying he was ready to answer any questions that might be put to him. Mr. W. Blacker would inquire, for the benefit of tlie farmers, whether the drains shonld uot be made perfectly straight.' He had seen many iu the country which w re very crooked. Mr. Smith The drains should he perfectly straight for if you look at a Berpentiue river you wilffind its couise much larger than if it ran iu a direct line. They should id ficate. Mr. Commissioner Fane said that he was at present un prepared to give any judgment, but would read through the proceedings, and give bis adjudication on a future day. INSOLVENT DEBTORS' COURT- Dec, 31. .IN RB EDWARD ALLFQRD. , Edward Allford was opposed by Mr. Woodroffe, for Messrs. Hartills, wholesale ironmongers. No. 89, West Smith field. He was supported by Mr. Cooke. This insolvent was a furniture-broker aud bedstead-manuiacturer, in Westminster-hridge-road. He was a bankrupt in 1832, aud discharged by the Insolvent Court in 1835. His liabilities under his present insolvency amounted to £800. The good debts due to him amounted to £ 9s. The ground of the opposition was making away with bis property... ,. He was examined by Mr. Woodroffe, at considerable length, as to the disposal of his property. He had laid out about £400 ou his premises und rent und taxes bad run away with the rest. He had a lease ot tho house in Westmiu6ter-brldge-road, but had parted with it about six mpnths ago to a Mr. Wyles, because he lent his name to four bills of £20 each, which, becoming- due, he by that means got renewed. He had put tbe creditors for the £20 bills in the schedule. He had no objection to have tbe lease filed, provided Wyles would give it up. He had agreed at a meetiug of bis creditors, in March last, at Peele'i Coffee-house, to pay £20 a fortnight into the hands of Mr, Bartholomew, who, with another gentleman, was appointed to receive it, lor distribution amongst the creditors. He bad juaii uui tic came to uic tv -j gave him wbat he axed for, but I let hi ml and his wile a room, and I not only let 'em a room, but I lent him the money to marry his wile wid laughter . Well, sure enough they got married, and borne be lugs her to my decent resjjectable place and as I must tell the truth, upon my sowl they took liberties with my bed in a most shame ful manner laughter . The Lord Mayor You mean they stripped the bed of tbe bed clothes t-Complainant Your lordship talks of it as if you were present and seen all that happened. Yes, they did take every stitch, and the devil a morsel of bed was to be seen in the place. The Lord Mayor And how long have they been married .'-The Complainant Two months, your honour and to make him comfortable I gave him a job that I had to do myself, but he was too lazy to do it, and Dothing could get him out of his bed a laugh . Mr. Hobler What, uot at the snd of two months ?-The Complainant No, faith. A body might tbinkjthat after the first month he might rise to attend to business, but the devil a bit oi him could be got up by hook or by crook until the morning he tnck my blankets to bis uncle, and then both him and her got up early enough to strip the whole building laughter . Mayor Is he a countryman of yours Bi The Lord be made straight, because there is less labour and less ex pense in doing so. Mr. Bi.ackbr inquired whether draining the laud in a dry season would not make it too dry. Mr. Smith said that was a very general opinion, but it was an erroneous one draining in dry weather had the contrary effect It pulverised the earth and made it spongy, so that it retained more water in the pores of it than it would under other circumstances. Several other questions were put, and answered very satisfactorily by Mr. Smith. A vote of tnauks was passed by acclamation to Mr. Smith. , . Mr, Smith having returned thanks in suitable terms, the meeting separated. Mr. Smith delivered a lecture on draining and subsoiliug in Glasslough. the seat of Mr. Leslie, on Tuesday. He lectured ln Monaghan, also, on Thursday. On each occa-lion there was a large attendance ef the landed proprietors and intelligent farmers and an anxiety not to lose a ayl-abie that fell from Mr. Smith was visible in almost every vmn tenancy. --POOR LAWS-PROPOSED PUBLIC MEETING. A requisition, addressed to the mayor, is in course of eig-nature calling upon his worship to convene a meeting of the inhabitants ot this borough, for the purpose of taking into consideration the propriety of calling on tho several boards of guardians and rate payers of the city and oouuty of Cork to fix a day previously to the 22d ot January for koldimr a general meeting of the rate payers of the city and Aountrof Cork in reference to the abuses of the present poor-law.-Southern ReforUr. Mr. O'Connell is to at tend this jjloRj ~aN 1 TENANT. TO THE BDITOR OP THB DUBLIN BVKNINO POST. T Ardee. 29th December. qj r _1 j, eeg tete in this neighbourhood of one of the wealthiest nrnurietora. a young man who has hitherto stood high in public opinion, Mr Thomas Fortescue, of Ravensdale Park, fats a member for the county, was yesterday invaded by a driver and a host of bailiffs one of whom was put in charge of each house and haggard, with two exceptions, on Tlifgraator number do not owe a farthing of the rent of 1941 • they are, without exception, industrious honest Dle paying very high reuts-as high as 50s. per Irish iZ 'tEiV Je without leases such was the will of the late Lord Claremont, from whom the property is inherited , H vet compelled to build houses ol two stories, without other aid fihan slates if they purchase the Umber fitted for such roofing, their scanty capital has been expended on those houses and premises their haggards are full of corn even the apprehension ol loss from Indulgence cannot h r Forteeoue is in the Aunty of Kilkenny, psrtaklng mf the hospitality, and witnessing the kindness, the annual xlr-e-u indnees, of his lady's family to their tenantry. tenants here exclaim he knows nothing of what is ooo,. bis absence, or of their sufferings. It is hoped this notice may attract his attention. A Man op Lovih. Mendicity.-The Lord Mayor.-The Right Hon. the Zord Mayor, with his usual liberality, has ordered the S word bearer Mr. Arkins , and the high constable Mr. linnott , to provide a plentiful dinner of beef, bread, ice,, to the tomato of the Mendicity on New Year's-daJ to-morrow . Tho order ha been given in consequence of the Lord Mayor's intention not being carried out on Chrlst-mas-day, the Lord-Lieutenant having sent them a dinner on that occasion. _____________ Forpniturb op a Hailway.- On Wednesda the 21st iiut., Sir Henry Hunloke, Bart., of Wingerwort' Hall proceeded, along with Mr. Brown and other wit-nessee, to take pos I -i''ii of the branch line of raili sd leading from llopton bridge to Tiuih-i lane kuowo he Duke's line , which the Ninth Midltjnd Com Sny ha for feited to him under certain arrangement .-Dirbjehtre Courior. p id three instalments to Mr. Bartholomew. He could not tell whether the money bad been paid to the creditors, distress had been put in by his landlord for rent, which be paid out by selling his horse and cart and bor rowing money from other people. A distress for rent had also been put into his other place oi business in Stafford-row, Fimlico. Tbe stock in trade and the goods, after they were condemned, were suffered to remain on the premises, in Westmioster-bridge-road, ns it was thought that more money could be obtained by selling them by retail than at the auction-rooms. Tne purchase-money of goods sold after the distress was put in went to the landlord. Mr. Woodroffe In your schedule you say that you paid Mr. Goldsmidt, the landlord of the premises in Stafford-place, £25 within a fortnight of his distraining was that so '-Insolvent I am satisfied he had nothing so recently as that. . I paid £10, but that was six mouths before the distress was put in. The schedule was admitted to be in some ather particulars incorrect. The insolvent said he had been loeing for years, from opposition in business, aud other cAfises. Cross-examined by Mr. Cooke Seven or eight of his creditors attended the meeting at Peek's Coffee-house. He had said that he could pty them twenty shillings in the pound, if they gave him time to recover nimself. Notwith standing tbe agreement that he was to pay £20 a fortnight, some of tbe creditors sued him a short time afterwards. He was compelled to make forced sales to pay these de mands, and also to fulfil his engagement to pay the credi tors £20 a fortnight. The goods were taken to Bullock's and Foster's, ana the sacrifice was immense. His wife had b aD ill a long time, and he had heavy doctor's bills to pay. A large opposition shop was opened close to him, and they sold articles for 15s. which he could not get under 22s. or 25e. That firm had lately failed for £10,000. Tbe distress was put in for £86 2s. 6d., a year's rent. George Bartholomew, a carpet-manuiacturer in Fins-bury-pavement, was then examined. He was a creditor of the insolvent for £812s. Od. When the meeting of credi tors took place he was a creditor to the amount of £50 7s. Id. Witness and Mr. Hartills were appointed to receive £20 a fortnight for the creditors. He had received £20 on the 20th of April last, ou account of that agreement. He had received £6218s.8d. in all. The £2 18s. 8d was for goods subsequently supplied to the insolvent. He received the money in six payments He received £40 ou account of his original debt. When the insolvent paid him the instalments he said he would bs a great fool if be did not keep it for himself. He did not add he should be a great rogue if he did so. Such an idea might have occurred to his mind a laugh . He dis tributed £11 7s. Od. in all amongst the creditors. He was not prepared to pay more, because he intended to appro priate it to the payment of his own debt. He could not name the time when the insolvent said he would be a fool if he did not keep the money himtolf. The insolvent did not say it to him. Hi young man told him that hs said so. He did not appropriate all the first £20 to himself, became he thought the insolvent intended to keep up the payments. He neVer spoke to the creditors as to what he should do with the money. He had settled that in his own mind. Ha did not divide the money amongst the other creditors, as nothing could.be gained by it a laugh . The money was not then in his possession. He would not pay It into court, because be thought he ought to pay himself first. Mr. Cooke Have you ever been a trustee before, and acted in the same way ?-Witness It might be so a laugh, ln wMch the witness joined , Mr. Cooke said it was a shocking announcement -r The learned Chief Commissioner said it was a lamentable exhibition. The spectator had indeed leaghod, but it waa a kind of laugh us much as to say what a very consummate ' ' ' -h from the witness . The y said that he ought to be had made. More unblush ing dishonesty he never saw in hi life. F Thomas lleaford, broker, of No. 80, Bridge-road.Lam-bsfh. was examined as to tlie value of the insolvents pro perty when tie lendkrd. Mi -Cobbold, put in the distress, i riie total condemnation was £58. If it had been taken to n sale room it WtiuM not have produced £25 but the land lord had lost by holding over,as another qaarter's rent was 1 Mayoi Complainant No, he says he is a for all that I don't wish to hurt him. But you see, my a - -The Sirmingham man, but lord, in my country we don't think it kind to rob a man that giveB another employment and lodging, and a wife in the bargain great laughterj. The Lord Mayor No it is not kind. The Complainant I must tell the truth, your honour he is a lazy and good-for-nothing fellow as ever crossed a board, Dut if he'll promise to work it out, I'll forgive him, and take him in again. The defendant said he was willing enough to work it out, hut he could not prevail upon his wife to let him get up in proper time in the morning laughter . And when he ar gufied with her, she said the honeymoon always lasted ano ther mouth longer, and she did not s e why they should be the first to break tbe rule. The Complainant Sure I didn't want yon to do so. But you might have earned 12s. a week at any rate, and had plenty of tun great laughter . The Lord Mayor to the complainant Well, you cer tainly are a good-natured fellow, and I think you may try this man once more. Let him pay you so much a week by working for you, and if he persists In lying in bed and neglectiug his business, bring him before me, and I'll cure him of his honeymoon tricks by sending him to prison where he shall have no inducement to lie in bed longer than nature requires laughter . Hie lordship then gave the complainant hall-a-crown to commence the new year with and received many blessings and thanks in return for his kindness from the poor ill-treated tailor. Mr. Robert Mercer, a man of property, wae put to the bar, charged with having arrived at such a Btate of intoxi cation on the preceding night as to be nnable to utter a Mias Newell Come, oome, Sir Chapman, I've got yon in a corner, and you must answer me. Do you believe in a God? • .I .... Alderman Upon my word, you must not-Miss Newell Oh, well, I suppose you do believe well, that's one point gained, however. Here the court was an irrepressible scene of laughter . Well, as I told you some twenty-four years ago, when we were both much younger, that I had a divine revelation from heaven, which informed me I should sit upon the throne of this kingdom. What was the consequence ? They locked me up In St. Luke's. However, I got out, nnd again I paid you a visit when yuu were lord mayor, at the Mansien-boose, some time ago. Alderman Yes, I remember it, Miss. Miss Newell ln a voice oi triumph Oh I you do remem ber it. Well, then, from that hour to this I have pursued the same steady line of conduct laughter , and my undy ing oouvlction is striking her hand with so much force upon the table that Mr. Scholefield was raised up from his nap , that 1 shall wear tbe crown of England, have a large house, and keep a great number oi servants. Alderman Now, pray madam, come to a conclusion, for you see tlie five miuntes have just expired. Miss Newell looking at the clock and again at her watch Not so fast, sir I know what o'clock it is roars besides, 1 say that the Queen of this counUry sets a had ex ample to her subjects. Alderman I cannot hear this. You must not be allowed to talk thus. I won't listen. Miss Newell But yon must, and I ask again, why the Queen, a lady occupying a station the highest in the land, does not suckle her owu child ? Only place me in such a situation, Sir Chapman, and I'll let the world see an ex ample ol a greatlady nurturingherown babe. The gravity of tlie court was quite overcome by this speech, aud justice fairly laughed outright. Alderman Miss Newell, you have had more than five minutes allowed you, and I must beg of yon to retire. Do not compel me to use force. Miss Newell Well, I've done for the present. I rather like you, Sir Chapman, and as it's the last day of the old year I was determined to eay as much as I could, and I think I've opened some of your eyes, so give us your hand at par tin? The alderman most good humouredly extended bis hand, at the request of the lady, who, after shaking it most warmly, dropped a graceful curtsey to the alderman, ex claiming, Pardon me, Sir Chapman, if I take leave of you in the words of a good old song- Adieu, thou dreary pile' '' loud laughter, during which the candidate for the Crown withdrew!. M A RLBOROUGH -STREET. Misconduct op a Fireman.-James Ewart, one of the London Fire Brigade, waa charged with having as saulted Humphrey Nathan, ofStar-court, Soho. It appeared that thecomplainant's wife superintended a bath in Star-court, where ladies of the Jewish persuasion attended for the purpose of performing ablutions at pre scribed periods. . , _ The defendant one day last week came to the house, and said an alarm ot fire had been given at the brigade station, and he desired to be let In. The daughter of the complainant answered him to the effect that no fire was in the house, and that there was no need for the attend ance of the firemen. The defendant, however, pushed her on one side, and tried to force open the street door, which was shut but not being able to effect this, he opened the window, and made his way into the parlour. The defendant then went np stairs, and on encountering the complainaut, who had been roused at hearing the noise made by the de fendant, he pushed him against the wall, and proceeded to examine the house to see if any fire was about. The exa mination was fruitless, as no fire could be discovered. The complainant said the push was sufficiently violent to send him reeling against the wall. The defendant said an alarm was given that a tire was in one ot the chimneys in tbe defendant's house. He went to the place, and on being refused admittance hs got in at the window, and looked over the house, On going to the place where the copper was placed for heating the bath, he saw enough to induce him to believe that the chimney had been on tire. He denied having assaulted any one, and what he had done was solely with the view of preventing danger, in case the house had been on fire. The complainant denied that the upper chimney had been on fire. Mr. Hardwick said no fireman was justified under anV pretence in forcing his way into a house. The defendant's conduct was without exense, and therefore he should impose a fine of 20s, and costs. The inspector said he believed the Fire Brigade generally were aware that they were not permitted to force an entrance into a house against the leave of the owner. Air. Hardwick said, as the firemen had obtained sum monses for the usual reward, upon tho allegation that the chimney had been on fire, he certainly should not give any reward under such circumstances, and he should there fore advise the withdrawal. CLERKENWELL. A girl,seventeen years of age, named Eliza Riley,charged her mistress, a female named Ceos, a tambour-worker, in Vincent-terrace, Islington, with assaulting her, by cutting her hair off. The complainant said she was apprenticed by St. Giles's S arish to the defendant nearly six years ago, and had been, uring that time, often ill-used by Mrs. Cox. On Wed nesday last the latter grumbled at her for not doing more work, and because she answered that she could do no more, her mistress suddenly came behind her, and cat off the hair at the back of her head. She then took off her bonnet and exposed where It had been hacked about. Mr. Combe, the magistrate, said he thought her mistress had done no harm whatever, that he could see nothing to find fault with, that if it was hacked her mistrees could get a barber to cut it even, and that if the complainant did not o home and mind what her mistress said, she wonld be rougbt up here and then 6ent to the House of Correction, where her hair would be crapped short enough, Tho poor parish apprentice was thon taken away, crying very much. She seemed to feel very sorely the loss of her hair, aud might have felt herself degraded by being cropped-at least, if she did not, thousands of girls at her age would have done eo. Bioamy.-A rather respectable-looking middle-aged man, named Thomas William Mead Shndwell, foreman in a corn chandlery stabllshment, In Church-street, Isling ton, was charged with bigamy. Mr. Flower appeared for thi dart defended the prisoner, It Is much to be regretted that the magistrate have not the power to oommit to prison, instead of Infliotlng a fine, as in such a case as the present the pecuniary penalty is ut terly inadequate to the offence. the prosecution, and Mr. Stod-Mr. Flower stated that on the 10th of May, 1832, tbe pri soner was married in the parieb church of Hackney to Mies Sarah Brentford, hie lawful wife, with whom he lived two or three years, and then deserted tier, aqd that oil tbe 21st of January, 1838, he married Caroline Sparrowhawk Smith, Sarah 8hadwell being etili living. The second marriage took place in Trinity Church, Cambridge. Mr. Flower then handed in the certificates of both marriages, but stated that in consequence of his being unable to obtain the attendance of the second wife on that occasion, he would i his worship for a remand. r. Combe said he had as yet but documents, and a statement. He should hear some evidence. Mr. Flower then produced police constable Whikcber, of the detective force, who deposed to having arrested the pri soner on the previous night in Church-street, Islington. Mr. Justins Mr. Flower's clerk deposed that he ques tioned the prisoner, on his arrest, the previous evening, as to whether or not he had been twice married and the pri soner admitted he had. Some other witnesses were examined, particularly the brother-in-law of the first wife, who deposed to the first marriage, and to having seen both marriages in the Mar riage Record Book, in Somerset-house. Mr. Combe said he believed it was not the original Re cord-book that was kept there but a copy. The witness said he thought eo. Mr. Combe then expressed his readiness 1 to remand the prisoner. Mr. Stoddart hoped his worship wonld accept of bail for hie client, who was a man of excellent character, and gen teelly connected, and could procure it of a most satisfactory nature. Mr. Combe said he considered the ense of too serious a character, and too clearly eetablished, to admit of bail being received.-He was then locked up, SPORTING INTELLIGENCE. BETTING AT MANCHESTER-FaioAY. DERBY. 6 te 1 agit Scott's lot I 40 to 1 sgst Newcourt 8 to 1 - A British Yeomsn SO to 1 - Oiygen colt Uken 1 1000 to 16 - Cothcntone 23 to 1 - Aristides taken 1 1000 to IS - Evertoa 40 to I - Progress colt 1000 to IS Jemal COURSING. Belmont Meeting.-The eup was won by Mr. Bremer's Bseiwlng, betting in the deciding course Mr. Rtcktten'e ThlngsbUJ. Bingham Meeting, Dec. 23.-The Chesterfield Stskeewere won by Mr. ChetUe's Lath, snd tb second class sf the Chesterfield Stakes by Mr. Taylor's Tewney. HUNTING APPOINTMENTS. Her Majesty's atagbeuudt meet eo Wednesday tt Wloktteld Church, and on Friday at Irer HfStb, at eleren. Lord Gifford's hounds meet on Wednesday at Res ly Token, snd on Saturday at ColeabILl, at half-past ten. The Vine hounds meet on Thunday stMalshanger House, and in Saturday at Klngsclere, at eleren. Sir W. M. Ridley's hounds meet on Wednesday at Cllitop, on Friday at Gotforlh, nnd on Sstuiday at Pleaty Checks, tt half-put ten. Mr. Watson's hounds meet on Friday at Sturtoa Grange, at ten. The Prudhoe and Derwent hounds meat to-morrow at Coalburn, and on Friday at Glbitde. , The Haydoa hounds meet on Wednesday at Coweyslke, and c n Saturday at Common Heuse, at nine. The Slaley hounds meet on Wednesday at Fotherley Gill, andea Saturday at Slaley, at nine. The Wheatland hounds meet to-morrow at Kemptou, at nine. The Torquay harriers meet to-morrow at Scots Bridge,, and on Friday at Stoke Common. Hie Puckeridge hounds meet on Wednesday at Elsenham,and on Saturday at Great Munden, at half-past ten. Mr. JBraud's hounds m et on Wednesday at Klmpton Mill, and on Friday at Gaddesdeo, at half past ten. The Norfolk hounds mest to morrow at East Basham, on Thurs day at Chapel Mill, Gresisnbail, and on Saturday at Saham Wocd, at half pnst ten. The Surrey Union hounds meet on Wednesday at Jayts, and on Saturday at Uatchlanns, at half-past ten. The Eant Sussex hounds meet on Thursday at the Bat and Ball, and on Saturday at Southeaie, at a quarter to feleven. The Whitby harrier meet en Wednesday at Pickering, and cm Friday at Normaoby Hill. 1 he York and Alnsty hounds meet to morrow at the Red House, on Thursday at Rlbstoa Park, and on Saturday! rimiton Bar, at half past ten. _ , _ The F.R.H. meet to-morrow at Constantine Cross, and on Thurs day at Benllhon, at ten. Baron Rothschild's stag-hounds meet on Thursday at tbe Kennel, at eleren. _ The Warwickshire Hounds meet to-morrow at Weston House, on Thursday at Wellesbourne, and on Saturday at Upton House, at bsif pa t ten. The Quorn Hounds meet to morrow at Bardon Hall, on Thursday at Thorpe Satchrlll®, and on Friday at Bunny, at a quarter to eleren. The Badswerth hounds meet to-morrow at Wentbridge, on Thurs day at Hickleton Hall, and on Saturday at Shafton Two Gates, at half-past ten. Mr. Foljambe's hounds meet on Wednesday at Rosshigton Bridge, on Friday at Headon Chump, and on Saturday at Scrooby Bar, at half-past ten. The Ryfford hounds meet on Thursday at Hockerton Bar. Lord Yarborough's hounds meet on Wednesday at Swallow Vil lage, and on Friday at Usselby House, at eleven. The Sherwood harriers meet to morrow at Mansfield Race Course, and ou Friday at the Second Milestone en tbe Nottingham Road, at eleven. ,Mr. A. Smith's hounds meet to-morrow at Mannlnford, on Wed nesday at Clarendon Park, on Thursday at Tangley, and oh Friday at Netheravon, at eleven. The Essex Union hounds meet to-morrow at Hozelelgh Hal , and on Saturday at Felix Hall. The Ttckham hounds meet on Thursday at Lynited Street, and on Saturday at Long Beach, at half past ten. Mr. Atty's houuds meet to-morrow at Overton Bridge, on Thurs day at Whlttiagton, and on Saturday at Marchwlel, at half-past ten. Mr. Russell's hounds meet on Wednesday at Brancepetb, and cn Friday at Plawsworth Bar, at eleven, Mr, Robertson's hounds meet to-mgrrow at Etall, and on Friday at Ross Links, at half past ten. Mr. Farquharson's hounds meet to-morrow at 8t. Giles's, aud on Thursday at Melcomb Park. Mr. Drax'a hounds meet on Wednesday at Trent Barrow. M. H. meet to-morrow at Doles Ash, and on Friday at the second milestone on ths Upper Sherborne Road from Dorchester. Mr, Dt ane's harriers meet to morrow at Hunter's Lodge. Sir R. Button's hounds meet to-morrow at Cottesmore, on Wed nesday at the Bull, Witham Common, on Thursday at Burley on the Hill, on Friday at Castle Bytharo, and on Saturday at Loddington Hall,at eleven. The Atherstono hounds meet on Wednesday at Seal Wood, on Thursday at Kingsbury Wood, and on Saturday at Church Over. Sir F. Goodriche'a hounds meet on Wednesday at West Haddon, on Friday at Badby Wood, and on Saturday atDunston, at a quarter to eleven. Mujor General Wyudham's hounds meet on Wednesday at Rowner Mill, on Friday at Lea Farm, and on Saturday at Shllllnglee Park. The Horsham hounds meet on Thursday at Rowhooke, and on Saturday at Lovell Heath. Mr. Drake's hounds meet on Tuesday at Croughton Vlllsge, and on Saturday at Rycotc Kennel, at half-past ten. Mr. Mustert's hounds meet to-morrow at Heneage Arms, Halnton, ou Thursday at Mareham village, and on Friday at the Fourth Mile stone on the Hagworthinghara-road, at eleven. The Hurworth hounds meet to-morrow at Cotcllffe Wood, and on Saturday at Hurwoitb. Linutenant.Colonel Hildyatd's barriers meet on Thursday at Swainby Bridge. The Wynyard hounds meet on Thursday at the Red Lion, on the Sunderland road, at half-past ten. The Hulderness hounds meet to-morrow at Bishop Burton, on Thursday at Wood Hail, and on Friday at Kilnwlck Percy. The Cambridgeshire hounds meet on Friday at Morden Heath, at half-past ten. The Oakley hounds meet to-morrow at Rise!ey,on Thursday at the London entrance to Woburn Park, and on Saturday at Hurwlck, at •Seven. The Wldtecrois harriers meet to morrow at Betloe Line, and on Saturday at Puttingham. The Berkshire houuds meet on Wednesday at Hendred, and on Friday at Curbridge, at half-past ten. Lord Redesdale's hounds meet on Wednesday at Burton Gate, on Friday at New Barn, and on Saturday at 8pllsbury. Mr. W. S. Lowndes's hounds meet to-morrow at Halton, and on Friday at Denbigh Hall. The Boro ugh bridge harriers meet to-morrow at Aldbrough, and on Friday at Blows Hall. The Eddlethorpe hounds meet on Wednesday at half way between Stamford Bridge and Gate Hemsley, and on Friday at Scampton Bridge, at half past ten. The Sinoington hounds meet to-morrow at Sinnlngton, and on Friday at Nawtqp, at ten, Th? Bedsle hounds meet on Wednesday at Watless Village, and on Friday at Middleton Tyas, at hulf-past ten. -'skipping intelligence. Lonoon, D c. 31.-Wind this d y .1 oon .W ft sh bmz. nd cloudy. Seven p.m. W.8.W., light alts And hssy. Dial, D c. 30.-Wind SAV. to W.S.W.-Arrlved the Mery end Anne frara Velpereleo, Ledy Hemy from Monte Video, Cemeroeii from Bcrblce 'be Stratbeden and Gawlla for Sydney, and Euphrates for Calcutta. Portsmouth. Dec. 30.-Wlod W.N.W., ttron, end equelly.-Arrived the Weter Lily from London for Jemelce. Touav, D c. 29.-Arrtred the CecUle Louie, from Hemburg for Velp.reieo, ead John Oldh.m from London for J.melce-Dartmouth, Dsc. 29.-Arrived the Ecllpee 'ram Hemburg for fauJouth. Die.30.-Wind W fre.h hre ee.-Arrl ed the Jo-hannes from Coqulmbo, left August 8 bound to Swansea lost her bulwark., Ike. Xevter from Hemburg for Vere Crui. Bristol, Drc. 30.-Arrived the Eleenorirom Demerere. Dial. Dhc. 29,-Arrlved the Endymlon from Quebec, Venteoee from Hull for Boetoo, George Delnls from ditto for St. Thomee •. TheFeUi, front Finland to Glhtelter, bee been lowed Into Renugete oreSouthwolo!'Dac. 29,-Arrlved the St. John from Mire-whitht, Dhc. 7.-The Hoetlllne, of Guernsey, bee put In here with loee of boweprlt, cutwater, c.. end foremast eprung, having been in contact with the brig Pearl yetterday afternoon . Coir. Dhc. 2S.-Arrived the Robert Watt from Virginia, with lou of boat , bulwarks, Ac. and Olloda from St. John's, New Bruns-wick Clydm, Dec. 28 -Arrived the Blomedon from Newfoundland. New Ross, Dkc. 26.-Arrived the Juliet from Newfoundland. Bridlivoto.v, Dig. 3d.-The Yarrow, whilst at anchor batwwn Duagenessand the Spurn, waa run Into by a sloop aod.rectlwd con-BuaoiWAm Dac. 29.-'The Alice Havllaod was run luto off the Holm s on the 27th Instant, and cut down to tbe water's edge, by a schooner name unknown . The Wellington, from St. Andrew's to this port, baa put iato Btdeford with decks swept. Marstrano, Dac. 9 -A cask of rum marked '•A.E, 23, 13, and some casks of tar, havebe n picked up near Lysekihl. Stavanqkr, Dae. 10.-The , Brigge, from Dram timber-laden has put Into St. Kudne Ness leaky, and with loss of deck-load. Mbmbl, Dbc. 20.-The Fortuna, ln leaving the port to-day took the ground, out was got off and proceeded. Rkicsbhrg, Dkc. 26.-The Vrouw Ellda.from Konlgsberg to Ant werp, sprung aleak and foundered W.N.W. of Fehmern crew saved. Elsinbur, Dbc. 24.-The Louise and Julie, from Wolgust, put in here to-day leaky, and will probably have to dint-barge. Guayaquil, Sbpt. 27.-The Adela from Cadiz got aahore at the mouth of the river, was assisted off with considerable damage cargo landing ln a damaged state. Gravbsknd, Dkc 31.-Arrived the Dorothy from Quebec, Helen from Uogadore, Mentor from Leghorn, Countess of Lonsdale steamer from Hamburg. 30. Elizabeth from Jamaica, Ontario from New Yorft, Prince George from Halifax, Adventure from Tercelra, City of Boulogne steamer from Boulogne. Sailed the Emerald for Ceylon, Rachel for Sydney, Alicia for Port Philip, Barbara Gordon for Tobago, Charlotte Wylie for Aft lea, Juanita for the Canaries, and Mentor for Constantinople. VKSSir.8 sroiur with The Jersey Laps from Bristol to Africa, on the 21st ull., iu lat 46, long. 17. by the Adventure, arrived in the River. The Havanna Packet bound to the River Piute, on tbe 16th Novem ber, In lat. 6 8., long. 26 Victoria from Liverpool to New South Wales, on the 20tb, ia lat -, long. 24 Lnwrenre Copeland bound to Monte Video, on the 27th, lu .'at. 12 N , long. 22, by the Mary and Anne, arrived iu tbe Downs. Tlie Castro from Rio Janeiro to Hamburg, on the 4th ult., in lat. 26, lon.34 Ariadne from Hamburg to Valparaiso,.on the 29th, in lat. 43, long. 16, by the Johannes, arrived at Falmouth. The Ranger packet from Falmouth to Rio Janeiro, In lat. 7 N long. 26 W., by the CatharlpaDorcthea, arrived off Falmouth. The Columbia from Liverpool to New York, on the 17th ult., ln lat. 42, long. 40, with loss of sails, c., and supplied by the OllRda, arrived at Cork. The Bidaon from Liverpool to Calcutta, out seven days, In lat. 61, long. 9, by the Ratchford, arrived at Waterford. The Clyde, from Liverpool to Charleston, ln long. 22 W., out 38 days, by tbe Sesostris, arrived at Belfast. VBPHKLS B.VTBRBD INWARDS AT TBH CUSTOM-BO USB, DEC. 31. The True Love from Batavia, Elizabeth front Jamaica, Ontario from New York, Prince George from Halifax, Dorothy from Quebec, Adventure from Tercelra, Helen from Mogadore, Mentor from Leg horn, Breeze from Bordeaux, Alexander from Guernsey, Countess of Lonsdale steamer from Hamburg, and Comet from Havannah. VKS8KLS HNTKRhD OUTWARDS FOR LOADING. The Jamea for Dunkirk, Morayshire for Sydney, New South Wales, Courier for the Cape of Good Hope, Teresa for Trieste and Venice, Ontario for New York, Felia for - , Giraffe steamer for Rotterdam, and Favourite for Elalneur and St. Peter hurg. VKS8KL8 CLKARKD OUTWARDS WITH CARGO. The Emerald steamer for Boulogne, Ceres for Sierra Leone, Python for Antwerp and Brussecis, Wll.am Jelliffe steamer for Calais, Fame for Antwerp, Monarch for Amsterdam, Emerald for Tenerlffe, Nautilui for St. Lucia, Standard for Guernsey, Escalduaca for Bilbao, Antwerpen steamer for Antwerp, and Anna Louisa for Bremen, -MAILS. In 8ibd Oils we have no variation this week. the demand is triilng. In Oil of Tueuntink there 1 nothing new the article continue duil ef tale at the late redocad ralM The sales of Palm Oil have been confined to email lots in all about 100 Urns , at 6e to jff32 lOeperton but by moet holder theee prloee are refused. No buslneea of the least Import, ance bae transpired in Hbmpi • email lot of Bombay eold at 16 per ten. Tallow.-The market Is still unusually dull for the sea. son, and eome business has been done this we k a trifle low r, but the moderate stock prevents any material decline in prices a parcel of New Orleans Tallow, mixed, but part very good, sold at 46 d per cwt. Dvbwoods.-The eales are 180 torn Loqwood. at £9 7s6d fer Carapeacby, and £ 10s to £4 16s for Jamaica 100 tons Fustic at previous rates, snd 260 tons Baswood, at jfr3 12s Gd for Gaboon, and £6 10s per ton for Angola. The demand for Tuspintikb con tinues regular for parcels of fair quality at 7e, at which price 2,00 J barrels have been sold. No sales reported ln Tar. Tbe buii. nets In Ashks has been upon the most limited scale, at prices scarcely varying from those of last week. Hidbs- No sale of momett have transpired this week. Tobacco.-There has been a large business transacted during the month, acd the sales reach 1,900 hhds, v! ., 470 Virginia leaf, 500 stemmed, 235 Kentucky itat, and 695stemmed of these 450 were for Ireland, 130 for Scotian l, '260 for export, 220 for resale, and the remainder to the trade Prices continue steady, and the market firm. The transaction! In East India Drysaltery articles are quite unlmpartant this week. U chests Madras Ivdigo sold at 3s 2d to 3s 9d, a small lot of Chlnt Turmbric at 23s, and a few chests Shkll Lac at 4'J . Only 100 baga Saltpktrb to report at 25a 6d, acd a similar quantity of Ni tratk of Soda at 19s par sound, and 16s fid all faults . Sugar • There continues a steady demand forB.P., and the sales are 40obhd , without change In price. Bengals are more Inquired t at, particularly very fine white descriptions, and 4,000 bags have l een disposed of, chiefly from 67s 6d to 69s per cwt. 400 baga Mauritius are also reported. Foreign 32 cases good brown Bahia have been sold at J9i, and about t 00 boxes ordinary to good yellow Havanna at 2 • to 22s fid, and 70 boxes white at 27s per cwt. Molassbs.-A fair demand continues, and the sales amount to 2UO puna Demerara, oC good quality, at 28s from the quay, and 60 puns Antigua at 29s per cwt. Copfkk.-There are no sales of Plantation to report, but 50 bags Ceylon have been dl po ed of, the price uot reported. Of Foreign, 36 brls of fair mlddliog La Guayra brought 6tJ , an 160 baga good Coats Rica 61a per cwt. Nothing worthy of notice taa oc-curred in Cocoa, Ginokr, TarreR, or Pimento. No aalra In Rick. Rum.-The sale are 55 puas Jamaica, of a favourite mark, at 4a 9i, 40 Demerara, and M casks Eant India at 2a per gallon. Tea -The demand continues limited, and the few transactions that have Uken place have been at rather earier price . WAKEFIELD CORN MARKET, Dec, 3 , The freali arrivals this week were large of heat and small of other articles tine qualities were comparatively scarce, and full maintained their previous value, but Interior aorta wer is ptr quarter cheaper. Barley also met a slow sale at a r duc ion ef la-per quarter. Beans, Oats, and Shelling, on a llintud retail inqaln were unaltered in value. Wheat Nortorlk and Suffoik, new re'., 45s to 4o , tine 50a Lincoln ur d Cunbri'ge. 43s t . 45s. fine 48s Yorkshire, 43s to 44s, fine 46s new w .lte, 46s to 4Vs, Lee 54s old red, 43s to 4os, fine 48S old white, 45fto 4 s, floe 62a per quarter of tipihs to the bushel. Oats 16 to llri, tine 21s per qoai ter mealing, 9dto9Vkd, tine 9bd peri tom. barley-Norfolk and Suffolk. 26s to 28s, Chtv. 3Us Llocolnilure, 24s U 26s, fine 27s Yorkshire Wold, 24s U 2fis. floe 27s per quarter of 44 lbs. Beaus old, 29s lo 8 s, tne 32s new, 24e ts 27s, tin 29s per quarter of 63lbs. 8heiling, 23a to 24s per load of 2fil lbe. Malt, 33a to 36 . pne 38m per load of 6 baahels Imperial. Rap . •eed, £00 to 31, fine £32 per last imperial. Arrivals report 1 . Wheat 7,667, Barley 2.391, Data 926, Beaus 690, Ftas 173, 3hel ling 730. . IT-WOOL AIARKETS-Saturday. Lbbds-English Trade continues much the same In this branch-very dull but this is usual ln Christmas week. Foreign There hat not been much business doing this week, being 'tie closing week of the year, and many are hoping for an Increase of trade In the new year. Wakbkibld.-There has not been much doing this week , f w •ales of any note have been effected. Liverpool.-As usual at tula period of the year, there la very little demand for either Foreign or Scotch Wool. The tranaactioua during the lust week were on a very limited scale, but there was no material variation in prices. Arrivals this weekForeign, 5 0 Scotch, 184. Prevloualy this yearForeign, 33,634, Scotch, 3,092. Total -Foreign, 34,214 Scotch, 13,276 Credulity.-We have seldom heard of a more striking instance of credulity than the following 1 , which occurred a week or two aigo, to a farmer who resided ou the borders of the adjoining county of Yorkshire, in tlie parith of Bowland, and near to the town ol SUidburn. The name of his farm was Gold Hill, or, as it is called by bi neighbours, Gowd Hill. A gypsy called upon the subject of our story, and knowing well the weak side of humanity, after speaking of the name of bis farm, gave him sundry hints of its having reference to eome treasure con Arr, Doe. Arr. Lae Dobilu .. 0 Ma!®-0 . W Waterford 1 . ... 0 Ostond . u .. o Franco 0 1 Leeward Islands . .. ... O Guernsey an-1 Jersey. . . ... o Mexico ..o .. 0 Flandero.... ..... 0 . ....0 Jamaica .. 0.. .. u Holland 0 .. 0 Halifax.. ..0 . ... 0 La Guayra 0 . ....0 Brazil .. .. . . 0.. ....0 Hamburg 0 . ....1 Lisbon and Glbraitsr 0., ... 6 cealed on the premises, aud which she could discover by certain means in her power. The wily hajr quickly toot advantage of his credulity in lending 1 a willing 1 ear to her LIVERPOOL, Dec. 31. eillPS ARRIVED. The Isabella from New Orleans, and Rising Sun from Laguna. SHIPS HVTBRKD POR LOADI.VO. The Grecian for Civita Wcchla, James Dunn for Corfu, Patras, aud Zante, Zoteff for Havannah, Susquehanna for Philadelphia, and Sarah for Smyrna. SHIPS CT.BAREI OUTWARDS. The Salome for Leghorn, Pearl for Lisbon. Patna and Nautilus for China, Nestor for Calcutta, Antigua packet for Cey ! on, Autumnus for Jamaica, Joseph Porter for Mobile, and Sheffield for New York. The Rising Sun, from Laguna, at this port, sailed on the 14th of November. The P. H. Deau was to sail In fourteen days for this port. Tbe Duke of Wellington and the Sultana were to commence loading in a few days for this port. The port ef Laguna was declared to be In a state of blockade. Ofl'port, the Corinthian, from Patras. LONDON MARKETS-Saturday. MATCH against TIME.-BRUTAL TREAT-MENT of a HORSE. Justicb Room, Nbwbury.-On Thursday last William North, of Momnouth-8treet, Bath, tavern-keeper, appeared before William Mount, Esq., chairman, and other magis trates, to answer the complain t of Mr. Henry Thomas, the secretary pf the Royal Society tor the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which charged him with haviug wantonly and cruelly abused, illtreated, aud tortured a horse, at the parish of Wolford, in the county of Berks. The defendant pleaded not guilty. SALE OF THE LATE MR. CLARK' STUD, AT YORK Baronet, 440 gs Master Thomas, 110 gs Lord of Hokerness, 3 gs . Philip, 370 g Aberneihy, 120 gs The JEra, 390 gs , Sir FeDj mln, 50 gs Amelne, 44 gs. Brood Mares-The dam of Amelne, 76 gs Philip's dam, 110 gs Era's dam, 80 gs Chapean de Pallie. 31 gs mare by Ishmael out of Arachne, 63 gs Lollypop, 53 gs mare by Langor, out of Marlon, l00g Rory O'More'a dam, 136 gs mare by Velocipede, out of DorabelU, 33 gs mare by Velocipede, out of Streamlet, 70 gs. Yearlings - Brown Bess, 29 gs Vates, 255 gs Theraicus, 250gs ch g by Ebberton, 52 gs. Foals-Colt by Bay Middleton, out ef Ameine's dam, 29 gs colt by Bay Middleton, out of Philip's darn, 185 gs colt by Gladiator, dam by Langar, 30 gs colt by Gladiator, out of Lollypop, 21 gs a id filly, by Gladiator, d by Ishmael, out of Aracr.e, 17 gs. The Shall stallion , 225 gs. Colonel Thompson's Hamlet fetched 470 gs. The following lots were also Bold, the property of Lord George Bentlp.ck -Marrow Fat, 29 guineas Torchlight, 3 yrs, 29 guineas. Foals of 1842.-b c by Bay Middleton out of Phantaslma, 15 guineas b f by Bay Middleton out of Torch, 10 guineas and b by Bay Middleton out of Torchlight, 10 guineas. M isceilaneous lots.-Hamlet, 47t'lgulneas Bother'eni, 106 guineas, Twilight, 3 yrs, 100 guineas Sister to the Lord Mayor, 6 yrs, IM guineas i Alisa Harewodd, 4 yrs, 82 gulneae Colt foal, by Sheet Anchor out of Theresa, 77 guineas Pelisse, 49 guineas b m by Belshazzar, dam by Capsicum, 49 guineas Blister, 30 guineas Syren, 3 yrs, 26 guineas. At the sale of tbe Coursing Stud of tlie late Mr. P. Houghton, of Man chester, the celebrated greyhoundTyrant fetched £210, Hester £ 105, aud several others, very good prices. Tiir Quebn's Hou.vDM.-On Monday the meet was at Stoke common the deer was turned out at East Burnham Beeches, she would not face tbe country, and after ringing about close by was taken after being at large an hour and a half. The field was a lerge one. On Thursday another strong muster at Dltton Marsh the first deer turned out got hurt by being mobbed, and hunted about before the hounds were laid on, consequently she was ran into lm medUtely. A second deer was then turned out which afforded l good hour and a quarter's run over a stiffisb country, namely, to Hook, and on to Epsom common, then to Ashstead-pnrk and Hedgeley, where the chase ended. Oa Saturday the dter was un carted at New Lodge, paise.i Mr. Blane's park and over the forest, crossed and re-crossed the Ihamei, and was taken near Windier, pH Mr. Thomas said Society for the Prevention oj that he appeared on behalf of the Royel . f Crueity to Animal , to prose cute the defendant for having most cruelly illtreated word or walk a etep. A policeman said he saw the gentleman in a helplesfi state at eleven o'clock, apparently supported by a vounir man ml. A HA flr.llKk montod fA I aK kjm U'li-AA. r . J wlto. no doubt, wanted to rob him. Witness interfered and a. tlie defendant wa wholly unintelligible, conveyed' him to the station- house. Defendant No doubt of it. The man ia right, my lord The Lord Mayor Was the man you were with your friend ?•-Defendant 80 much my friend that he wished to rob me of £9 or £10 that's all. But I want to be off It won't do for roe to lose £10 tt-day. I'll give what you please to the poor-bex. The Lord Mayor You don't appear to be soberaow Have you had any sleep?-Defendant Sleep! God bless you I've been asleep till now, and I have not had a drop to-' ay yet,' though Christmas is not over yet laughter . The policeman said that he had good reason to think that the gentleman had been robbed by a woman of the town of £3. Defendant Can't help that. Don't know It. Don't doubt it. But I'll be off now. How much tin shall drop'! The tie Lord Mayor Did the defendant offend or injure any body in his drunkenness?-The Policeman Nobody,my lord. The Lord Mayor Then he is fined only five ehillings. Defendant Then I'm off. The Lord Mayor Don't let roe see you on Monday morn ing a laugh Def ' lefendant Never, except, perhaps, we have a drop to gether great laughter A New Claimant for the Thkonb.-While Sir certain age, advanced to the table with the air of a Orena dler. The case having juet concluded, which occupied the attention of the two magistrates, Sir Jamee Duke, on be holding tbe lady, hastily quitted hi neat, and retreated Into .u- room sir Chapman Marshall wa . the magistrate private room however,not qnite io fortunate. The worthy magistrate, who appear as if some sudden calamity haa overtaken him, thus addressed the lady Now Miss Newell, what do you want with me?-Miss Newell With great solemnity Well, Sir Chapman, I've got you and though one gentleman won't listen to me another shall. For four-and-twenty year I've pursued this aublect. and a this ie the last day of tbe old year I'm thi eubject, and determined to bring It to a i omt Alderman Do, madam, tell me how to detain me '-Mi s Newell looking up at id then at her gold watch Why, what quarter of an hour? Alderman No pray say five minutes. Mi l Newell I'd rather you'd split the difference how-ou are going e office clock, do you think of prose-p ateda horse. The charge arose outof the following circumstances -The defendant and another person agreed to drive their horse from Bath to Newbury, a distance of 53 miles, in four hours and a half. They started from Bath on Wed nesdav the 7th ult., about nine o'clock in tbe morning, and thedefendant arrived at the Halfway-house, in the parish of Welford, shortly after one o'clock, having driven the poor animal forty-eight miles in four hours and a quarter. A witness would be able to prove that the conduct of the de fendant when he puesed the turnpike-gate at Welford waa most wantonly iruel. The landlord of the inn would be the next wituess, and he wonld describe the condition of tbe horse when put into hie stable, and that it died within twenty minutes after it arrived from the effects of having been over-driven. In the evening the ani-aial was examined by a veterinary surgeon in the presence of the landlord, and he should be able to prove that the immediate cause of death was the violent exertion it had been compelled to undergo. When the defendant rcaohed Hungerford, he stopped a minute or two to give the horse some sherry. At this place, several persons remarked tbe condition of the horse, and advised the de fendant not to proceed, as it was quite evident that the horse could not live to reach Newbury, He, however, per sisted, and continued towards the Halfway-house, wheu the death of the animal compelled him to give up the match. Mr. Thomas then called Robert Bemiater, who stated that he keeps the turnpike gate at Hoe Benham, in the parish of Welford, and that on the 7th of the present month lie saw the defendant and another person, about one o'clock, coming from the direction of Hungerford towards the turn pike gate. The o'her man wa on horseback, und had hold of tbe reins of another horse, which was har nessed to a light gig, and was dragging it along, while the defendant was walking by the side of the horse, and flogging it most violently. ben they came to the gate, he particularly remarked the condition of the MORTALITY OF THE METROPOLIS. NUMBER OF DEATHS FROM ALL CAUSES REUISTBRBD IN THE WEEK ENDING SATURDAY, DEC.' i!4, 1842. Epidemic, Endemic, and ContagiouB Diseases 158 Diseases ol the Brain, Nerves, audSenses 141 Diseases of the Lungs, and other Organs of Respiration 242 Diseases ef the Heart and Bloodvessels 19 Diseases ot the Stomach, Liver, and other Organs of Digestion ...................................... 128 North Districts .. 305,000 102 161 144 Central Districts . 373,806 188 185 149 East Districts.... 302,400 206 207 205 South Districts .. 438,000 221 228 207 Total 1.870,727 912 913 833 Mules, 395 Females, 438. Weekly average 1838-9-40-1 Males, 407 Females, 446. CORN ARRIVALS. The following are tbe arrivals ol Corn, Pulee, Seede, end Flour In the port of London, during the work ending on tbe Slit December. Englleh Wheat 3,723, Barley 7,192, Molt 5,024, One 2,8 5, Heans 979, Peai 677, Tarei 8, Llnioed 7, and sundry other •eedi 87 quarters, Flour 2,947 aocke. Scutch Wheat 50, barley 3,295, O-ts 3,985 quarters. Irish Oata 19,619 quarters. Fo reign Wheat 1,035, Barley 388, Beano 4,050, Pool 230, Tores 3,049, and sundry other seeds 7 quarters. F our 1,906 barrels. NEWGATE AND LEADENHALL MARKETS. Miat.-Our markets, though they did not eihil.lt a very exten sive supply, nere In a very sluggish slate, sud ths quotations were a shads loner. Beer from 3s to 3a 5.1, Mutton 3s 4d to 4s 2d, Veal 3l 8d to 4s 2d, snd Pork 3s 8d to 4s 6.1, per Slbs by the carcase. Poult ay.-The supplies of both game and poultry ou isle here lo day bring extensive, the general Inquiry was heavy, at the follow, lug somewhat depressed rstee Turkeys 5s to 20s, Geese 4s to 7 , Capons 4s to 10s, Roasting Pigs 4s to 8s, Rabbits 44 to la 3d, Hares 2s to 3s 6d, Partridges Is 3d to 2s, Woodcocks 2 to 3s, Pheasants 2s 6d to 4s, Qrcusa 2s to 3 , Ptarmigan Is sd to 2s Cd, Snipes is to Is 6d, Teal 4d to Is, Wild Docks Is 3d to 2s, Widgeons 8d to Is d, Plovers d to 8d, and Pigeons rid to lOd each, Fowls 4s to 8 , Chickens 2s to 4s, a. d Ducks 2l to 5s per couple. Fresh Rutter Is 3d to Is 5d per lb., Eggs 8s to i0s tier 10 1, WHITECHAPEL. The supply of meat was large, though Inquiry for It was slow, it late rates. Reef from 3s 2d to 3s 81, Mutton 3s 4d to 4s 2d, Vtal 3s fed to 4s 21, and Pork 3s 6d to 4s 6d per 81b, by tbe carcase, NEWPORT. We hid a large entity of meat brought forward this morning, the sale for nhlch was slow. Beer frem 3s 2d to 3s I0J, Mutton 3s to 4s 2d, Veal 3a 8d to 4s 4d, cud Pork 3s 8d to 4s id per Bibs by the carcase. BILLINGSGATE. We had a decided Improvement In tbe demind for moat kinds of fish, and tbe rates hid an upward tendency. Turb .ta sold at from 10s to 24s, Cod-fish Is fid to 12s, Haddocks 4d to Is 2d, Whit-logs 4d to 8d, Mackarel fid to Is 2d, Dorya 2s to . t fid, Crabs fid to 2s fid, and Lobsters Is 3d to 3s id each. Soles 8d to 3s 3d par pair. Smelts Is lOd to 3s, Fresh Herrings Is to 2s 4d, and Thamte Flounders Is 2d to 2s 2d perdozen, Salmon lud to Is 44,Crlmpdd Skate fid to 10J, und Kelt fid to li 3d per lb, Sprats 3s to 4a 3d, cud Oysters 16s to 25s per bue'oel. HUNGERFORD. Notwithstanding the supplies of meat and other articles wrrs scanty, the general Inquiry waa slow, at about late rates. COVENT GARDEN. Owing to the continued mildness of the weather, we had a very large supply of most kinds of vegetables on sale lu to day's market, while the demand was heavy, at barely last week's curreacles. Fruit was again abundant, and tltremely low In price. Potatoes sold hit vlly, at their quotations. Potatoes from 3t to 4s per cwt. Turnips Is lOd to 2s ltd. Carrots 3s to 5 , Coleworts or Greens Is 3d to 2s, and Leeks la to Is fid per dozen buuches, Applea !■ 3d te 3s, Pears 4s to 5a fill, Onions Is fid to 2s fid per half sieve, New Oranges and Lemons 8s to IPs, and Walnuts Ivd to Is 4d per !09, Erocoll fis to 12s, and Celery 13s to 18s, perdozen bunches, Endive Is fid to 2s 6d, per score, Savoys Is to end Red Cabbages 2s to fis per dozen heads, Mesh rooms Is to Is fid, and Smell Salad 2d to 3d per punurt, Turnip Radlehes fid to Ie per dozen bends, Horseradish I ■ id to 3s per bundle, Spanish Nuts Js to 3s t Barcelona 3s to 3s 2d, and Chestnuts 2s 6d to 3s fid per peck. HAY MARKETS. Smituviblp.-Coarse Meadow Hay, atr.'l Os to jff3 I5 useful ditto, jff t 1 SI to 4 4 4S j hue Upland ditto, jC4 5s to 44 10s Clover Hay, 4 4 u 0s Ost Straw, stl to 42 2r 1 Wheat Straw, 42 3s to 42 4s per load. Spply moderate, and trade rather dull, at about stationary prices. Cumukai.and.-~Coarse Meadow Hay, 43 5a to 43 15s j useful ditto 44 to 44 5s fine Upland ditto, 44 fis to 44 12a j Clover Hay, 44 s to 45 fis Oat Straw, 4 2 la to 43 3s Wheat Strew, 42 4s to 42 6e per load. A ehort supply and a staady Inquiry, at the above quotations. WatTscuAriL.-Coarse Meadow Hay, 43 Os to 43 15s useful ditto, 44 Is to 44 4s doe Upland ditto, 44 5s to 44 U S Clover Hay, 44 5s to 45 I5e r Oet Straw, 41 ISllo42 2s Wheat Straw, 42 3a te 42 4e per load. Both Hay and Straw met a slow Inquiry, wit! out material alteration In figure. BIDE MARKET. Raw Hidxs.--Best Steers and Hellers, fisOd tofisSd Middling Hides, 5s 4d te 5s lud inferior ditto, 4s Sd to 5s 2d, at per stone of!4lbs. Siixse and Calf-Skins.-Market Calf, 8s Od to 9s 8d Lorg-woo.led Sheep, 2s lOdtu 4s 4d Short ditto, 2 2d to StdJat per sklu. . BREAD. The prices of Whee'en Bread In the metropolis are from 7d to 7Md of Household, 5d to fitv.i, per 4-lb loaf, Liverpool markets. aiTIIW OF THI LIVIUFOOL COTTON MARKET FOR THI W i . XNDINO FRIDAY, BBC. 30. The trade purchased rather eiteulvely of Cotton during the peat week the demand wae freely met, and the lower qualities of American ,tlo gig horse, which appeared completely exhausted, and hardly able to put one teg before the other. Witness fully ex pected that if the defendant had stopped to pay the toll, the orse would have dropped down and died. They pasted through the gate, and, a far as the witness coultj see, the defendant continued to flog the poor animal most unmerci fully. It was about ten minutes past one o'clock when they passed witness. Tbe Halfway-house la about a quarter of a mile further on, Robert Ailee, the landlord of the Halfway-house proved that tbe horse died in his stable within a short time alter the defendant arrived, in consequence, in the opinion of witness, of having been over-driven. This waa also the opinion of tbe veterinary surgeon. The defendant, who appeared to treat the matter with great indifference, did not deny that he bad driven the horse the distance in the period of time stated but said that tbe death of the horse did not preceed from over-ex-ertion, but because it had been fed shortly before starting, and had been allowed to take some cold water at Marl borough. The magistrates having consulted together, tbe Chair man told the defendant that the magistrates were Unani mous in convicting him of the offence charged, aud that he eter, I cbd say a good deal iu five minutes loud laughter , 1 must pay a penalty ot £5 6s. 6d., casts included or, in Alderman Well, begin. j default of payment, be imprisoned for two months, with Miss Newell Sir Chapman, do you believe in a God ? hard labour. Alderman jRe lly madam, I-- The penalty was paid Camberwell Anti-Corn-law Association,■ A special meeting of this branch of the Metroplitan Asso ciation was held on Friday evening at the Rosemary Branch, Southampton-street, Camberwell, for tbe purpose of orga nising the district for tbe collection of the Great League Fund. Mr. Lyon, the honorary secretary, who did uot arrive until near nine o'clock, stated, in explanation of his absence, that he had been detained at a meeting at the Central-office, West Strand, and he waa happy to inform them that.Mr. Faulton, from Manchester, bad addressed that meetiug, and recommended a line ot operation for the bet ter success ot the objects they had in view, which had been unanimously adopted, and a resolution passed to carry it out. Mr. Lyon then proceeded to explain the measure which had been decided upon after which he stated that he was now prepared to Issue subscription cards for amounts vary ing from Is. to £5, so as to suit all classes of subscribers, and to receive the names of such gentlemen a wished to co-operate with the committee sitting at the British Hotel, Cockspor-strest. Upon the subject of registration of members on the roll of the League, he had to report that he had put iu circulation one hundred sheet , to which 2,000 signatures had already been affixed, and a registration fee of irom one penny to a shilling received from each party, making in the aggregate £20 applause , which sum he had no doubt would be considerably increased before the close of the registration. As that was the last meeting for the year 1842, he would state that he bad funds to commence the next year's campaign. The receipts for the year, including the amount realised by two soiriet. were £85, of which, after all disbursements, he bad a balance in hand ap plause . Several gentlemen then address d the meeting, ref-rrei tie fund. Amongst tne names gi Messrs. W ilkinson, Chairman of the association, Goulston, W. Clarke, J. Smith, F. Ferranti, J. Bone, J. Poulten, J. A. Lyon, Sec. The meelir.g then separated. Murder Twenty Years Aao.-A man of the name of Cornelius Brosnaran, was last week committed by J. Drummond, Esq., the stipendiary magistrate of this town, to the county gaol, charged with a muider com mitted twenty years ago on a man named Edmond M 'Sweeney. The prisoner wad arrested by one of the police twn io Stationed in Cas'leiehtofi.-ifeev,, Eoarrtinrr, . , were plentiful at th quotations of this day se'nulght, which we also repeat for other descriptions, though rather higher prices were obtalnad fer the better kinds. The market closed aoinewhet quietlr to-day. Tbe Irausacttona were on a large acale, 36,050 bales having met with purohaaers 200 American and 100 8urat were bought by exporters, and 6,500 American were taken on speculatl .n, 4, .20 American and 20 Marxnham were forwarded Into thelnterlor.nnaold, this month, COTTON MARKET, Dkc.31. The sales to-day were ratber limited, not more than 3,000 I a'ea haring met with buyers. Prices were perfectly steady, and the market closed quietly. CORN MARKET, Dxc. SO. We have had fair Imports of Oats aud Oatmeal from Irelaud, but tha arrivals of other articles thence or coastwise have been very light since Tuesday, and the foreign supplies were also on a limited acale. Having a very thin attendance of buyer at market thie morning, the Wheat trade conUnued dull, and the transactions lu that de scription of grain were extremely few, atlll prices were In all in stances steadily maintained. English and Irish Flour ou a fiat loqulry were rather cheaper, hut foreign aorte were unaltered In value. Oata wete iu moderate request, on terms nearly equal to those last quoted, aud Oatmeal waa firm. Prim Barley and Malt brought full prices, other qualities were unsaleable, and ItaLS and Peas were neglected. IRISH PROVISION MARKET, Dxc. 30, The fresh arrivals of Butter from Ireland alnce Saturday lait have amonnted to 4,788 firklna. Our Butter market bax been ruber brlak thla week. Sareral wholeaal dealera from tbe country, anti, dpatlng a further advance from tha llghtneaa of tbe atocks, bars been extenalre buyera, and the homa cona imptlen trade altogether haa had a good tone. Fair tb fine deacrlptlone were held for an ad vance of 2e to3a per cwt. en prevloua rate , but we hare no lm. proven.ent to notice In Inferior aorta, owing to tbe Import iron Canada having been considerable of late, and comprlaed bfvariou qualities, which were moatly offered on low terms. Cork pickled aecondi were In demand for axpurt, end I to 2 per cwt. nearer Bacon movedeff alnwly. Irlah keg Lard waa acarce, and Amt.lean waa in gaod requeat. at 44a to 45a per cwt. duly laid. Barrelled Provletcna w.re uken to a moderate extent for ahl. x' atorei and exporter purchased 60 barrels of Disband 150 barrels tf American Beef acd Pork. Butter Belfast, new, 7fi to 78a Ballymony, 74a fo Banbridge, fifia to 72a t Carlow, new, 64a to 78a Cork Idle tales, aud, in answer to his request to be put in pos session of the treasure, required the usual infallible' crossing of the hand with money, and as the riches to be ob tained were great, so the amount demanded was high, Icing no less than £100. But as riche were not of easy attain ment, and such an opportunity of acquiring them seldom occnrs the weak-minded fellow determined to possess the treasure, and gathered all his money, which amounted to £25, as the price for the information, but the sylnl would not sell him the secret for this sum, und he accordingly bor rowed of his neighbours £75, to make up the amount de manded. The'gypsy having received the hundred sove reigns, wrapped them in a piece of brown paper, and going with the man up stairs, they both kuelt down, and, after pretending to utter some charms upon them, she returned to him a brown parcel, to lie put in a box, which was not to be opened lor a week, when there was to be£t50. The tale scarcely needs to be further told on opening tbe parcel there were one hundred and fifty pieces of tin ! When the fraud was discovered the impostor had decamped, but she has been traced to the neighbourhood of Manchester, A reward of £10 is offered for her apprehension.-Prt ton Chronicle. Accident to the Dover Coach.-On Satur day night, about half-past seven o'clock, an accident occurred to the Phoenix Dover Coach, which had just arrived from Dover, at the Bricklayer's Arms, in the Old Kent-road. The coachman had got down from the box, as customary, giving tlie horses in charge to a man at their heads. Several of the passengers also got down, having three others, two gentlemeu and a boy, on the rt o'. In a few minutes the leaders were startled by the sudden smack ing of a carter's whip, and notwithstanding all the efforts of the man to stop them, set off at full gallop, through the gate in the New kent-road, and proceeded at a tremendous pace, with the reins dragging at their heeds, towards Weet-minster-bridge. The passengers on the outside wore in the greatest terror, and the shouts of tbe people in their endea vours to stop tne horses but increased tbe auimals' speed. They passed the Elephant and Castle without coming in contact with any ot the numerous omnibuses plying there, and pursued their carter along the St. George's-rosd, to the Marsh-gate, in the Westminster-rond, through which they dashed without the least damage. By the time the horses reached the foot oi Westminster-bridge they began to slacken their speed, and the two gentlemen clambered over the roof of the coach and descended behind, but the boy was afraid to attempt it. Just as the horses reached the centre of the bridge a boy with a truck, another branch Dover coach, and a brewer's dray, were coming in an opposite direction, and there being no room for them to pass, they all came with fearfnl violence against the dray, aud by the collision the coach was overturned and the lad was thrown violently on to the pavement, and miraculously escaped unhurt. One of the leaders was killed on the spot aud the forepart of the coach was smashed to pieces. Tlie lad draw ing tbe truck fortunately escaped with only a few bruises. Tne damage done to the coach is very considerable. Thunder Storm.-On Friday last this town and neighbourhood were visited with a mest terrific thunder storm, which did much damage in many places. Mr. Ellis, of Vi ardhouse, has suffered to a con-ideritble extent his house was struck with the electric fluid, which rent the gables almost every pane of glass in the windows were smashed, and much damage was done to the furniture. A servant girl, who had a knife in her hand, which attracted tho lightning, was severely injured and another servant girl is also greatly burnt. The children and nursery-maid were all in the nursery, seated round the tire, acd the entire room with the exception of the part they were in , was destroyed by the lightning. All the china, delph, snd glass are destroyed, and tho house, with the exception of a parlour and bedroom over it, is past repairing. The pendulum ot the clock was twisted like a screw. Never had any family a more miracu lous escape from so awful a visitation, Tho loss of property to Mr. Ellis exceeds £200. As far as weean learn, there lias been no loss oi human life, but the loss of cattle and other property throughout the country is considerable.-Hally' shannon Herald. DIED. December 31, aged 37, S.iaan, the beloved wife of P. Bakes. F of Fustou-cqnare, and daughter of J, Anat.ce, Fan., of Axzi'n-t.r, after a very severe and tinkering lllneaa, which ana hore with tf.e moat exea.nlary aud chrlatlan resignation. On the 30thnlb, at hla house, Tottenham green, dam.i Klritlei Bajea. In Cambridge-street, Coiii.augf.t-square, cn the Slat D-.a iiher. Eliz.heth, youngest daughter of Juhn Williams, Eaq., la o rr Maj-aty's Receipted Exchequer. On the 24th ult,, at St. Michael's, near ll.erpo.t, Abigail, the wife of Daeid Dockr y. Ou the 27th ult. Thomas Blnnx, f Mount Ve non s'r.t, L'ver-verpool, a member of the Society of Friends. HIGH WATER AT LONDON-BRIDOK THIS DAY. Morning.,.. 59 min. oast 2 I Afternoon 18 min. reel 3. ALE by Mii O of LINEN DR.1 POSTER, is now on ALEbyMH. FOSTER.-The GREAT SALE APEKY GOODS, announced to take place by Mr. . on at the corner of Fleet aud Farrinzdon-street#, being the entire STOCK of the largest wholesale trading flrraj in the City. Mr. FOSTER i§ inetruct d to SELL the whole of thct GOODS to retail cuelomtrs, haring repretented to the proprietors thw difficulty of etTrcting an efficient sale at his Auction Moonm, where the nobility and per-ona calculated to purchase eipensi-.e linen , and curiously tine dflmack cloths. See., would not attend. As these goods hare been accumulating eomo yeire, niinyo' hs articles are of a superior fabric tr those of the present d-y since team has so completely superseded haad-loom wearing . Tn answer to tbo numerous orders for the silks and tuncy goods adrertiied that part of the stock is entirely cleared out, and in ord-.-r that the r main ing portion o' the Ntock.coneist.ng of Carpets, Linens, 6cc. may bo deposed of quick'? the premises being let , 2s. in tho pound will be allowed extra off all ourchases that exceed ten pounds. The sale no r consists principally or linrns of the finest charnel r, and the reduction is guaranteed to the following extent, • will bo Men on inspection 5SO pieces of Bennett's finest Coleraine I nto, of tho original a. d. value of Is. 9d. and 2s. per yard, will be sold all at 36 yards for tt 0 100 pit-cos of the finest numbers, suitable for the wear of the nobility or persons wishing finest linens, 26 yards for . . 42 0 About 1,400 pieces of Knox's stout linens, that were bought fnm him direct at I6 d. per yard, average, will bo reduced t 26 yards for Several boxes of yard wide curiously fine toft Irirhes Aue nally marked as. od. per yard, are ftrthor reduced 26 yards ftr The sheetiug and table linens arc all of the finest description, the coarser qualities having been old to the trade. The pri-' will be for lioer. shet tings, fine quality, three yard wide, the p ir, 10s. 6d. and tho?tf of the very besi description, full bleach d, sni of the original value of 9i. 6d. to s per yard, will be reduced to 2U . the pair. Tbe foliowing is a list of table 1 cens, as per book, rendered to Mr. Foster -table cloths, all two yards square, fim §t dsma k, rach 3s. 6d., or by the dozen 300 dozen of breakiait cloths, yards square, all etch Is. td., or by the dozen 600 surerb damask cloth , full three yards Ior.g, valued as per book at 2. s. each, will be sold, each About ICO, full three yards long, inferior damasks, will be sold, at, each si 0 ¥ 0 IS 4 1 6 0.2 3 0 Besides about £3',000 worth of the moet curious aod expensive ublo cloths and napkins, mai.y with coronet, landscapes, and emblems tioal dcvlgns, varying from a tog yards lon , mi n y of the rigtr al value of 10 guineas each, will be sold, being o yards iong, for f. id 40s. 160 doieu of nai k'ns are reduced from due. to g-. 6d. the J z Q, and tewral . - !• Sifc ftNFOUS. er dozen yards . • • • • Ml # ft 9 . 14 6 1 l Counterpanes for cfcarftlcs. per dozen 13 d Cambric hsvidk. rrhiefs. real Fr-uch, perdozen . . • • Lawn ditto, th i dozen . .••••• f ® Blankets, wnwbing e ght p unds. ier pair , . , • J Superior Witney, 6 jordeiong. per pair . . .in toe ® W..fvjrt f, by CH.RUIS MiCS.t of o. !M r' ewnl. in 'te -s.iutv of tele t!. e. v M'rM.v, Janua
THE EXAMINER. m preachers be less proud, less ambitious, less greedy of wealth i' Will Hawser, when he becomes a Bishop, lay down his flippancy. Hill his vulgarity, or Hoirr-imctom his coach J The very names of these men are insulting to a serious dignity. On the other hand, will they practise half so well the npble maxim which com mands them to tolerate ..thers as they themselves are tolerated ? Vill the various peaceable sects, who are. net less worthy than the Mctnodists because they, ace less noisy and vulgar,. be allowed, as' the Methodists arc now, to worship God as they please ? Will no efforts be made, when the Godly have obtained a little ungodly iuterest, to interfere with private opinions under the old Popish system of prosclytisra ? Will not convection be introduced, in the true fatherly way, by a gloving correctioni or persecution softly in sinuated Upon us, under the name of a sweet struggle with lost sheep'l The Church tolerates every species! of belief but -lie Methodists flatly declare that they regard difference pf opinion as a crime and we ail know to whi 1 . punishments criminals are liable. The Papists wanted no better syllogism, when they filled Europe with human sacrifices and the essence of Me thodism is but a distillation from Popery v it is Popery deprived of it's brilliance, it's perfumes, and it's vo latility a M vial of Wrat i,'' hypgC iondriac in it's vapour and caustic to it's last dregs. No, no we have seen the prejudices and the passions which render the Methodists unchristian and unfit for church dominion •. every, body, who knows them intimately, knows that they are not free from a single worldly,fault of which they accuse others, and that they want nothing but the chair at which .they .are aiming, to display all the pride alui corruption ofthe worst establishments, to gether with all the, bigotry, the intolerance, and the hatred of refinement, which characterise a zeal that rejects qeason.. . Such men would never succeed against the Establish ment, provided tbaCluirch were at once just to itself and to others. It is with Church as with. State there is uever any decided and alarming rebellion against either, without some corruption to favour the result. The Establishment possesses so many worldly advan tages, that as long as it uses them without scandal,, it is almost impossible to overturn it but when its mem-bars become too worldly minded, these very advantages are turned against them, and superstition assumes an air of patriotic hazard in opposing the influence ofthe Court and the Crown. At such a time the noisiest.and most intolerant sect, which is always the most power ful, will be ready for invasion, and .with gravity to client the people and promises to secure them, may bind us ail in chains before we perceive that we have lost our opportunity of freedom. The means, of effectual resistance are' therefore very evident self-reform will prevent revolution, and conciliation will unmask tliose traitors who are aiming at rule instead iff reformation. 1, The first care, in attempting to prevent fanaticism, must be not to persecute. This is a maxim essentially necessary to sound policy and sound Christianity for the one. teaches ns not to injure our cause by losing pur temper and character, and the other commands us to do as we would be done by, Let us leave into • France to those, whose faith will not bear the'recom mendation of a perfect mercy, arid who devqfp us to everlasting torments for saying M r e differ with you. 2. The Methqdists accuse the Church' Preachers of not hiring sufficiently earnest in the cause of faith but they are too apt to attribute this laxity to mere worldliness, whereas it arises in great measure from the faith itself, or to speak more properly, from the numerous articles which compose the professed doc trines of the Establishment, The great diffusion of learning and inquiry has dissipated most of those bar barisms which Were introduced into the Christian reli gion by the Popish Casuists and Councils, tfiat succeed ed the reign of Constantine, arid which were after wards preserved by Luther, and Calvin, two violent men,' who spumed at Papacy chiefly because it inter fered with their wqrldly views and ambition. Neither of these men wereChristians,for.they hadan utter wautof diarify, and while they derided the Pope's infallibility, . vehemently and indeed ferociously insisted upon their own. The Church of England calls itsolf Lutheran, the Evangelical Preachers say it is or ought to be Cal vinistic but in point of fact, it is neither. Luther at all times held the doctrine of the Trinity indispens ably necessary, and Calvin in addition to that doctrine -insisted upon the belief of predestination but if you take one Clergyman of the Established Church with another, nine out of ten, who have examiried the subject, not only begin to think the peculiar text Which establishes the Trinity a bible interpolation, but certainly hold predestination as a mystery too Cal-Vinistic tu be insisted on. Why not, therefore, cease x to insist upon every mystery that is incapable of moral analysis or confirmation, or upon which the truth of the Christian religion does not absolutely rest l The sole end of religion is the love of God and of one's neighbour this comprehends all virtue, and there is no mystery in it whatever. If those who believed most, knew and practised most, the most credulous men would be the wisest and best 5 but every body knows the contrary. The love of mystery is tbe beginning of madness. The present Clergy of the Established Church were born in an age of inquiry, and they have obtained the great end of iuquiry, a dislike of dogma tism and a love ,of plain truth. The consequence is, that the Methodists have taken up the negleqted mys teries, and cast them in their teeth. Rubbish is con tinually .falling away from the Church, the inhabitants have not the vigour to remove it, and it is at last converted into a mound of assault .against them. -All this might be done away by one single act of a Convocation, an act which some of the greatest orna ments of the Church have endeavoured to obtain, and tor want of which those who migTit have been as great, have seceded from the Establishment. This is a dis pensation with the subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles. By Such a measure, which would still leave the more vigorous believers in their own opinions while it declared those opinions net requisite to salva tion, the most learned and liberal of the Dissenters, the Unitarians and the Universalists, would be added to the Establishment, the consciences of hundreds of Clergymen who originally subscribed without thinking would be rendered happy, and the Methodists would at once be bereft of their pretences to what is called orthodoxy and reduced to their proper level in s
I f HE EXAMINES or even decent In truth, if they do not reform it altogether, they will act in open defiance of tlie duties they have undertaken to fulfil,-duties, the Violation of which will subject them not only to the censure of their fellow-creatures, but to the awful displeasure of their offended Maker. , , EAST INDIA HOUSE. _ , On Wednesday a Quarterly General Court was held, When the dividend on the Capital Stock of the Company, from the 5th July last to the 5lb January next, was de clared to be 5 1 -4 per cent. NAVAL VIGILANCE! Afterthe dividend bad been declared, and the Chair man had stated the tranquil state in which the last ac counts left Indiaj ■. Mr. Ramble Jackson called the attention of the Court to the extraordinary ascendancy of the enemy's eruizers in the Indian Seas, and the dreadful ravage? which they had been permitted to commit upon British property, and the still greater dishonour which they had brought upoh the country. Who could believe that, with a maritime force greater than had been usually kept in' those seas, the trade of them had been so cothpletely un protected, that the CalcuttaMnsurance Companies alone, had paid losses to the amount of more than two- millions of money within the last seven or eight ypars, and that in the month of September and October only, of the year 1807, their fosses had been upwards of 20 7,0001. that these, as well as numerous other captures, had been ef fected by two French frigdtes, and principally by the Itevcnnant privateer, of 16 guns, which latter had scoured those seas for three months together, and In fact blockaded the Bay of Behgal, although a great maritime force, w ith an Admiral's flag, and several pendants flying, were.then lying within 300 miles of this scene of depredation ! 1 He understood it to be stated in a Memorial front which, he had gathered these facts from the Calcutta Merchants to the Board of Admiralty, tiiat although the ddstinatiotf of these frigates and of this privateer was krtawn to the station at Madras, in September, yet iu the December following, nota vessel had been sent for-tbe protection of the Bay, till at length the Imperial Government of India had been compelled to do what America bad pretended to do on account of the confederated maritime strength of the world, aitfnely, lay an embargo on its shipping, in Order to keep them from the devouring jaws ofthis ter rible privateer of 16 gone, which.had had, itwas said, the no less extraordinary good luck to preserve every one of its prizes from recapture, though it had to send them through a khown track of 3060 miles to the Isles of Mauritius and Bourbon. Mr, Jackson added, that the Madras Government, with that feeling which became it for our fellow-subjects of India labouring under the hor rors of famine, has advertised great encouragement to ships bringing torn for their relief in consequance of which, the shipping interest bad directed Its attention to this object, when shocking as it should seem, if the Me morial spoke trnth, lio one ship tlis£ the Memorialists knew of had been sent out to prutect these vesscb, the consequence of which was, that a conslderabie'part ofthe provisions thus intendeB to save our subjects from death, bad been raptured by the enemy. Mr. Jackson observ ed, that a marine could only be created through the medium of commerce, or through that of ships of War our great enemy not having the former means in bis power, was known, though silently, and, perhaps glowly, bnt surely, to be creating a body of most adventurous, hardy and skilful sailors through the latter tnedinm, the whole of which lie would call to fits service w henever the affairs of the Continent should admit of his directing his energies his marine. Mr. Jackson said, be would not suppose it possible but that-the Directors had made the strong '' representations in the proper quarter, if not, lie adjured them to do so without a moment further loss of ti mC must say, that if they had found th'e forms of office in their way at the Admiralty, they ought to have applied o the Minister, who was answerable for evfery department a failing there, they ought to have addressed themselves to the House of Commons, and laid their case before the country, Mr. Jackson said, he,did nut pMtettd or could say where • the fault lay if with the Commander, the Board of Admiralty that warped jnefve enough to rccal such.a man ought to be dismissed by the Minister, atx changed' for men of more comprehensive faculties and mord'vigorous exertions. If the Minister wanted courage to do this, he was not tbp Minister, for such a country itt such times. Mr. Jackson, after remarking on the afflict ing and disgraceful accounts of a similar ascendency in the West Indies, and of the repeatedly yevictualling and rein forcing of Martinique and Gaadalnune, the importance'of the capture of which islands had ever been admitted to be of the utmost consequence, conelnded with expressing hij hopes, that the Directors would feel this subject as tt ought to be felt, and act upod.Ihat feeling. The Chairman Mr. Perry said, that it bad not escaped their attention, that the depredations bad been most scandalous, arising, as they apprehended, from ne glect somewhere that the CommapdGr hud been recalled some months past, and that he trusted -precautions would be taken to prevent the recurrence of the evil so justly complained of, . .. Mr. Rock, Mr. Jackson, and other proprietors, refer-ring to the late gift of 10001. to the Spanish Patriots, protested'against the illegality of' the Directors giving away the funds uf the Company, however meritorious the object, without the consent of their Constituents. ' The Court then adjourned ' l AW. to COURT OF KING'S BENCH. JUednrsiiay. Dev. 20. TMBlfO.'nE'NSOV. The plaintiff and defendant in this ease are both mer chants mideht in Liverpool and tbeartiunwai brought to recover a cOtopeltsntiwr ih damages for a crimiuarcomiec-tion with Hie plqiittiff'swrfei Mr. PaaItc, for the plaintiff, stated the case a below detailed in evidence, and accompanied tire statement with the usual observations on the magnitude of the injury sustaiucrfWy'thc Plaintiff. The defendant he said was well alite to-pay nny damages which the Jury might award, as he-hut! come into the possession of a large for tune and be trusted the Jury woald think IlliJ was a case uf exemplary damage ! inasmuch as the consequents of the conduct Uf the defendant had caused- a de rangement of mind in the plaintiff. The parties lived npon terms of intimacy and friendship, and it ■ from be Opportunity afforded by this intimacy, that the defendant-found menu to seduce tbe wife of his friend. The plaintiff Was married in the year 1708, and resided at the vHlnge of Billiugdon, about a mile from Liverpool-He went into-the town most days at tea in the morning and did nbt return until four to dinner. In the interval betweenfhose hours it would be proved, that the defen dant was constant i.i his visits to Mrs. Parr. But these were not the only visits he paid, for the plaintiff being a very jovial man, had the defendant constantly dining with him. Another circumstance of aggravation is the conduct of the defendaut was, that he was himself a marnci man, and had-children be trusted that the Jury wool think these circumstances of aggravation merited a se verer visitation than' ordinarily was called for. J 1 reflect, however, to the mental derangement of t
' - -586 •V NOTICE TO CORRESPONDENTS. We cannot u ,r rtake to advise L. or to interfere in the case of H.N. Correspondents should keep copies of their contributions. JVe do not answer for tluir return, in case of non-inser tion. POSTSCRIPT. LONDON, Saturday Morning, Sept. 13, 1845. The ' Gazette' of last night contains the appoint ment of the Duke of Leinster, the Ear! of Kenmare, the Earl of llosse, the Right Hon. D. R. Pigot, and the Right Hon. Sir Thomas Fremantle, Bart., to be Visitors of Maynooth College. The ' Gazette ' also contains a Treasury warrant altering the rates of postage between this country and Hanover, and of the Dnchv of Brunswick. Henceforward all let-THE EXAMINER. MISCELLANEOUS. The Owenites.-The Social Institution in John street, Tottenham-court road, is defunct, like its late prototype in the Blackfriars road. The building changed hands last week. Its members and finances have been slowly dwindling down till they are considerably in debt. The building, which is very commodious, is now turned into a Mechanics' Institution. It may also be men tioned that the Socialists about six years since expended about 30,000 . in buying land and building a hall in Hampshire. Harmony Hall the place w r as called, and the Owenite principles were there carried out to the fullest extent this has failed likewise, and in a few weeks' time all will come under the hammer to pay the loans granted at the commencement of the undertaking. The Awkward Squadron.-It seems the vessels of the Experimental Squadron are dreadful slow coaches. Some of them only go eight miles an hour. We propose that their names be altered to suit their intuitive pow'ers of slowness, for it looks like mockery to call a vessel the Sept. 13, 184 ters transmitted via the Elbe, may be sent paid or ?, s , . , . .. • . M fhannfiAn nf'tfco , n ,W ! Ulke y whe ll 0eS n0 faSter tllan S n, ht - Cab h01Se ' unpaid, according to the option of the sender,-the prepayment, however, - to include the postage throughout, British and foreign. The price of a letter, not exceeding half an ounce in weight, to be 6d. British -beyond that weight a proportional rate is established. Newspapers are to be charged one penny. The latter regulation will be found to he a great boon to the receivers in Hanover or Brunswick, the old charge having been half a Prussian dollar, or Is. 6d. British. Transmitted overland, through Holland, Belgium, or France, the rate of postage is not altered. The official declaration of the state of the poll at the Southwark election was made yesterday by the High Bailiff, when Sir W. Molesworth was declared duly elected. Sir Wi liam returned thanks in the same manly, honest strain, that has characterised all his addresses to his present constituents. The other candidates also addressed the electors. The Guardians of the Greenwich Poor-Law Union have resolved to send a deputation to the Poor-Law Commissioners, to urge on them the inexpediency of forming an asylum in that district and to request them to rescind their order relative to Greenwich. The'Nottingham Journal' of yesterday states that the hosiery and lace trades are slowly though almost imperceptibly declining. A strike for an advance of wages of the opera tive cotton spinners employed in about twelve or fifteen factories in Glasgow and the neighbour hood, took place on Tuesday last. The demands of the workmen, requiring an advance of from ten to fifteen per cent., according to the size of the wheels, were eventually agreed to by the masters. The Caledonian Mercury states that Lord Panmure was seized with serious indisposition last week, while at his shooting quarters near the Grampians. Accounts from Ireland represent the disease in the potato crop as prevalent there as in this country . The inauguration of the statue of Jean Bart, the famous sea captain in the time of Lou s XIV, took place at Dunkirk, his native town, on Sunday last, with great ceremony and splendour. The statue, which is of bronze and of colossal size, is erected in the great square of the town. A Madrid paper, the ' Heraldo,' says that the King of Prussia, during the last diplomatic con ference that took place at Stolzenfels, recommended the recognition of Queen Isabella by the Northern Powers. It is said that the King is desirous of establishing commercial relations between Spain and the Zollverein. The ' Hamburg Gazette' says that the province of Konigsberg is greatly alarmed at the high pro tective duties contemplated by the Zollverein. The adoption of such duties would be a death-blow to that province, which is depending solely on agri. culture. The Pacific Steam Company has just concluded a contract with the British Government between Valparaiso and Panama. From the latter place they will cross the isthmus to Chagres, and then be brought to this country by the West India Royal Mail Steam Company's vessels to South ampton. Saturday Night. By the arrival of a vessel at Falmouth from Buenos Ayres, with papers from the River Plate to the 21st of June, we learn that a modification of the Brazilian Cabinet took place on the 26th of May, which it is hoped will prove the forerunner of a more cordial understanding between the Ar gentine and the Imperial Governments than that which has for some time existed. A Privy Council was held to-day at Osborne house, in the Isle of Wight. The members of the Cabinet who attended it left town at half-past eight this morning by a special train on the South Wes tern Railway. Illness of Mr Wakley.-The 'Medical Times' states that Mr Wakley the Coroner for Middlesex, has had an attack of apoplexy, accompanied by paralysis, during his sojourn in the Isle of Skye. We suggest that the Grampus be rechristened the Tor toise, that the Jackal be changed into the Snail, and that the slowest of the lot be appropriately called the Omnibus, or the Chancery Suit. The Monkey steamer might take the name of Prince Joinville, out of compliment to his pamphlet for invading England, for we must say we never knew anything in nautical matters slower than that.-' Punch.' Diseased Potatoes.-The accounts from the country as well as from the continent speak of a disease by which the potatoes are generally affected. In many of the poorer districts of the metropolis potatoes were sold at 2d. for 41b. and 61b. last Saturday. Externally the disease indicates itself by a moss or fungus, producing a decomposition of the farinaceous interior. In the Isle of Wight, where the disease has occurred in its most virulent form, it was most prevalent in those crops which had been planted on wheat land, which had been manured with guano. The use of the diseased potatoes should be avoided. We perceive that Mr Herapath has addressed a letter to the Editor of the ' Bristol Mercury ' on the subject, in which, after describing the nature of the disease, he says that the longer the crop remains in the land the greater the injury will be. He concludes by the recommendation of the following process for preserving the nutritive part of the potato - After washing the roots, let them be rasped fine and thrown into a large tub or other vessel pour a considerable quantity of water, and well agitate and rub the pulp with the hands all the starch or fecula will, from its great weight, fall to the bottom, while the skin and fibrous matter will be carried away by the water wash the starch with one or two more waters, allowing it to fall after each washing spread it upon cloths in a warm room to dry-in this way about 20 or 21 lbs. will be obtained from every 100 lbs. of potatoes, and it contains as much nourishment as the original roots it will keep any length of time, and might be used with flour to make bread, pies, puddings, c., as well as farinaceous spoon meat. This is much better than throw ing away the diseased roots, and will furnish food for tens of thousands who might otherwise want it. Casting of tiie Wellington Statue.-Last Satur day afternoon a number of scientific and literary gentle men witnessed the casting of seventeen tons of metal at the atelier of Mr Wyatt, Dudley grove, Paddington. The bronze casting was for the fore part of the colossal horse intended for the Wellington statue at the west end. The hinder part has already been cast, and is now in progress of being finished. The immense body of metal was occasionally seen through the iron door of a huge furnace it was intensely brilliant and perfectly fluid. A deep run led from the door of the furnace, and conveyed the liquid metal to a large pit wherein the model was deposited. At a given signal an aperture in the front of the furnace was opened, and a hollow noise, like that from a volcano, was heard. The metal then, in a complete state of fusion, glided forth like a stream of lava, hissing and spitting as it went along to the model pit. A thick whitish smoke, like that from burning arsenic, and nearly as mephitic, entirely filled the atelier to the roof, making it dark-a darkness which might be felt below-while the red burning river of metal conti nued to send forth an almost insupportable heat. In about half an hour the whole seventeen tons had run into the pit in a continuous even flow, giving indication that all was right below. It will take five weeks before the mass can be sufficiently fixed and cool-a period of considerable excitement and suspense to the artist. It was curious that the two principal workmen employed on the occasion are Frenchmen, chosen by Mr Wyatt for their knowledge in bronze casting. They are two hearty fel lows, and stirred up the liquid metal with perfect non chalance, apparently heedless about its having originally been cannon taken from the armies of their country, in order to form a statue of Wellington. The National Gallery.-The National Gallery closed for the annual vacation on Thursday, and will not re-open for public inspection till the 27th of October. Arrival of Two Lions.-Two of the finest lions ever imported into this country have arrived within the last few days, on board the ship John Bartlett, Captain Bartlett. It is very rarely that adult lions are imported, and these are truly splendid animals. They were landed on Thursday in St Katharine's Docks, and conveyed to the Royal Surrey Zoological Gardens. These are the second pair of lions deposited in the gardens within the last few weeks, making seven full-grown lions now in this collection. The late Sir Fowell Buxton. -It has been re solved to erect, by public subscription, a monument in Westminster Abbey to the memory of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton. It is intended to limit the subscription to 21- 2s., that all who have admired the indefatigable zeal of this great man, in his efforts to extinguish the slave trade, may have an opportunity of expressing their respect to his memory. Foremost amongst those who have ex pressed their concurrence in the object are, the Bishop 0 f London and six other prelates, Lord John Russell, Lord Ashley, the Duke of Sutherland, the Marquises of Chol-mondeley and Breadalbane, the Earls of Jermyn and Chichester the late Earl Grey was also a subscriber. Advantage of Railways to the Fisheries The herring fishery is now in full activity on the Northum berland coast. Many boats from Newbiggin, Cresswell Blyth, and other places in Northumberland, are stationed at Cullercoats, from whence nearly one hundred boats sail every evening. Even at Berwick the effect of rail ways is felt, parties being every morning on the sands buying, to send to Leeds, Manchester, Birmingham, and London and one morning recently no less than five tons of herrings were dispatched by railway to those places. Asylums for the Houseless.-By the Poor-Law Act of last year the Commissioners have power to order parishes and unions, in the following places exclusive of Middlesex and the City of London , to be formed into districts, for the purpose of providing and managing asy lums for the temporary relief and setting to work of des titute houseless poor, who are not charged with any offence, and who may apply for relief, or become charge able to the poor rates -Liverpool, Manchester, Bristol, Leeds, and Birmingham. A constable seeing a poor crea ture wandering about may take him to an asylum, where lodging and food are to be provided. Irish Reapers.-A Glasgow paper says the number who passed through that city during last week cannot have been less than 15,000. The average rale of wages is Is. 8d. per day for women, and 2s. for able-bodied men. The late Fire at Quebec-Last Sunday, in accord ance with a pastoral letter from the ecclesiastical authori ties of the diocese of London, addressed to the clergy, sermons were preached in several churches of the metro polis on behalf of the sufferers from the recent fires at Quebec in May and June. Tiie Rival Arch eologists.-Another Archaeologi cal Association met at Winchester on Tuesday. The Marquis of Northampton was in the chair, and a consi derable number of noblemen, clergymen, and gentlemen were present. The Marquis of Northampton opened the proceedings. The Dean of Westminster read a very elo quent and ably drawn up paper on the general objects of the institution. The proceedings of the week were of great local interest. The Experimental Squadron.-The whole of the fleet forming the Experimental Squadron is now lying in the harbour of the Cove of Cork, where its presence excites the greatest interest. It is stated that during the cruise Rear-Admiral Parker was seriously unwell, being for upwards of a fortnight confined to his cabin by illness. Discovery of an Ancient Bible.-A copy of the first complete edition of the English bible, printed by Myles Coverdale, bearing the date 1535, was accidentally discovered, a few days since, in the false bottom of an old oak chest, at Holkham hall, Norfolk, the seat of the Earl of Leicester. There are numerous imperfect copies of this edition of the Holy Scriptures in existence, two being deposited in the Library of the British Museum, one in the Bodleian Library, one in the Cambridge Uni versity Library-in fact, many of our great libraries and public institutions, and many private collections, possess imperfect copies, but the volume just discovered is in every respect perfect. The noble proprietor of Holkham has had the book appropriately bound, and enclosed in an oaken box, and it now graces the shelves of his mag nificent library. Queen's College of Medicine, Birmingham.-At the annual meeting of the governors, held on Wednesday last, the Right Hon. Lord Lyttelton was unanimously elected Principal of the college. The Rev. Dr Warne-ford has signified his intention of placing in the hands of the Rev. Chancellor Law, the Rev. Vaughan Thomas, and William Sands Cox, Esq., the munificent sum of 500 ., to afford facilities to the institution of preliminary education especially available to the sons of the clergy and of the medical profession. A Noble Instance of Integrity.-II. Hunton, of Carlisle, who died in 1840, had, in the year 1822, while carrying on business as a manufacturer, been obliged, under the pressure of the times, to make a composition with his creditors, paying them seven shillings in the pound. He again commenced business, and by assiduous industry was enabled to realise a considerable sum. He died in 1840, and by his will directed that the balance of their accounts should be paid to the whole of his credi tors. This was immediately done by his widow, and on her death, in 1844, it was found that the first provision in Her will was for payment of interest upon those balances from 1822 to the time of death. These pay ments have just been made, amounting to a sum nearly equal to the balances. An instance of conduct so honour able deserves at least to be recorded.-' Cumberland Pacquet.' Punishment of a Seducer in Denmark.-A letter from Copenhagen, of the 24th ult., gives us the follow ing case, showing the laws of Denmark with regard to per sons who seduce innocent girls under promises of mar riage, which they afterwards refuse to perform -In January last M. Laurent Mikkelsen, a blacksmith, and Mademoiselle Oline Frederica Philipsen, a young mantua maker, an orphan, without father or mother, were affianced. In faith of this pledge the poor girl yielded to the importunities of her lover, and became with child by him. As soon as this was made known to the blacksmith he not only rescinded his promise, but would not suffer the girl to enter his doors. Nothing was left for her but, through her guardians, to institute a suit against her deceiver in the proper tribunal, which decreed that he should either perform the marriage contract, or pay, by way of damages, a sum of 2,000 rix dollars banco-about ll,000f. Against this decision Mikkelson appealed, but it was confirmed. Notwithstanding this, he refused either to marry conseque of the K cially ap courts. the 20th a sufficier and findir ducted hii Oline witl altar. T1 Court, the the marria ing the wi two partie who had lustily, i The cerem to depart f by instalm the lower opprobriou Duel P place at A Bourjolli, I of M. Dup Temper Prussian c ment to re' the value to promoti which, thi thanks to t The Pr of the deti across the pally to Br Works am noticed -reaching til three miles thirds of th it, and entei whom the' buted the in not allow Upon this was left in t the breakwa eight mortth waves, and done such coincidence, strong proof on the Frei Pluton, beinj ing Treport protected by The futi for this office the son of a guished part name of A In when the ins father's first into the wooc the United 1 number of hi Turning naux ' furnis - An ancie enjoyments lamenting the ing season, w delicious accosted by M basket of gam it had been s then, as my ba and, suiting th sixty years old him over to t front of the pal Discovery Accounts have 01 black lead m ton, at Leith R on board, and of powder for b head, loading, The Comet a
5nyrrtai iparliimrnt. HOUSE OF LORDS K'eitnesdav, June V . I, -- o ,..i b -a Bi t who did r.ot know Thiir Lords! i .'s judgment in too So.in cause of Nas. , ut. i. Hare, was torrevsising the uecriica of the court . low. The woo len stampio • hill was road a s ro d thee. The 1 otuii's of Linsdowne ur,4eutid a 'petition from i i individual named James Gurney, of the Kira's Coun ty t Belaud, praying the adoption of a plan lit laid in i' .t rt tot die more effectual amelioration of t'.ie poor-Adjourned. Thursday, June S3. Tilt STRATllMO.lL fLEttACE. At h .li-ya t two oViock there was a comtnittre of pri vileges on t! e Strathmore IVerHg.n when -Mr Wethcrell was heard out for the I'.llrpctl son of the deceased Lari-Alter li is the Lord Chancellor pave it as his opinion. It,at the Karl of Strathmore being a Itn.ish Peer, in both hi peerages, the alleged son was illegitimate to all pur-j os a of succession. The noble und learned Lord was r iy-ji.tted in his opinion by Lord Redtsdule, who con tend, ti that the kingdoms of England and Scotland had become one at die period of the union, when the law of England Hint be'Came t'.ie general law. The Eail of Shaftesbury as e'hairman then moved, 'That the right honourable Thomas Bowes had made out !iis claim to the title of Earl of Strathmore, but that tiie supposed sen of the deceased Earl had failed to make out lit claim which motion was agreed to by tnc house. The Scottish distillery drawback bill, the Scots malt bill, the Irish stock transfer bill, the white liming fishery bill, and the charitable estates' bill, as amended, were severally read a third time, passed, and messages to that sifevt sent to the other house. Vidov, June 29. Ti e 1 .ills of exchange bill, and the agricultural horse duty bill, were brought up from the Commons, and read first time. The wool importation till, the land tax commissioners bill, tiie Irish jail fees bill, and others, were read a third time, and passed. After a good deal of discussion on tiie London wharfs bill, it was read a third time, and passed.-Adjourned till Monday. Monday, July 2-The Royal Assent w as given by commission to the loan hill, the fir chequer bills bill, the Irish Treasury bill, t'ie Bank of Ireland, the wool importation, the Irish transfer of stock bill, the naval .stores bill, the Scotch e'istillcries and malt duties bill, tiie wool registry bill, the vagrant 1 tvs amendment bill, the county rates bill, the Justices of tiie Peace bill, the fur trade regulation bill, anl some private bills. Lord Da te withdrew the bankrupt laws amendment bill, ujo.i which the I,ord Chancellor intimated he should l irosrif bring in a bill upon this subject early in the next session of Parliament. PI.-DI.IC ECOKOOIY. The Earl of Darniey, pursuant to notice, rose to bring forward his motion on this subject. After some introduc tory remarks relatin'' to the advanced state cf the session. ai-.A Ids anxious uestre tu see economy adopted in alt the departments of the state, he entered into a long and de tailed statement of tiie different departments, and their respective olftces, wherein, he was persuaded, a great saving tu the country might he made. The Nolle Lord dweit for some time on tne distresses of agriculture, oh sewing that where the farmer, and tire agricultural in truest in general, were obliged to pay their rents out of their capital, without being able to realize any profit, dis tress was the natural consequence. He hoped some ef fectual remedy would be found to afford relief to the agri cultural inter, st of the country. He next adverted to tiie navy, and although he was desirous of attributing great praise to tiie Noble Lon at tiie hood of that department, for the active part he had takento effect economy, still 1 thought a further saving might be made. Tr.e Ncbl Iron! irien alluded to the army, the ordnance, the civil list, and to every head under which he thought a tion of the present expendifttre might be made and, up. oa th whole, he thought a saving to tiie country might be lately effected to the amount of two millions. The Noble Lord concluded by moving an humble address to hi Maj-sty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the expenditure of the count-y, with a view to economy. Tiie Earl of Liverpool considered that r.o effectual rc lief could be afforded to the agriculturists by leglslativ. -■..,1 l.J .t !h.V V, jab the public ot Eld,bW. that the ground near Regent' Bridge belonged tu the Baronet 'r He took .occasion to notice another instance of negligence on tiie par of gov-.minti.t, where the public interest was concerned. The revenue of Scotland, a-Ripunttog to £3,000.UOtt, had been transmitted to' this country tv certain bankers, at forty days. A friend o lfs had offered to transmit it at twenty, and to give Ex-chequer fills in advance, or any security that might be required. This, however, had not been attended to, and tec others having coins down to thirty days, the Chancel lor of the Exchequer had left the business in their hands, and thus a loss was sustained by tiie country. He cor., eluded by moving a resolution, declaring, that it appear ed to the House that great irregularities had taken place in connection with the building of the new Stamp .mice in Edinburgh, and paitituLtly in the appointment of the surveyor by u contractor, and in carrying on the works contrary to tiie opinions given by the Board of Stamps and the Board of Works, and in the purchase of the ground adjoining the said budding. Sii ,1. iWar oiibanks- explained the circumstances coll ated with the purchase of the ground on which the Stamp Otiicc hail keen built, and Ids offer of the same to government. The situation, he contended, was in vari ous respects more eligible than anv other that had been offered. The size of tiie new bui ding was at least one-third larger tlanTjumbteck's hotel, and laid out express ly for the business. The cost of tl e Hotel would have been £' lt 0, and tie alterations which would be necessary must have occasioned an additions,! ei arge of £'1500, making a total of i'991'0. The new building cost AylUO. He com-ilained of having been kept jr. town by this motion, when ic wished to accompany his femfiy to Scotland, and con cluded by lamenting tiie taste winch bed obtained in the present tunes for assiifing individual character. Lord A. Hamilton disclaimed nil intention of imputing to the honourable Baronet, or to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, any corrupt motives in what they had done. He, however, should vote for the motion, if his honoura ble friend pressed it to a division. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the question appeared to be, whether the Treasury ought, in tine exc. fM.minis VI- i ■ J itoi to be under-'11 stood iis giving any opinion ox tius subject. As a l'ri y I Councillor, he was bound to s-ervey but lie could ns-1 sure the Hon. Member, that any claim of her Majesty provisions. He thought that any speculative neesure oJy ternlsd to create the evil. Economy was the only mea-ure to adopt, and he was one of those who were de sirous of seeing it adopted, as far as the safety of tl.e country would admin His Majesty's Governmerit bad been desirous of reducing the expenditure of the country upon this principle. During the last yrar the estimates were £1,1109,000 lew than tie year before, which was u proof of the intention of his Majesty's Government but tie reduction of offices, dec. required deliberation. Each of the heads which had been touched upon by the Noble Xjprd would require one whole night to go into their mi-nutise u..d details. With regard to the navy, the Nolle Lord hail thought a specific number less than the number at present would be sufficient for the protection of tiie country-but the Nobie Lord did not seem to take into account that there was such a thing as wear and tear. No specific number of ships could remain stationary. If men did not die, ot ships rot in time of peace, there would be no necessity for recruiting or ship budding but unhap pily this was not the case, and to keep up II sail of the line we were consequently put to all the expcnces of dock yards and ship-building. He Lord Liverpool would not enter, at present, into the other statements of propos ed retrenchment contained in the speech of tiie Noble Earl, but he must bring into view one tiling which the Noble Bari seemed to have forgotten in hissweeping pro gress of economy, namely, that a great proportion of the expenditure of Lie army consisted in half pay and allow ances, which could not be reduced because guaranteed by the national faith. These fixed payments amounted to mors than the whole peace establishment of 1792, and would,, so long as they continued, prevent us from re ducing our military expenditure in the tame proportion ax we reduced tiie numerical force of the army. While lie -tated this fact, and called upon Noble Low's to mo derate their expectations, he was at the same time willing ciition of n work for which they were responsible, to sub- him, as they had become necessary by change of tnit tlcir own opinions to ihoso of a subordinate board.- stances, and tiie residence cf his Koval iiigbnes With readout to the choice he had made in the present in stance, of a spot for building the office in question, he shori'il not enter very largely into the subject, after tiie adcq uate explanation . iven by the honourable Baionc behind him. He couli, however, stats' , that he had de cided as he had done with great pleasure, as he under stood that the plan he had approved of would be subser vient to the beauty of one of the tirst cities in the world. Relative to the transfer of money, he had to observe, that as the only difference between t!' e offer of the honourable gentleman opposite Mr Maberly and the Bar.k of Scot land was a period of live days in the date of Ida bills, he ha.1 thought it but fr.ir to pvc the preference to the-latter, waieh had for so Ion# a period d. .2 the business with punctuality ar.d propriety. Mr Maberly explained the transaction alluded toby the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the honourable Baionet dir J. Marjori banks , in which he was involved. The Scotch remittances were cexierall v made at 60 and 40 days' date. He, however, had offeree! to government to do the same at 20 days' date. The Chancellor of the Exchequer then acceptedfthc oilir of the other parties at 35 days' date, thereby makirsr a loss to the public of 10 days' in terest upon three minions of money. He had not asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for any favour, but merely for fair competition. After a few words from Sir J. Marjoribanks, Sir O. Clerk, and Mr Hume, the motion v. B3 negatived with out a division. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE. Mr Hume brought forward l is promised motion rela tive to the expenditure of the country. The honourable member went into an elaborate detail of items in the va rious departments, pointing out various instances of ex travagance and mismanagement, and concluded by mov ing the following resolution That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, to the effect, that his Majes ty might be pleased to institute a minute inquiry imo the mode of collecting the revenue, and also into the salaries of officers, and that a vigilant superintendance might be held ever every branch of the public expenditure, with a view to effect o reduction in the same, particularly in the military establishments. The Marquis of Tavistock supported the motion, and denounced tnc Ministers as unworthy tbs confidence of the Ei. g or people . Mr Hunks, at considerable length, combated the argu ments of tl.e two preceding speakers, and moved as an uuicncmvnt that an address be presented to hi Majesty, assuring him that the House viewed with Mtisftction the measures that hud beet taken by government for u gene ral revision of the expcnc.s incurred in collecting the cus tom duties, and requesimg his Majesty to give directions for ia similar revision ro he extended to nil the other branches of the revenue, in order that the collection of tie same might be more economical ar.d efficacious that his Majesty dc also irtmated to cause an inquiry to be made into tiie various departments of the civil govern ment. The Marquiwes of Londonderry and Titchfield oppos ed the motion, and Lord Milton ar.d Mr Crecvy support ed it r, when the house divided-For Mr Hume's motion, W-Against it, 174. Thursday., June 28. A petition was presented from the brrwers of Dundee, praying the repeal of certain clauses in an act passed for the'iegulation of the sale of beer, and or.e to the same ef fect from Renfrew. Mr W ilberforce moved an address to his Majesty, pray ing him to provide some settlement for negroes tnat had would be duly considered. Mr Bernal, adverting to the question n6w before the House, declared his objection to granting the arrears to his Koval Highncns. ... Mr Martin supported the grant he considered the House pledged by its tormor vote. After soiiic observations from other Members, the Re port was agreed to, and the Bill ordered to be read a third time on Monday. Colonel Davies wished to know what was the estimated expcnces of the Coronation £1U0,090 had been trrart d, but to look r.t the preparations, he was convinced ,£500,000 was not sufficient to answer the purpose. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was persuad' d a small addition to the £100,000 already granted, would be sufficient. Mr Scr.rktt sa,ul, it was estimat?d that 150,000 specta tors would take seats to aoe the procession, at six guineas each. The proprietors of these stands were the only per-yor.s who would get any thing by the ceremony let them give up or.e guinea out of each seat, and the expence would be defrayed. On the Ovd r of the Day being read for receiving the Report on the Bill for auditing Eublic Accounts, Mr 51 aberly proposed a clause, which waa agreed toby the Chancellor of the Exchequer, ar.d r.diV.d te the Bill. Mo7tday t J'Jy 2. Lord Londonderry moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Duke of Clarence's annuity bill. Mr Buhcr was decidedly against the rant of arrears o i this subject. He was cLsirous of placing the Duke of ' Clarence on the same footing with the rest of the Royal brothers, ar.d therefore he would not oppose the annuity necessary for'that purpose but the Member for Aber deen hau clearly, m his opinion, shewn that £ 3000 was sufficient to dotnis, and unless some one should shew the contrary, and that £'6000 was requisite for that pur pose, h? should oppose that grant. Mr Serjeant Onslow defended the claim of the Royal Duke to the arrears, which the House was pledged to give circum-Jiigbncss in this country. Mr Brougham said, his sentiments on this sub ject were well known, and it was unnecessary he should repeat them but he wished now to advert to the important sub ject which had been discussed on Saturday, namely, the delay of her Majesty's advisers in making a claim jor her coronation. It v rs the duty of her Majesty's advisers to wait till that ceremony was llxc-d. The proclamation was gazetted on the 12th Jude, and the 23d saw the memorial forwarded to his Majesty thus or.ly eleven days was ta ken lor consultation und preparing tiie memorial-no great delay-especially when it was cotsideved that holidays intervening shut up many sources o intelligence from him though he had to acknowledge the great courtesy he had experienced in the British Museum. Lon! Londonderry said, he had not charged her Ma jesty's legal advisers with delay, but only compared their tardiness in making their application to the celerity which they expected in tire answer to that application. As to the 21-t May being the fiist. time this subject was men tioned, he had given his opirion even last session on this subject. She was then told that rt rented with the Crown to call her or not to the ceremony and that his Majesty would not be advised to require her attendance. He should also add, that a memorial was this morning re ceived by the Secretary ot JState from her Majesty, desir ing to be heard by her Counsel. This was submitted im mediately to his Majesty, and he was now prepared to state that his Majesty had, as a matter of grace and fa vour, but not rs one of right, given orders that her Ma jesty should be so heard by her Counsel. He thought this would prove the disposition on the part of his Majes ty to extend to the Queen every possible indulgence. Mr Brougham said a few words in explanation. The bill was then pass-jd, and oiderea to the I ords. On the order of the day for receiving the report on the extra post bill, Mr 'alcraft opposed it as inconvenient, and likely to interfere with the present establishment.-He was follow ed by Sir J. Yorke, Mr F. Lewis, er.d others. The House then divided on the bill, when the numbers were-For receiving the report, . . 31 Agvinyl it, ..... ,3 The bill was lost by a majority of -8 Mr Scarlett then rose to call the attention of the House to the poor Law amendment bill. He wished not to ex cite delate. but merely to state his reasons lor not pres sing the bill at this advanced riod cf the session, and to ask leave to withdraw it for the present. lie hoped that the measure would be attended nextSes sicn with a greeter degree of discussion. He would, at the same time, propose another Bill for the purpose cf re gulating and modifying the system with tne view parti cularly of specifying the moral claims for relief, which demanded attention, and of checking tire extravagance of management which was so generally felt. A waim dis-JUi PariLu.cn V.a sTJ, Yes. 4 OrurJ.d Fv , in continuation, observed, t It is precisely what has pas sed in the English Parliament that proves my doubts arc but too ti uc. We arc guilty of an infraction of the Treaty, and thus foreigners may justly interfere. Like you, Gentlemen, I am hostile to such interfe-rence, and to the visiting of our ships, and these arc reasons which demand, on the part of France, a reli gious observance of the Treaty of Abolition but it is my intention to enter fully upon this subject, when the question of the Colonies shall be before the Assem bly. Messrs. Benjamin Constant and Manuel, appealing to whut had taken place in the British Parliament, quoted Sir George Collier's Report, and mentioned the cases which have been proved before Committees of both our Houses. The Ultras took part in favour of the trade, and one of the most furious, Mr I e Fuymaurim, hud the audacity to say, tl at these cases were lies, as atro cious as they were absurd. The Minister of Marine also took upon himself to assert, that one of the most important statements contained in .Sir George Collier's Report was false because, forsooth, it appeared im probable to lus Excellency. Were we to look for ad ditional precis of the extent to which the Slave Trade continues to be carried on by France, we would not dcsiie more convincing evidence than the temper displayed by the Chamber of Deputies on this occa sion. A Committee, appointed by the Chamber of Depu ties to examine and report on the state of the Press, have come to a resolution that the e msorship ought to be abolished. 'I'lie ministry were, in consequence, said to be struck with consternation. 1 Much sensation was excited in the Chamber on hearing this Report. The Deputies impatiently thronged to be registered for he discussion before the sitting was adjourned, forty-ouo were inscribed to speak in favour of its recommendation, and thirty-five to oppose it. The Court of Peers have decided upon the accusa tions relative to the transactions of the 19th August. They acquit La my, but find Nantil, Mazian, Bey, and f I.avocat, Guilty, under the 87th article of the Penal Code, to which verdict the penalty of Death is attached. a.c-ut on all vi ssels in the Black Sea, says the sutne letter, is extremely injurious, and Russia will be the first to see the necessity of having recourse to much more efficacious means than mere remonstrances to the Divan. The arrival of Greek families, who seek in our country a shelter from the calamities which atHict their own, still continues. They consist, unfortu nately, however, of little more than fugitives, desti tute of all means of existence. They are received with compassion, and their countrymen who have been long established amongst us, subscribe largely for their support. pnfu ano Portugal. The advices from Spain are not of a nature t allay those apprehensions which the present condition of that country 13 calculated to excite. Indeed, the writers of some of the letters hold out the expectation of a po litical crisis, which it is impossible for the Govern ment, although supported by a large portion of the military, to avert. According to all the reports which have been re ceived respecting the state of the Peninsula, the whole of the Provinces, with the exception of Gallicia and Catalonia, appear to be very cold with regard to the new system. In the sitting of the Cortes on the 18th, a letter from General Quiroga was read, in which, after re turning thunks for the munificence of the Cortes in granting him a pension, he declares that he feels him self sufficiently rewarded by the approbation of his ser vices and that he shall want nothing as long as the Spaniards ere free. Several members, complimenting the disinterestedness of the General, thought his refu sal should not be accepted that regard should be had to his family, and some thought he had no right to re fuse, or to make himself greater than the Cortes, who had decreed this mark of national gratitude. The General's offer to renounce his pension was declared to be inadmissible. Colonial intelligence. Here is another dreadful effect of the insti- Letters and papers have readied London from Gib-Stations used by artful men, to work up others to raltar to ,he 20th ult. A great deal of bustle prcvail-critr.es, while they watcli the results, availing them- I ed there, in consequence of the activity and extent to selves of whatsoever succeenter into island and tiie Governor, we understand, had sent no-a sort of compromise with tiie Norwegian Diet, on tiie tice to this effect to the Spanish Government, contested question respecting the nobility. lie is wil-er of the 8th ult. augu.t ceremony. A Committee was appointed cu arrange this business and carry it into effect! The official returns of the population of this city have not yet been received but we have seen a state ment, which makes tiie numbers in Edinburgh and Leith amount to nearly 139,000, which is an increase since 1811 of 35,000. On Wednesday tiie Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council elected Dr. Andrew Duncan, jun. M. D. to fill tiie Materia Medica chair in tiie University of Edinburgh, vacant by tiie recent appointment of Dr. Janies Home to be Professor of the Practice of Physic. Tiiuisd.iy morning tiie last division of the 7th, or Ito al Fusiicers, marched from this city for EnglandL Tlte Edinburgh militia assembled on Tuesday at Dalkeith, for 21 days training and exercise. Tiie London, Leith, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Shipping Company's smack Fortli arrived at London on Tuesday last, after a passage of -18 hours from th Frith of Forth. The City of Edinburgh steam packet arrived at Blackwall on Saturday morning, having anchored tiie night before at tiie Nore. She performed her voyage in 55 hours and 43 minutes, exclusive of stoppages. Herring Fishery.-On Tuesday and Wednesday, there was caught by the fishermen at the port of Irvine, a considerable quantity of fresh herrings, of excellent quality, ana large size one boat brought in about 1800 on Wednesday morning. The whole sold to good advantage, being tiie first herrings taken tiler e tiiis season. There is a prospect of tiie fishing being good on tiie opposite coasts. On Saturday week the salmon fishers employed near Elclio Castle caught in their net a herring, wbieli mea sured two feet in length, and weighed four pounds English. A fire broke out on Thursday last, in a wriglrt'a shop in Paisley, during the exhibition of Mr Kent's aquatic performances on tiie liver Cart, and consumed all the property belonging to tilt inhabitants of throe ad joining houses. The property where the fire originat ed not having been insured, the owner was so much affected with ids loss, that he threw himself out of the window of tiie room where lie went to sleep, and was greatly injured. Mr Canrcit, banker in Glasgow, who died a few days ago, having no near relations, has left his fortune, with the exception of some legacies of no great a-mount, to two distant relatives, Mr Buchannan of Drumpellicr, and Mr James Moore, surgeon in Lon don, brother of tiie late Sir John Moore. Mr Moore gets the Galloway and Ayrshire estates, reckoned worth £150,000 Mr Buchanan, who is residuary legatee, is supposed to have got a much larger portion, having tiie Lanarkshire estates and the personals. As an instance of tiie remarkable drougiit this sea son, Lochlomond lias fallen fully seven feet perpendi cularly from the water mark and persons pass and re pass between two of tiie islands on stepping stones which have ton placed tiiere this week and of w hich there is no former vestige. cussion took place on the principle of this bill, which was ordered to stand over till next .Session and after routine husiness, the House adjourned. Tuesday, July 3. Mr Hobhouse presented a petition from an individual named Bcnkow, at present a prisoner on an indictment preferred against him by tiie Constitutional Association, and who remained in confinement in consequence of his not being able to obtain bail for good behaviour, although lie could get hail for appearance. Col. Davies then rose to present another petition from Capt. Romeo, complaining of the conduct of the Sicilian Government, and of the hardship iing to consent to the abolition of tiie order, upon con dition that an indemnity shall be granted to the suffer, ers, and that he shall have a right to ennoble hureaft. r any person who si lull render lignai services to the state. Naples, June 14. The strength if tiie Austrian army, which now oc cupies our turritcry, independently of the troops w hich form the garrisons of ail the fortresses throughout Naples and Sicily, is 25,000 men, who are all quar tered round this capital. Several brigades have taken positions at Puglia, Foggia, and Salerno, and in Ca labria. A strong division is cantoned in tiie Abbruz. zes. Paris, June 27. A person who was at Laybach, in intimacy with tiie Assembled Sovereigns, heard the Emperor Alex ander say, in an impatient and emphatic tone, which he rarely shews, in speaking of tiie Greek commo tions -' No! I positively will not meddle with them. What! Is it or.ly to depend upon tiie foolish enter, prize of a youth, to impose upon me the necessity of putting my fotces in motion ?' Letters from Vienna, of tiie 16th, communicate in-teliiger.ee from Bucharest of the 3d instant, with far ther details of he state of tiie Greek insurrection in that quarter. From a country where no gazettes or official reports are published, all intelligence must be viewed with distrust, and no statements believed with-A let-from a merchant at Havannah says, tiie duties levied upon tiie inhabitants of this Island by tiie new tariff, have been extremely injurious, and I find that I have a fair prospect of having tiie duties I have paid returned to me. The tariff itself produc ed such ill consequences, that it was only acted upon for a few days. __ B r _ imprisonment, and been captured by cur ships cf war whilst being conveyed lasses which lie had suffered, rs the rewind of the servi-as slaves, and ettcrwanls apprenticed, but whose term had cex rendered by him to the British army previous to our now or was about to expire. Agreed to. evacuatiofi of that island. The prayer of the petition On the report of the committee of supply being brought I was, that liis case might be referred to a committee for up, a lengthened conveisation took place respecting the investigation. rant of £20,00! to Genera! Desfurneaux. This was, _ Loid Londonderry would not oppose this petition being nowvver, after much febate, cut down to £5000, on the suggestion of Lord Burning. The claim was for the use of hospitals at Uuadaloupe, in the year 1796. 2'riday, June 29. Lord A. Hamilton presented a petition from the brew ers of Ayr, in Scotland, against the bill requiring certi ficates for tiie sale of bier. The noble Lord, after a va riety of observations showing the om-rcssive nature of this clause in the act, moved for a bill to repeal a clause of the act 1.2. Geo. IV. cap. 22, requiring accounts and to admit, that there existed peculiar circumstances in the 1 cettificates of the sale of beer. present state of the country, to itidui. us to reduce our expenditure as low as possible,-to make every exertion to economise. The Noble Earl concluded by proposing that alter tiie words an humble address he presented to his Majesty. tiie following amendment should be substituted for the Original motionto assure his Ma jesty that we have regarded with satisfaction the measures taken by his Majesty's commands for a general revision or expenditure in the department of the custom of Great Britain, and to entreat that his Majesty would be gra ciously pleased to direct a similar investigation to b? ex tended to ail the other brandies of the revenue, in order to render its collection rr.or economical and its manage ment more efficient. And that, for giving further relief to tbs country, his Majesty would be graciously pleased to direct u more minute inquiry into the several depart ments of the civ government, as well for the purpose of reducing tiie number employed, as with reference to the increased salaries granted during the late war, and since the year 1797, in consideration or additional lalour thrown upon individuals, and tiie change in the value of money. .And further, that his Majesty would be graciously leas ed to direc that every personal sivin j consistent with the public interest abt.il be effected in those more extended department of the public service which the country is o' lig-xl to maintain, and more especially in the military expenditure, by a reduction in the numbeis of he army, raid by a constant and vigilant supervision of all the de jartments of tiie State. When the question of die amendment was put from the woolsack. Earl Jrosvcnor gave the preference to the motion of his Noble Friend Lord Daruley , and insisted upon the practicability of tire economical reductions which he had recommended, and th . necessity of enforcing them under the existing distress of the country. After a tew words from L rd Melville, Earl Carnarvon, and Lord. Calthorpe, the amendment of Lord Liverpool was agreed m without a division. Tuesday, July 3. Ti e Duka of Clarence's provision bill was brought from ♦be Commons, also the Audit of Exchequer account bill, the aazrssed taxes composition bill, ana the metropolis palace bill. Wednesday, July 4 Several petitions were presented m favour of the bill for preventing cruelty to animals. Mr Broydan brought up from the Common the appro, rriat'on bill, the Custom-house officers relief bill, the lotteries hill, tiie Exchequer bills public works bill, and several other bills, which were read a second time. The ' husbandry horses repeal bill was read a second time. The I ulte of Clarence's further provision bt.'l was read a se cond time, and after some routine business, the House adjourned. HOUSE OF COMMONS. Wednesday, June 27-EDINBURGH TAMP OFFrCE. Mr Hume rose to bring under the consideration of the House the establishment of tiie Stamp Office at Edin burgh. 11 having been considered necessary that anew Stamp Office should be provided for this di partment ot tl.e revenue at Edinburgh, a person was deputed to that capital to inquire for a proper building, and this gentle man, in tiie course of his inquiries, discovered a house which he considered as well suited for the purpos'--a building well known, under the title of Pumbrcck's Ho tel, which was to be purchased for £T1W He commu nicated tl-is fact to Government but private influence prevailed against his recommendation, and in consequence of some i t ier recommendation. Government was induced After some conversation, tiie Chancellor of the Exche quer intimated there would be no occasion for the motion, it was therefore negatived without a division. On the resolution for Cl 535, is. for the payment of the officers of the Alien Office, Mr Hobhouse and Sir R. Wilson opposed it, on the principle of the oppressive na ture of tiie ulien act they declared it to be lepu.vrisnt to the feeling of every honourable man in the country. Af ter a lengthened conversation between Mr Hobhouse, Lord Londonderry, Mr.Clive, Mr Bennett, and ixmi Milton, tiie resolution was curried by a majority of 17. Dl'KE Or CLARENCE. On the Chancellor of tiie Exchequer moving for going into a Committee on the grant to the Duke of Clarence, Mr Creevy ro e to protect against the whole of this bill, which he declared to be ill-timed in its application, and unconstitutional in principle. The honourable member declared that tiie people had fce'n insulted, by the con duct he pursued towards an Illustrious I'ersonage. Alter such conduct tiie Royal Duke came but with, an ill grace to solicit money from the people. Mr O. ilankia supported the grant. Mr Harbord considered the Cjueen as much entitled to her arrears as tile Duke of Clarence. Upou tiie same prin ciple, £105,000 w ere due to her. Lord Londonderry considered all th se observations to have the edict which they were intended to have name ly, to create discontent out of doors. A conversation then took place between Mr Palmer, Mr C. Bathurst, Mr W. Smith, and other honourable members, when tiie committee divided.--.Ayes, 54-Noes, 24-Majority for the whole grant, 30. The house went into a Committee on the extra pest kill, which was ordered to be receiycd by a majority of 3. Suturilay, June S3. The following Bills wore read a third time and passed -The Hops Drawback Bill, the Isle of Sian Bill, the Public Service Bill, and the Irish Silk Bounties Bill. DUKE OF CLARENCE.-CORONATION OF THE QUEEN. On the Report of the Duke of Clarence's Annuity Bill being brought up. Sir R. Fergusqn said, he should give his decided ne gative to the grant for the arrears, and at the name time wished to ask if her Majesty was to be crowned ? The Marquis of Londonderry sard, an application had been made by her Majtsty some days ago but that the Law Officers, to whom it was referred, had not yet given their answer. As far as he was aware, there was no in tention tiiat her Majesty should participate in tiiat cere mony. •Mr Denman thought it extraordinary that no positive answer was given to tiie application of her Majesty, and that it should have remained unanswered from Monday till Saturday. Full time ought to be given to her Ma-I to assert her claims before the Council, he Alarquis of Londonderry was surprised her Mu-brought up. He must, observe, however, that after r.a~ turc consideration, this did not appeal to be a case in which the Government of this country could properly interfere. Lord l'. Ber.tinck could not say that Capt Romeo had any direct claim by services rendered the British army in Sicily. If he was net pah! sufficiently, he should have applied at the time to the governing au thorities in Sicily. After a few words from Mr Gouikure, Lord A. Ha milton, and Col. Davies, in reply, tiie petition w as or dered to lio on the table. Mr Wilberforcc presented a petition from a Colonel Wood, stating that in 179-1, he had raised a regiment of volunteers, with the expectation of promotion, but had failed of obtaining tiiat object, whilst tiie expence to which he had been put had ruined his fortune-praying tim house to afiord him relief, as Government had refused to take his case into consideration. Lord l'almcrston said, so far from Col. Wood having any reason to complain, he was considerably in debt to the public, and the fault of Government, if any, was that they had been too iudulgi lit. Ordered to lie on tile tabic. Mr Whitbread then brought forward his motion against the Constitutional Association, which he described ns a Bridge-street plot, set on foot by Attotnies, tor their own benefit. He concluded by moving, tiiat the Attorney-General be directed to enter a nolle prosequi on ail its pro secutions. Mr Bathurst defended the legnlitv of tiie Association, and believed tire Attorney-General had no right to inter fere. Dr Lushington supported the motion, and spoke against not only this society, but that for the suppression of vice. .Mr Wilberforcc defended the latter, and deprecated the-extreme licentiousness of tiie press, ns exemplified by Garble and others. Mr Denman condemned the society as unconstitutional. The Attorney and Solicitor Generals defended its le gality. Mr Brougham and Mr Scarlett maintained that it was unconstitutional, and therefore illegal. The latter ad mitted that he might alter liis sentiments, after hearing arguments on the subject 'Mr Whitbread declined pressing tiie motion to'a divi sion, ar.d it was negatived. The Lottery Bill was passed, after some opposition from Dr Lushington and Mr Bennett. The appropriation hill was passed, after a conversation on the proceedings of the session and then tiie House adjourned to Tuesday next. iHartttme Sintrlltgrnte. His Majesty's ship Bulwark having been paid off, on Saturday, at Chatham, was re-commissioned on Sunday morning, the 1st inst. by Captain Sir Mu.-ray Maxwell, K. C. B., and is to bear the flag of Ad miral Sir B. Hallowell, Commander-in-Chief of his .Majesty's ships and vessels in the Medway.-Kentish Gazette, Accounts have reached the Navy-office of the safe arrival of the following convict-ships at New South Wales, having on board 1,112 convicts, viz. -Maria, 156 Hebe, 160 Almtrrah, 160 Juliana, 160 Do rothy, 190 Prince of Orange, 136 and Caledonia, ISO of whom, it is gratifying to remark, only three died on the passage out, and one after being landed. On Wednesday afternoon the Redpole, 10, Captain Hay, sailed for the Mediterranean, in consequence of orders suddenly received on tiiat day. The Dispatch, 18, Captain Jervoise, is also to sail immediately for the same station. The present state of the contest carrying on between the Turks and Greeks in the Ar-out some internal evidence of their truth. It seems I chipelago, calls for an increase to our protective force probable, however, from these letters, that the horrible j i n that quarter, cruelties committed by the Turks on entering Bucha- We regret to find, that the Greek Ships of war, rest, when all the Greeks they could succeed in cap- j have, of late, become so indiscriminately bold as to turing were impaled alive, have awakened a spirit in provoke the chastisement of one of our Cruizers. Ac. the adjoining provinces of Bosnia and Servia, which I cording to letters received on Saturday from the may still find fhip, which caused her surrender, were received on Friday, at which date the embargo I and she has been sent into Zante. on foreign vessels laden with corn still continued. At the Annual General Meeting of Proprietors of tiie Sea Insurance Company of Scotland, held in their office here on Monday the 2d curt, the following gen tlemen were unanimously elected Directors for the en suing year. A dividend was at the same time declar ed payable on the 1st of August next EXTRAORDINARY DIRECTORS. James Bruce, Esq. Sec. to the Board of Excise. Duncan Stewart, Esq. of Glenbuckie. John Baird, Esq. of Camclon. Donald Macdonald, Esq. of Loch Inver. Wm. Watson, jun. Esq. Merchant, Oampbelton. Henry Jareiine, Esq. his Majesty's Remembrancer, Court of Exchequer. James Spittal, Esq. Merchant, Edinburgh. John Macftrlan, Esq. Merchant, Glasgow. Robert Smith, Esq. Merchant, Edinbuigh-II ugh Cowan, Esq. Merchant, Ayr. Richard Duncan, Esq. Banker, Glasgow. James Shearer, Esq. Surveyor. General Post Offict. •William Inglis, Esq. of Middleton. •Thomas Allan, Esq. Banker, Edinburgh. •William Wedderspoon, Esq. Perth. ORDINARY DIRECTORS. R. B. Blyth, -Merchant. Alexander Lawiie, Gazette Office. George Small, .Merchant. Robert Gordon, late of Jamaica. Alexander Stevenson, Albany Street. Andrew Pearson, Excise Office. George Mylne, Accountant. •John Sanderson, Hunter's Square. Josiah Maxton, Saddler. Alexander Henderson, Merchant. Adam Anderson, Merchant. Alexander Wight, Banker. •Colin Macnab, Great lung Street. •John Archd. Campbell, W. S., and •James Marr, Merchant, Leith. WILLIAM BRAIDW OOD, Jun. Manager. ROBERT GIIISON, Secretary. Those marked thus • are new Directors. Coronation ©inner at Clgin. S EVERAL Gentlemen, in Elgin and its Vicinity 9 propose to DINE together, on Thursday the 9th inst. to celebrate the CORONA TION of our Most Gracious Sovereign, and will be happy to be joined by their friends and neighbours. A Subscription Paper, for such Gentlemen as choose to put down their names, will be found at Mr. Isajvc Forsyth's Shop, until Monday the 1 Qth inst. at two o'clock, when a Meeting of the Subscribers is requested, at Maclachlan's Inn, to appoint Stewards, and otherwise arrange for the occasion. Elgin, July 9, 1821. DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE lionOim. induce turn to lect this spot, was t! at o?a Mr John ston, merchm t, Edinburgh, who was a friend of an ho nourable Baronet now present and the work proceeded cr. the authority of i ord Melville, tiie Lord Advocate, tail Mr Johnston, merchant, the friend of tiie honours-i. Baronet, contrary to the opinion of the Hoard of f-t-.mp . This he t Mr Hume contend,,1 was tn instance cf grass ij.phat of public ivc uu-y. To •! or Table 'll -.-.ty's Minister! gave Royal Master, and they certainly could not advise that her Majesty should share the august ceremony. It was only as matter of favour that her .Majesty could lie crown ed and tiiat favour they could not advise their Royal Master to confer. Mr Denman observed, it would have been very unbe coming in her Majesty's legal advisers to have put for ward her claim, until it was ascertained whether tiie co ronation would take place or not. The same appearances were seen a year agoi when it was not quite certain, whe ther they were for tiit coronation of the King, or the de gradation of his Royal Wife, He still complained of the delay which took place in answering the memorials of her Majesty. Courtesy, it all events, should have dictated a diff erent line of condui t, if the exalted station of a Queen of England could nut command attention. Hecoultl hope but rattle from the Council to whom her Majesty had ad dressed her Memorials. Mr Scarlett wish'd to know if her Majesty claimed to be heard by counsel, or hot ? There was only one in stance in wnich a Queen Was r.ot crowned. The wife ot Charles the First, was tot crowned, because she was a Catholic and in the thi ti state of the times it would i a c been dangerous tointvi.'.iuce a t'xpedi priest to perform tl.e c-.! ...r.t ft. tot. llie Treasury, however, purchased with prompt pay ment all that was offered. The armaments were pro ceeding with great activity, particularly in the arsenal, and new fortifications were erecting on the Bosphorus. From tiiis it would appear, that a visit from the Greek fleet is held by the Divan to be a possible contingency. Public meetings have been held in most of the large No fresh intelligence from the Morea had been rect iv-l towns of tiie kingdom, to consider of the best means ed at Constantinople. Information had arrived of the Q f celebrating the coronation and iamany places sub. proceedings at Smyrna, which led to an immediate or- I scriptions have been entered into, as it is intended to tier from tiie Turkish Government to the Pacha of Ccsa- J p u p 0 ,t as a g a y 0 f general festivity, rea to take the city underion of the respectfully but firmly, resolves itself into a question Jtoffi tl t London Sa rtte. Council Office, Whitehall, June 27, 1821. These are to give notice, that all such Peeresses or Widows of Peers of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, as intend to seethe solemnity of his Majesty's Royal Coronation in Westminster-Hall, do forthwith send their names to the Right Ho nourable Lord Gwvdir, Deputy Great Chamberlain of England and such of them as desire to see it in the Abbey, do send their names to the Right Honourable Lord Henry Howard Molyneux-Howard, Deputy Earl Marshal of England, to the end that places may be provided for them. JAS. BULLICR. 'Hus Gazette also contains a notification from the Deputy Earl Marshal, that no tickets for the Coro nation will be issued to Peers, Privy Councillors, or others, who shall not have signified to him, on or be fore the 7th of July, their intention of attending at the said solemnity. Turkish power, has been, recommended by Jus.nuf Aga of the Janissaries, who is well known for his fi delity and prudence. This experienced man repre sented that this was the only means to attach the Jams saries and on the l£th of May, it was resolved to or ganize the Ottoman army cm the. European footing. of constitutional law, touching the prerogative of the crown In the Court of King's Bench, W. Floycr, Esq. convicted of certain publications against Sir Robert Peel, arising out of an election contest for the borough of Tam worth, was sentenced to imprisonment for three ... - , I - - ' .wi.im.lv aw 1 . w Another measure, which may be extremely im- mo , h in tiie King's Bench prison, a fine of ElOOO, portant in its consequences, but may lead to unplea- and w find surctics f or five , cars , l!mje f in £ 20 00, and two others in £1000 each. sant differences with the Maritime Powers, is, ' The summons sent to all the Piratical States of Barbary to join the Sultan's fleet, with all the ships which they can equip.' In the summons addressed to these States, every tiling is said that can inflame fanaticism and tempt cupidity. The English Ambassador has already declared that his Court cannot permit the ships of the Barbary States to come into the Ionian Sea and that all the ports of the Ionian Islands would be shut a-gainst them. f ' Tiie admission of representatives of the Janissa ries into the Divan, a circumstance unparalleled in the Turkish history, has excited an extraordinary sensation here. The consequences of it are incalculable FOREIGN INTELL1GENCE. .France, drrntanp, 5c. In the Chamber of Deputies, on Tuesday last, the proposition of the grant for the maintenance of tile Nava Forces, led to a brief discussion upon the prac tices of France in respect to tiie Slave Trade. Gene ral Foy inquired whether the ships destined to pre vent. tiie felonious and detestable traffic in slaves, had discharged tiie duty assigned them in an exemplary manner?-Europe, exclaimed tin General, says No! -M. 'Davotgtr do Heur.xmc replied. 1 The A quarrel took place at Chatham on Wednesday night between parties of the marines and of the 86th regiment, in which, before it was quelled, several persons were severely hurt, but we understand that no lives were lost. An attempt was made to renew the quarrel on Thursday night, but frustrated by the ener gy of the Officers of the Garrison. The Coroner's Inquest on the bodies of Mr. Do, naidson and Mr. Whitaker, who unfortunately lost their lives at Sunderland bridge, as mentioned in our last, brought in a verdict of Manslaughter, caused by furiously driving, against James Auld, tiie coachman, and made a nominal deodand upon the coach and SOLOMON'S LODGE OF FREE MASONS, FRASERBURGH. T HE R. W. Master and Office Bearers of SOLO MON'S LODGE, wishing to shew their Loyalty to His Majesty King George the Fourth, on the happy occasion of his Coronation, which is to take place on the 19th of July current, hereby invite all the Brethren of the Lodge to come forward, in their .Masonic Clothing, on the said 19th of July curt, by eleven o'clock in the forenoon, to meet tiie R. V. ar.d Office-bearers, in their Hall, to walk in Procession, and afterwards to Dine ar.d spend the Day in a social manner, as becomes Masons. WILLsi. M KAY, Clerk. NOTICE TO CREDITORS, And Sale of BUILDING AREAS IN REGENT STREET. II OSE having Claims against JOHN MAY, . -Mason in Aberdeen, are requested to lodge tiie same, with affidavits thereon, in the hands of Alex. Al lan, or James Nicol, Advocates, betwixt ar.d Friday first, in order that'a correct statement of Mr May's affairs may be made up. Those Creditors who shell have lodged their claims, with affidavits, by that time, will receive an interim dividend, on applying as above, on tiie 2Uth curt-And, There will lie sold, by public roup, within the New Inn of Aberdeen, on Friday the 3d day of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, that LOT of GROUND, mea suring 10U feet along tiie South side of Regent Street, and t feet, or thereby, along the Iioad leading from Castichill to the Quay, fronting tiie Canal Basin, and having tiie advantage of two f onts. From its central si tuation, and vicinity to tile harboure it is well worthy tiie attention of Builders, or those wishing to lay out their money to advantage. If not disposed of in one Lot, it will be afterwards exposed in separate lets. Also, one equal undivided Third Part or Share of tha WEAVERS' SHOP, in Regent Street, presently occu pied by Messrs. Leys, Masson, and Co. renting £27 yearly. The Articles of Roup arc in the hands cf the said Alex-Allan, and'Jamcs Nicol, t whom i .unding purchasers may apply for farther particulars. Aberdeen, July 10, 1IJ2F. NOTICE TO CREDITORS'AND DEBTORS. A LI. those who have Claims against the subjects of WILLIAM COCK, in Upper Crichie, are desir ed to lodge them, in the course of this month, properly vouched, with John Mitchell, in Mill of Fortrie, that the state of liis affairs may be known and those indebted to him are requested to pay in their accounts to the said J. M. within the foresaid time, to prevent cxpences. NOTICE TO CREDITORS AND DEBTORS. flic Lnglish Ambassador, Lord Strang ford, who I 10rses , Auld was immediately taken into custody, had his first audience of tiie Sultan on the 18th May, and commitlcd to j ai i, f, r trial at the next assizes, was received with extraordinary honours, and some Wc UI derstan d, that au increase in tiie Irish, as degrading parts of the ceremonial forms omitted. Gc- we as EngUah Peerage, will take place immedi-nerally, when the Ambassadors conic to the middle a tely. gale of tiie Seraglio Orta Capussi tl.ey are desired to population of Sheffield is at present 65,265 dismount, and invited to sit down on a bench, which bcing an ncrcase since 181 , 0 f 12,044. Theincrease is the usual scat of the Imperial executioners and hung- I between 1S01 and 1811 was 7 176. men here they are generally made to wait an hour be fore they are admitted into the second Court. Lord Strangford did not stop at all, hut passed the bench. The Sultan himself answered liis speech, which is usually done by the Grand Vizier. A private letter from Vienna, dated June 16th, €Dtnburgb. Tuk Coronation-At the meeting of tiie Town Council on . Wednesday, it was resolved that there states tiiat it began to be generally believed in tiiat ca- should lie an illumination throughout the city on the pital that the troubles in the Levant could only be evening of the 19th inst. in honour of his Majesty's appeased by tiie intervention of the neighbouring Coronation and also, that a grand entertainment Vvtvras. The ei,ib.trao laid be the Tnrklsli Govern i tliunid take place that day, in ce'cbrai'trn of t! LI, Persons having Claims of Debt against lie . late Miss ANN Yt HV'TE of Keith, are hereby required to lodge the same, properly vouched, in the hands of Mr V. Rainy, Schoolmaster of Drumbiade, before the 23d inst. and those indebted to Miss Whyte, will please pay what they owed her, to Mr Rainy, on or before the above-mentioned day. July 9, 1821. STRAYED, FROM SEATON, On Sunday Evening last, the HOUSE DOG. A Young I .arge BLACK DOG, of the Newfound land breed all black but a part of his fore feet, which are greyish or brown and a white part on this breast ears, and long bushy tail, uncut answers to the name of Bill, or Billy. Any one detaining him after this, will be prosecuted as the law directs and any one bringing him to Seaton House, or giving notice where he may be found, will o handsomely rewarded. He had a strong Leathtti Com in. f. ram Mm by, bt i ro lx.ro,'. whit r
• . tv -.t ?. . • . .rJ-f - J r •. M, w. 1 - N V i ►f yf 5N -U .w, .v, . . ','■ - . ■ .... - _ . -■y ■ I-fSaJ ,21? £ ,. _, 0 . ,f~ A , . . • ' .'V. . .■►. -v, A. 'j.Gj ly.j frx ft'v !#• ml v., . jM ■ , j , , ! ' •tiff - .-' ,X4 e W .ii l4Aik-y.ii 1L~ k t. wt-ow. .2 r.-. • . tanully 1 This uaTttko veulickss, told w t!i ri errors ar.-l force and eie rance, and It is, t e-f-V.ews i i Brood Street, Jtdff 4. lb 4 ?!. This Day arc published, With Two Engravings, Price 3s. MEMOIRS or THE CALEDONIAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, No. X. Containing the following, among many, interesting ar-ikI .s Mr Hav on the Application of Steam to the heav ing of Forcing-houses, with a plot .-An Account of the Russian Chiccory Plant, ana of the Artificial Coffee . 15y l r in. Ilowison .Air S ug on the Advantages of the Shallow Planting of Fruit Trees.-Mr Joint Young • on the Preparation of Soporilrc Medicines from Garden , LcUuqe.-Mr James Kirk on the Soil best suited t Peach 1 Yr' s -Mr John Dirk on Grafting tire Ribsion Pip-fir. - Mr Adam Mcl.ose on Sca-Caie and Asparagus.-Mr 1 John Mutiny o.i Improvements of the Conservatory. j Piinted for Aitcrnnald Cokstadk end Co. Edin-bu.gh of w hom may be had, the saine Vt'oik, Nos. I. to . i X. with engravings, price IL. each. r 3' lIE CATTLE SHEWS for the present year arc to be bold as follows, v?5 . District -, of A RERDLLN and O A HOCII. at Invc-rury, upon Tuesday the '.list day of July. 5f , ,, ... ., 'Districts of ELLON and DEER, s.t Dlfotr, upon if by the reflection, that l e likewise ssmrcsm tns fervid , ... ... • , u . j e oqucnce r.d fruitfulness of u.m.-oor.tk.n In w! ch her 1 r rm-r. r t 'V i hmvtt v . n , j writors are eminently list in . u shi d in the annals of Polite ! Districts of . .Ice rnd HiN . LA, at J hint hi, j Literature. -Nexv d' n ihlit Ji ipi i ?c. No. IV. uvoii J esi.ay ■ .e . t The character of hit. Aulfin himself is iiowerfifi' j Lower District given and that of the wild and impassion--d, hut kind j and good-hearted Lady Gertrude, has a off , shucks, I if not of originality, about it. T ! lady is awfully in pvesfivc and i . jpy period during which they may be ! K ngdom, without their LoidshinV leave lit ers who may wish to remain abroad beyond nal leave, should take care to apply for a renewal there of, in due time, so that such application may be received l dav of August. i r v 1 N. INC A If e death scene of t iis envy not Lie feelings of those who can read it unmoved.-W eonciudc, with 'merely returning our thanks to the author, of whatever sex, lor the yjeasurc which we have receiv'd from a I - k so moral, w-.il -v.'iitten, ai d d?. ply interesting.''---Dai i-burg jMagn.hic far April liUl. Mar.y of the incidents i f t e story ere of no simple but arc strong materials, v.h'ch have been used style and general sti tiinent tl.or to lie a lady, and one pos-s dug a mil d of no erdinarv at.tair.mer.t e.r.d power.''-dbiuurgh Monthly McgcAun jar May. Printed for Oliver nod Boyd, Edinburgh. Low.. -.. -iO'.NIEL, at Bridge of Alford, upon Tuesday the #th of August. And, - .. th kind with powerful f hcer. Tl ni this work indicat? the The Upper District of ALFORD A KINCARDINE O'NIE.L, at Gardens'iitl, upon Tuesday the 4th day of September. N.D. This tr e District comprehends the parishes cf Crct'iir, GletigirJr.it, G'cnmutch, Glcn-iuerci. Tt Rich, Glrituuncr. Bit r, Lnniphmnian, the t uris ■ ' the parishes cf rath don and Tat land clave the tsAicg, and the' part of the parish of Ca-Iraih, in the county of Aberdeen at this Office prior to the expiration of the former leave, as t.n'jess very special circumstances can he stated in any j particular case no ilv.lf-pay can be paid for ar.y turiod DINE 1' NbhiMice abroad winch niiuii not be covered by their Ijordships' leave. All applications, citlier for original leave, or for a re newal thereof, whether made through Agents or other wise, must be written by the Officer himself, and addres sed to the Secretary of the Admiralty. Officers who may not employ an Agent, may have the public fees on their 1 'tiers of leave deducted from their Half-pay. on specify ing their desire to that effect in the letter asking for the leave. . i t u,. c_ that she has a large Stock on hand, which he can with . vord their ori- ' confidence recommend, and will be sold on the most mo- j J derate terms Also. Superior SPEECH BEER. Gul'owgatc. Jut Ik lfi'JL C MACEDONIAN ASYLUM for SUPPORT-. INU and EDUCATING the CHILDREN of SOLDIERS, SAILORS, and MARINES, Natives of Scotland, who have died or been disabled in the service f their country, and of indigent Scotch Parent resident in London, n entitled to Parochial Relief. Cross-street, Hatton-gardcM. Notice is hereby given, that an Election of Six Bovs, to be placed on the Foundation, will take place on the liriit Thursday iu December nest. The children must not be under seven years of age on the day of election, nor above ton at the time application is made for admission. In the case of Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines, the father must have be?n born in Scotland, and nave died, or been dKaSled, while in his Majesty's service. Applications on behalf of Candidates to he transmitted, post-paid, ad dressed To the Corporation of the Caledonian Asylum, London,' on or befort the 1st of September next, in or-TUUday h published. In L.V.'.o, price THE AYRSHIRE LEGATEES n , THE PRINGLE FAMILY. By the Author of Annals of the Furish, Sr.c. Printed for M'ilzjam Blackwood, Edinburgh and T. Cadf.ll, Strand, London. Of Xi'horn may he had, ANNALS of the PARISH or, the CHRONICLE of DALMAILING, dutiug hc dlirist.-y oi ike Reve rend Micau 13al viiiDijEit. WTittcii by hims.'lf. 12mo. Is. This day is published, In one large volume 8vo. with 3 Plates. Price L-s. 1 71L E M E N T 3 of ifm PHILOSOPHY of -A PL A NTS c o n t aiding S'SSI to ' I ran W g OF SOENTIHCTOTANV , . h , ' IS r Cl ,,,, Application m.ir a o be transmitted to the core ot the following Ajjenu oi' wiwoi, or.tl at the Institution in London, m.iy be obtained primed forms of Petition, viz. At Edinburgh, Lewis Gordon, E p Deputv-Siceretary of the Uigiiland Society of Scotland -Aberdeen. Meters. Alexander Brown ar.d Co. Booksellers j-El 'in, Isutic Forsyth, Esq. -.Inverness, Lachlan Mackintosh of Raigmore, Esq. s-Glasgow, Benjamin Mathie, Esq. Secretary of tlie Glasgow Highland Society -Perth. James Metuies, Esq. Secretary of the Forth Highland WicietjrInvcratv, John Campbell, E q. Sherifl-Clcrk of the County -Campb-dtown, Baillie HuethMackay Po.-trce, John M'Pherson, Esq. -Dumfiics, John Syme, Esq -Montrose, Janies Crawford, Esq. -and Shetland, William Mount, Esq. M. S. METCALFE, Sec. FARMS AND CROFTS, T 1 LKT, On the Estate of OHROK, parish of DeViihit. T HEY consist of various sizes, from 9 to 100 Acres, ar.d will be divided so as to suit intending oricrers-including WESTRCRN, possessed by Paw Af Do. CAUSE tV r A VEND, CHANCE INN, Part of GREENDEN, Part of Do. Part of Do. KEPPLK MOSS, .MAINS of SHIELS, DVKEHEAD. ... SOUTH COLPNA, 1'art of Do. . LESLEY TAP, SILVER DYKES, DAM HEAD. ... ■ DUC'KLK PEEL, EGGHEAD. HOWLANDS, John RleMc'l. Wm. -M urrey. James Smith. John Mutch. Wm. Chari.3. Peter Mutch. James Cla-k. Gettui '. this. Aiv m ts t 6lr Y, -aiaa v ord yts n V.av,,y t C i e . . 11. . V'R , ' Kh'. jc Ca m il Mr 
Its Whitecrols-Strcet, tbe Sttrgem's Sign near Red Lyon Market, St. Luifs, formerly Cripplegate Purijh L've h G. WEST, Surgeon, who curcth all the Symptoms of the French Dif 1 rr.npcV, whether ftefh contract ed, or ot long Continuance, by i new, fpeedy, and fuze Me thod And - Recent Clap in Dr. R. NELSON's long-experienced CouPovn Or never-failing Anti-Venereal EleSuary The like of which is not 'to be met with. For the true Cure of frefti Venereal Injuries o all the lurking Reliekt or Remains of old mm MP fhtUat or ob ftinatsfoever they may bet for it immedixttlf puU ft Stop tft thtir Pcogteft, and entirely, ana, at it vets, inftantiy Mti me and car ries off all the filthy, poifonoui Infeccioa, went- away the varied S Tnptonu, and 1 ftrenethcni the T ANTI SYPHILICON Tbe onlyport and mojl infallible Cure in the Vniverfe, for - the Venereal Disease. From the flighteft Infeflion, to the moil extreme and deplorable Degree of it, even when the Blood and Juices are tho toughly contaminated with its malignaut Vitus, aud the very Bonis are affefted with it. Frcfh InfcQioos call'd CLAPS, with all their attendant Svmpj ff by it in a few Daysj nent, in Knowledge of a Bedfellow. And as for fuch unfortunate t Crfons, who by ncrieft of chemfelv• , or for want of he timely Ufe of my Ncver-jfaiUug Remedies, lie ut.der i he mifc.abfe Circumflancc# • f Vi'ulent Runnings, Old j cctt. Heal of Urnc, Coi-M Tcfticlcs, Ulcer? in the Nofc or Thr .it, Daily Noftu r 1d r Pams,_ - • - i urcdgliicni m rnui imhuiw •m few Day?, without Confine- Cunfequences of leaving either F rnt, H, drancc of Bufincr S hin a. This it doe. in a Way fo rsguL t Bedfellow, and Urine, and with a Dofc,each Time, fo fmail and pleafant, the unfortunate r u... - 1 ■ - ■ n - - n toms, tho ever fo fevere, are intirely carried off ar.d fo as effectually to prevent the Blood and J ilar and gentle, both by Stool illy ted with any remaining Relicks, uicc5 from being tain on oue Hand, or a feminal Gleet, tiers, Buboes, Shankcrs, '1 u.i.uy Nofe ot Thr.iat, Daily 'r Nuftura- _ Rympto us at enJi-g th'S DifVe npcr, I cure according t approved Method now in Prafi ice. , . Tt _ N.B. In the Paffige going to Red Lyon Market, by the T mbcr-Mcrchmts, U a back Door, a Surgeon's Sign hanging over it, that leads to niv Houfe. Advice and proper Remedies in all Cafes of Surgery. Ibe mojl ■wonderful chanting and Jlrengthtning DROPS jer ait Sorts of Gleets aWSeminal Weaknesses, and Imbecilities of the Generative Parts and Faculties, preventing Mijcatriages in Women. And t elea fe and ftrengthen the Reins, Kidneys and Bladder cure weak Backs, Sitanguanes, Gravel, and Stoppage oi the Urine and tor which it hath gain'd fuch Repute, that near i ooo Bottler fcave been fold fiucc April 1734, that they were Gift publim d. Thelc incomparable DROPS, which for the xbovelald Oifordcrt are not to be cquali'd in the whole Art of Medicine, were piefcribed by the laic Dr Ratcliife, for a certain n e Lord, who ior a long Time h-d been vexed with an old, obfticaie Gleet and Wcaki-efr, of which he wa cur d hy them in a tew D y , beyond all EspcRatiim, alter he hid hem hauafaM with Eleftuarics, Bolus's, Pilh, Potions, InjefHons, and a hundred other Medicines, for mau Mtn ths together m vain. The Apothecary who prepared them for nimactozding to the Doftoi's Freferiprion which ne has ftill upon his File has made Ufr of them ever finer, to Numbers of People, in the very worft of Gleets, fcmir-al and genital Imbecilities and Infcrtuitiei, Pains it the Back and Reir.s. Difo der of the Urine and Gravel, ole. with tbe utmoft Succcfe and Safety as a'fi. in ail VeakncTcs from Straiip as well asVcuctcal Rrlickv, cx tfiv Coition, Self-p'dliitum, femi nal Emifitous in the Sleep, Fall?, Blow ami the like tv. both Sexes. And as they have never fiuce fail'd him, even in Calcs thought t be incurable, lie now, for ge c.al Good, hus inade thcin publick j lie m Ren or l U ji.oo. caen, mo ior me us are worth their Weight in Gold, more cfpeciaily, - _ ----- -them generally cures, even in the moft draining Gleets and grievou Relaxations aud WcakudTes of the Seminals and Genitals that are. Not can there be prepared, by any Att or SktU, a more cleaufing and healing, or a mure ftrengtnening and invigorating Medicine, o one tnatcan more effcRually cure Inipotcncy or promote Fertility, than this, as every one tnat but once tries it will fay, hy their fuu -finding the Difference between this and other Remedies for it wij do motcin one Day, towards reftonug in thefe Weak effos, than a others ran in ten, at.d is of fo oixoborat ng a Nature, that it may b intirfly rcly'd upon for curing pcrietlly and firoiiy, without Fear o' a Rc'.vi.ic, even in the tcndeiclt Cuiritnution', wihich can hardly bt fa id f any rher McdcciuC and it is withal fw elegantly pleafant t thr Palate, and fo agreeable to tbe Stomach, that the uiccft Pcrfo is d' l ghti'd with it. Mt. Weft Goldfmith, that tried to fell thefe Drops, being lately d'ad, they iteqiuv f ld only at Ms Sun in-Liw's, M - Johnfnn, BaVcr, at the Srg of the Set'cn Stars in Vere-Stxeer, near Clare Market, ready eal'd up witn Dhttiium for auy Melfcnger, up r osiiy asking for a Buttle ni Drops, and paying 3 s. 6 d. To Mafters of Ships, Shopkeepers Country Dealers, See. Dr. ROCKV TINCTURE. Which givestnftant Eafe in the moft violent TOOTH-ACH, in a ftiurt Time cures tin Scurvy in the laTJMS, at.d makes the fuulcft TEETH as white as Ivory. Is to be had at his Houfe, the Sign of the HAND and FACE in King's AtHis Court, Ludgate Hill, over againft the London Punch Houfe, neat Fleet Ditch at the Effex Serpent in King's Street, Covdnt-Garden at Mr. Abh ex's Priming-Ruufe iu Canterbury and by the Men that carries the News. Price One Shilling a Bottle with Directions It is impoflible to enume rate the many fujptifing Cures performed by this inimitable Pre paration. It having gain'd the univeiial Approbation both in Town and Country that have made Ufc thereof, and found up on the largeft Experience, to be the only fate and infallible Mcdi cine for whitening, fattening pre fcivit.g and cleaning the Teeth, that ever was offer'd to the Pub-lick u having cured divers Pcifnns who had Ulcers and Cancer in ihe Mouth, and others whofe Teeth and Gums were alrooft eaten away with the Scurvy it kills Worms that lie in the Root and Marrow of the Teeth, and preferves and fweetens the Bieath to Admiration y and fo gentle and balfamick a Preparation, that it i alfo an excised ng Beautifier of the Faee, infallibly takes off Sun-burn, Freckles, Scurff, c, and gives a fine Grace to the Features It certainly prevents the Gum Rofacea, i. e. a Red-nefs, with Pimples in the Nofc and Cheeks, and fometimes in the ■whole Face, which often tender the Face rough and horrid, and Nofe monftruouflybig. Thisfamous TinRnreunowinthcgreateft Efteem in Foreign Parts, as well as in England, and is univerfally allow'd to be the moft valuable Gem that either Art or Nature cvet produced it having never fail'd, though innumerable Trials have Been made in all the Cafes abovemciuion'd. Alto the Chymical Liquor for curing the ITCH, and all fcorbotickHumours and Breakings out whatfoever, though arrived to the higheft and moft ftabbnm Degree, or of ever fo long ftanding, it rakes away all Spots, Blotches, Pimples or Scabs from tbe Hands, Legs, or any Pan ot ihe Body, occsfion'd by thai o dious Diftemper it purifies the Blood, fweeteiisall the Fluids rec tifics the Juices, directly cleans the whole Habit from all Marks, Itching , foul Irruptions, c audio a veiy ftioit Time accom plices the Cure with the utmoft Eaf ard Safety. It hatha deli cate Flavour, and no mote prejudicial to Linncn than fair Water. It is an excellent Medicine to take off Scuiff or Reducfs from the Face, whether occafion'd by hard Drinking, Surfeits, or any other occidental Caufe. Price is. 6d. Advice and proper Medicines in all Diftempers. _ Note, The DoEfcor gives conftant Attendance at hit Houfe afore-' laid, and deans, feales, aud draws Teeth as ufusi. Quantity but of a Nutmeg that the ntccft Perfons an as well fur-pnied as delighted with it and the more,' as it afirees with every ones Conftitution, hinders no Bufintfs, nor gives this leaft Sufpici-on to the neareft Relation. In a very fmail Space of Time, living Umyarately it rids away a mild CLAP, ana thofe more, fevers according n tbeif ftvsral Degrees of Malignity. # • There never was, or can be, in the whole Aft OX 'PhySck contri ved, any Medicine or Method capable cA wcrfoimiog tb Cure more certainly, more fafely, or more fpeodiiy, ov is fo eomplwtly ad apted to every Circumftance of the InfeRton, SQQ fo' fully anfwcrs the feveral Intentions of euring, that it is impofflble it fftoold ones fail. But no mors need be laid of it, for it will recommend itfelf, in-fomuch that no Perfon will ever after leek for Cure himfelf, or advife hit Friend to any other Remedy. Price Five Shillings the Tin Pot. Prepared only by the DoRor, as abovefaid, and left fealed up with DlrcQions at Mr. Ifted'd a Bookfeller, at the Golden Ball betwedn St. Donftan's Church and Chaneery-Lane End in Flcet-lbcet where it may be had by any Meffenger, asking only for a it. Pot of the COMPOUND mucfi lamed HyPO-DROPS, few Days infallibly Cures Hypochon-i iie lo Which in a few Hays dkiack- Muakcuolv in MEN and Vavovai in WO-M K N, fo as never to return again, be they ever fo fevere, or of Years ftanding, and even after all other Remedies have proved itual for they immediately ftrike at the very Root or true • as well as remedy the Effeosofthofe perplexing Maladies,and of Symptoms, by. which they mimick by turns, al-by ti poor Mortals arc afih e'd with, ana have their Appetite, vitious Feimcnt in the Stomach, and all their Variety ot J muft all the Dtleafc Rife from a depraved Appetite, vitious P'eiment in the Stomach, and lr ligeftiou oF Food, Wncnce proceed Crudities and flatulent or windy Difordccs in the full Paffages, ill Fumes, four Belching , Cholick, and Uncafi.-tfs in the Bowels which Crudities offend the Nerves, and, by co'Tcni of Parts affect the Head, and produce fometimes Gid-dintTs, Dimucfs of Sight,confufed Thnughcs,pertinacious Watchings, troublcfooic Sleep Frights, eroundlefs Fears, and the deepeft Melan choly, wirji direful Views and terrible App'chcnfions at other Times Fits, fluffiing Hears, Reaching , Faiutuefs, Lownefs and Sinking of the Spirits, Palpitation of the Heart, Startings, Tremblings and Twitching in the Limbs and other Pacts, with many couvulfiveDif-urdcis, fiiarp Pains fix'd or wandering. Pain and Weakncft in tht Back and other, almoft tnnumctable and grievous Symptoms, which mifcrahly afflift vaft Numbers of both flexes, a 11 .. - -■-t Pi . . . , . . the moft valuable Spccificks in the mineral, vegetable and animal ~ ? Perfection poffible ''laufe, good IbotkAcli Cured AVifiiAput DRAWING AllVhieh Symptoms, in their fharpeft Patoxyfms, thefe fo mueh iknicJ and moftyleafant Drops which arcchyn.ically prepared From .... • . - . . P 1 inltantly quell, aud at the fame Time annihilate their real Cauft, dircflly bringing the Stomach into right Order, creating a good Appetite, reSifying the Digeftion, occafioning laudable Chyle, and ot Courfe, good Blood, Plenty of Calm, free, and chearful Spirits, s regular Circulation of all the Fluids, and Strength of Nerves fo riiat both Caufc and Effcfes of Melancholy and Vapours are tho-luglkly removed by them, alrooft on tbe Soot, as tbe many Thou-rod ot both Sexes they have perfeftly cured, evince. Whoever takes them for three Days only, will he fennble they are ibfolutely to be depended upon for an cffcftual and Isftiog Cute, and certain itls, that no Medicine upon Earth can equal them br careful therefore to have the right Drops, which are to be had only at Mrs, Holt's at tbe Croft-Keys and Star, below the Royal Ex-chauge, in Cornhill, at 3s. 6 d. a Bottle, with Directions at laTge. An tnfalltble Cure fir Barrenness in WOMEN and iMPotENCY in MEN By SUPERLATIVE, ENLIVENING DROPS Which in a few Days render boih Sexes Prolifick in a moft wondrful Manner. Hundreds of Ladies who were deemed incutably barren, aud very many who thought themfelves too old to bear Children, have immediately conceived after taking three or four Dufes of them only and vaft Numbers of Gentlemen by taking them, have prefeutly become capable of propagating their Species, who before, through either ItuDcciltty or Age, imagin'd t inipofiible. They almoft inftantiy renovate the vital Ferment of the Blood and Juices, refttfy the languid State of all the Fluids, ronfe, for tify and inercafe the Spirits, invigorate the Nerves, reftore juvenile Warmth, and caufe a foarkling Gladnefs aud ardent Courage to flow iu the Heart, ana expand itfelf through the whole human Syftem, fo as enfibly to enliven and invigorate all the animal Fa culties, and corroborate or ftrengthen the whole Body, as well ai the Parts appropriated to Generation, and do infallioly cure Bar-renncfs in one Sex, au foever proceeding, as ' or Weakneft to happen ou the other. And the moft inveterate Degree of the French IUneft, attended with nocturnal Pains, univerfai Bieakings-out, and all other the muft exafperated Symptoms, are fuon overcome by it, and effeftually and much more fafely eured than by Salivation, lnun atiou, or any othc Method whatever, and in fo caly and pleafant a Manner, without impairing Strength or oecafioning any Inconveniencies, as loudly to pcfpcak it the only oppofite Remedy, er true Venereal Antidotein the world and this fume Thoufands have, to their great joy expe rienced. It is pleafant to take, oecafions no Sicknefs or Disorder, not requires Confinement but may be taken, and the Cure accompliJlicd, without the Knowledge of the ucareft Friend. Tfinfe who fufpeft they have received an Injury, may only by 4 Bofe or two of it be perteftly ficcd from all Appreheufions fur it fuffers do lurking Venom to lie hid in the Body, but wholly exttr nates it Root and Branch, iu a gentle, cafy, and moft effectual Manner. All fnch Hkewife as doubt they have fome remaining Relicks ot former injuries, may, by a few Dufes of it, intirely free them fclvcs from all Sufpicions of that Kind for it admits of no Foulnefs, Corruption, or'Putrefaftion whatever, to remain in the Fluids at to adhere to the Solids, and on that Account, in all Scorbueieh, Scrophulous, and even Leprous Eruptions or Fouiucffes of the Skin, Glatidulous Swellings aud Impurities of the Juices, it does mote by one Dofe thin any other Medicine yet knowu can by ten. The Price if this moft noble Anri-Syphilicon is but Six Shillings a Pot, which confiderine its extraordinary Efficacy, one Pot only be ing fufficicnt, in moft Cafes, to accomplifil the Cuie, is not a tenth Pact of its Value y and is appointed by tbe Author to be had only at Mr. Radford's Toy-fhop, at the Rofe and Ciuwn againft St. Cle ment's Church-yard in the Strand, ready fealed up, with a Book of Inftruftions, by the Pcxufal of which all Perfons who were ever af~ fefted with any Degree of the Venereal Difeafe, may perfectly un-derftaud their own Condition, and certainly know wneo, and whea iot, the Venereal Poifon is entirely rooted out of their Bodies. Note Ask only fur a Six Shilling Pot fez tbe Sturvy-CONSUMPTIONS of alitorts ASTHMA'S, And all Diforders of the Bn east and Lvhoi, Dire£tly and infallibly Cured, By tbe Great, Chemical ELIXIR. Wliich has refior'd fo many Thoufands labouring under the deepeft Cunfumptions and moft deplorable Afthma's to perfeft Hv lih and Srrcneth in a few Days Time, after all other the molt celebrated Mcihoas and Medicines had been try'd in vain. It at once ftrikes at, ami abfolutely eradicates the fitft Principle or Caufe of Confumptioitf, whether of the Lungs or of any other Kind, as alfo of Afthma's or hortnefs of Breath, reduces the vi cious Ferment of the Blood and Juices, corrects the zorid Salts which crods the Longs them from all obftrufting Vifcofitics, and does more real Good in one Day than any other Medicine wbatevee can in Ten. It affbredly retrieves the Patient, tho' reduced to a mere Skeleton and immediately cures the moft tedious wafting and almoft foffoca-ring Cough, Hoarfncfs, Wheeling, fhortnefs of Breath, difficulty of Breathing, pain or weight in tne Breaft, pitting of Blood, fore-nefs of the Stomach, Throat, or Windpipe alfo Catarrhs or De-fluftions of lharp Rheum, and all Ptifical ana Afthmatick Effeftr, Heftick Fever, melting Night Sweats and Diarrhsea's or Loofencffes in a pleafant and moft agreeable Manner. . alin ' and perfectly cures Ulcers in the Lungs or in any nal Part, caufes free and eafy Refpiration or lone Breathing, , fpeedily and iufalftbly cures Asthma's and all lorts of Confemp-mins, he they ever fo bad, without the leaft Diforder, Trouble, or Confinement aud is indeed the only true Remedy that can be finely depended upon for the intire Cure of thefe Maladies. Nor can the whole Materia Mcdica afford a quicker, or more cer-rinCurc for common Coughs and Colds but the great Character this toft noble Chymical Elixir has fojuftly gained for the direfk and infallible Cure of Cunfumptions, Afthma's, c. has occafiuu'd many Attempts to counterfeit it be careful therefore to have the Right which is to be had only at Mr. Radford's Toyihop, at the Rofc and Crown againft St. Clement's Chutch-yard in the Strand, at 3 s. 6 d. a Bottle with DireQions, and at no other Place in England. Wtan Our Lord Falls in Our Lady's Lap, England Beware of a Great MISHAP.--x 744 renncfs in one Sex, aud Imputency in the other, from what Caufe 4 as Thoufan-'s nave experienced. They ate alfo pleafant to take, are cordial to the Stomach, pre and caufe a good Digeftion, beyond any thin cure an A known in t! To yan orld. And are to be had only at Mr. Radford', ly-filop, at the Rofe and Crown agaiuft St. Clement's Church-d in the Strand, at Five Shillings a Buttle with Diiettions. For the EYES. The fo much Fam'd CHYMICAL LI QU O R, Which at once infallibly cures all Inflammation, Bloodshot, Soreness, and Weakness of the E Y KS,De ductions of harp Humours, Dinmefs of Sight, Syccks, Films, 01 beginning CataraftS and that after all other Means have fail'd, and without c ufing the leaft Trouble or Uneafincfs in ufitig. It dire ly heals and cures all Manner of Sureuefs of the iCyes i n Children or grown Perfons, tho' of many VeaTs ftanding, he it ei-thet of the ary, itebiug and fmartiug Kind, or moilr, rheumy, or watering, and whether proceeding from the Evil or any other Dif temper. It effectually takes away all Specks, Films, or incipientCatarafts o Admiration, as alfo all Flies, or Gnats that feem to fwiin before the Sight it wonderfully ftrengthens the Optick Nerves, comforts the Eyes, immediately removes all Dazzling and Dimncft, clearing tb® Sight, and infallibly preferviug it ftrong aud good to exceeding old Age. Hundreds who were fo very dim-fighted for fome Years, as fcarcely able to diftinguifh any Thing, and imagined their Age to be the Oc-furo, have been perfectly and almoft iuicautly cured by it, fo as to read the fmallcfc Print without Speftacles t and for Opthalmicks, r foie, hloodfhot and rheumy Eyes, no Medicine on Earth can come •icar it Thoufands of Men, Women and Children have been cured hy it of the very worft fott almoft upon the Spot, aud Blinducii been picvenud in Abundance, who had try'd all other Remedies in vain lulomuch that it may be almoft accounted a miraculous Remedy. No Family ought to be without it, nor ever will, alter they have had but one Day s Experience of its admirable Efficacy. It is to be had only, by the Author's Appointment, at the Gen-■.lewoman's, attheTwo Blue Wilts in Haydun-Yanl iu lie Minn ies London, at 3 a. 6 d. a Bottle with Diicftions.t reeiT iFIatcli Ilolborn kU RING the Space of Years Part, Via. From- the Year h-tS Under K. Eih'elwolf Jo This Prefent Ycar cx lufive ir44i There has happened juft it Years, ami No more, In which, • Eafter has Fallen on L..dy Day, as it docs ' i This, Prefent Year 1744. And which Ycai.-, have bren Always looked upon as Clmi'u'us Ones, and therefore, have Occa-fluued Another Proverbial Saying. Wien Eaiie falls on Lady Day, Beware then England, of a FRAY. Now, Sayings Never come to lie Provesbs, but from st Long Fxpciiencc of their Truth?, Since therefore, this Prefent Year 1744, s thus One of the Ominous Years, it has Occafiuued the Lou'.ing 9C0 Years Back that are P ft, aud Examining what Calamities, particular fmni Other Years, have been Obfervcd to have huppeued in Thofe Years, that have been the Ominuus One. Now, licit- are hewed the 71 .Sorrowful Milhapy, and Calamities, which have happened to England in thofe Above-tuention'd 1! Ominous Yeats of Eaftcr's b alling on Lady Day. Al!b, is here iili-ry'd, Without being Any Great Con jurer that We Iiiay-Tinrely Bewate of it, and he upon our Guatd againft it, to keep it OFB'.--For, Fore-Warn'd, Fore-Arm'd. WHAT the lireu Mjbap IS. Wm.h England is to be Awatc of, and which We are Thrcatncd Hard with at This Tim-Unhappily to Befall Us, in this Prefent Year 1744. ' Which is Aro her Such OMINOUS Year, It's Eafter Falling on Lady Day. And England will -.ot haliiy Forget King Charles I. be-V'S Beheaded, and the Troubles in 1 549, Which was ONE of the OsiC and 1 wenty Ominuus Years juft now Mentioned. A' well as nie Great Pl.AGUE, in Another alio of thofe One and Twenty Ominous Years. j is GIVEN GRAi JS, In n.e Parlour, Strait Forward Facirg the E Mry, At Dr. Ruffel' Houfe In at the Green Hatch Over agaiuft Grab's Inn in Holboru -- Where, Is aUu Given GulisJ i lie Venereal, and GLLET Patiem's DJRECTOR Y. alfo By rf LONDON, Printed tor W. W A KD, at the Black Lion in Rufel-Street, CeventGarden j where AUvertiletucms, and Letters to the Author Polt paid are taken in. 
588 THE EXAMINER. Sept. 13, as to whether Carpenter had any effects, the police officer said he would, not give 5s. or all he had in the house he had too bed, the family laid on some straw, and that there was a bit of a table in the house. The clerk said a distress warrant must issue, as Caipenter was not present, and if he had not goods to realize the amount, then the officer would return the warrant as such, and his Carpenter's commitment would then be issued. We were informed that Carpenter has two children, and that his wife is in a very far advanced state of pregnancy. POLICE. The Murder of Eliza Grimwood.-George Hill, a private of the C7th Regiment, now in Dublin, was brought up for examination relative to the confession which he had made that he was the murderer of Eliza Grimwood.-Inspector Field, of the London police, who had been sent over to Dublin to take charge of the prisoner, stated that Edward Sudlow, professor of music, Chorlton-on-Medlock, Hanging-ditch, professionally engaged in the orchestra as principal tenor violin, crossing to resume his place in the, orchestra, when the accident occurred, was by some means thrown down, and his left leg received a very serious com pound fracture a little above the ancle. He is in a very precarious condition. Serious Accident to Sir John Mordaunt, Bart.-A very serious accident occurred to Sir John Mordaunt on the 2nd inst., on his estate at Walton, near Warwick. He was out shooting with a party of friends on the above day, when th gun of a gentleman named Mills, which he was trailing along the ground, accidentally went off, and the contents of both barrels lodged in the legs of Sir John, who was at a short distance. Another Colliery Explosion.-On the night of the 2nd inst. the inhabitants of the village of Aberdare, who have hardly had sufficient time to recover from the excite ment produced by the late dreadful catastrophe, were thrown into a state of great consternation by an explosion in Blaen-he was present at the College-street police court on Monday, o j f the 1st inst., when the prisoner was taken before Mr Tyndal, I gawr colliery, the property of Mr Davies, of Hirwain. The the magistrate, and on that occasion a document was read violent concussion of air consequent upon the explosion had f i-Pn ♦ rtf n - n I -- 1. 1 _ _ 1 1. .. 1 .. . I . I in his presence to the effect that he was the man who mur dered Eliza Grimwood.-Mr Traill asked the prisoner if he still adhered to the truth of that statement. The pri soner replied that the confession was made when he was under the influence of liquor, being heartily sick and tired of the army, thinking it was the only and best mode to obtain his dismissal. He was now willing to tell the whole truth, and retracted the words he used as to being a mur derer. His object in making the self-accusation arose from his abhorrence to the life of a soldier, and not long before he had suffered six months' imprisonment for an act which he committed in the expectation of getting out of the army.-Inspector Field said that he had ascertained the prisoner was tried in Dublin for stealing a watch, and con victed of the offence, and sentenced to six months' impri sonment. That the prisoner bore a very indifferent cha racter in the regiment, although he was considered a young man of superior attainments, and spoke the French and Italian languages fluently, and that Colonel Bunbury, the commanding officer, had given him every encouragement, and promoted him to the rank of corporal before he had been long in the regiment, but that owing to his misconduct he was again reduced to the ranks.-Mr Traill said that he should remand the prisoner until Inspector Field had made a searching inquiry into his prisoner's habits, where he had been living at the time of the murder of Eliza Grim wood, and other requisite information, in order that the real truth might be ascertained.-The prisoner was then removed from the bar, and will be brought up again this day. The Men in Buckram-On Saturday last, at Clerken-well, Edmund Thomas Yeakell and Charles Lander, whose cases have been fully detailed, were again brought before Mr Greenwood, and finally committed for trial. The Robbery on the Great Western Railway.-Charles Maynard, the house agent, was brought up at Guild hall yesterday on the additional charge of bigamy. Har-the effect of an earthquake in shaking the whole district. The accident was occasioned in consequence of some of the workmen having, contrary to the positive instructions of the master, got an underground door placed in some por tion of the colliery, which had the effect of obstructing a current of air. There were happily not more than five men in the pit at the time of the explosion, three of whom were dreadfully scorched they are, however, likely to recover. Accident on the Midland Railway.-An accident happened on the Midland Railway on Friday last, within six miles of Nottingham. At the Long Eaton station there is a slight curve, which prevents a person seeing any great distance either up or down the line, and at the time of the train, which left Derby at ten minutes past nine a.m., nearing the station at Eaton, two horses, drawing an empty cart, happened to be crossing the line from an occu pation road unfortunately the boy having care of the horses could not see the train till it was close upon him, nor could the engineer see the horses, consequently the engine dashed suddenly upon the two horses, forcing the leader into the air as high as the engine chimney, and carrying the other along the line, the gearing being caught by a buffer, for thirty or forty yards, till the engine was stopped. Both animals were killed upon the spot, but happily the passen gers escaped unhurt, and were not aware of any accident having occurred till the train had ceased running. The lad, aged fourteen, on seeing the danger he was in, instantly ran to the hedge-side, and fell into a ditch, and thus pre served himself from injury. Accident on the Brighton Railway.-On Monday morning, as the seven o'clock mixed train from Brighton was approaching the Clayton tunnel slowly, in consequence of the slippery state of the rails from the fog, a pilot engine, proceeding to its usual station at Horley, came up with the train, and struck the last carriage, a third class, which was unhooked from the train. The passengers in that carriage some part of the train must have gone over the limbs. Although so severely and dangerously injured, hopes are entertained of his recovery. The two females escaped without the slightest injury. .. . . r . . suffered a severe shock, and many of them jumped out in net Maxted proved her marriage with the prisoner during i S o doing Mr Neale, of Fleet street, printer, was cut in the the present year, and the Rev. Mr Austin produced the f 00t an J ot iers sustained some bruises. No injury accrued register of the prisoners marriage in 18-2. Mr Daniell 1 t0 t he en g ne or carriage. The train was immediately also swore he was a witness, and present at the marriage in s t 0 pp e an d the carriage re-attached, and all the passengers, 1822. He saw the prisoner sign his name to the book. • • • - • - - • • Other evidence was gone into to complete the case, and the prisoner was committed on that charge. Attempt to Assassinate.-An Italian, named Alex. Corradini, was brought up at Bow street on Thursday, .... U , 11UUH , a charged with attempting to assassinate Mr Thomas Smith, J 4 j nst f which was attended with the death of George landlord of the Hope public house, in Blaekmore street, Macklin, one of the guards. It appears that Macklin has Clare market, under the following singular circumstances, been employed on the line for only four months, and in The prisoner bad for some time frequented the house of accorc j ance with a custom which provides that all new the complainant, and had occasionally been treated as a g Uar j s h e appointed to the charge of luggage trains as an fvionH hut ahiic rl ihp rnrifif pnrp rennsed in him bv- not . ..... 1.. 1. _i .i i j excepting a lady and gentleman who returned to Brighton, were brought forward to their respective destinations in safety. Accident on the Edinburgh and Glasgow Rail way.-An accident took place on this line on Thursday the friend, but abused the confidence reposed in him by not only paying much attention to his wife in his absence, but also attempting to seduce her from her home. The com plainant had occasion to absent himself from town for the purpose of superintending the funeral of an aged parent for a few days, and on his return to town he found, from inform ation he had obtained from his domestics, that his wife, who had been infa uated with the prisoner, had packed iniatory step, he had charge of a train of this kind which left Glasgow at eleven o'clock on Wednesday night. The train reached Linlithgow in safety, where one of the trucks was to be left, and for the sake of convenience it was the last in the train. It was in connexion with this particular truck that Macklin lost his life, but as no person saw the accident, the particulars of it cannot be given with certainty. - ... From the position, however, in which the body was found, up every available article on the premises to accompany jj. j s SU pp 0 sed to have occurred as follows -Before the her paramour to Germany. He had represented himself' trai ' ' ' ' r paramour to Germany. He had represented himself ra j n had been fully stopped he had swung himself on the ,o a baron, and that she should become a lady of title, ana b u ff ers 0 f tj e second last truck in order to save himself the on her arrival on the continent she should have the command 0 f running forward and uncoupling the last one at of extensive domains. Some misgivings were entertained t he proper time and while in this situation he had fallen by the domestics in the absence of the complainant ot bis j down 0 n the rail, and immediately the remainingve an engine down did not succeed, and instantly made Ins escape from the 1 the line to the shedding near the Archcliffe tunnel. The house, leaving the complainant in the greatest state of alarm. Several witnesses confirmed this statement by evidence. As the defendant would not, or could not, un derstand English, the evidence was translated to him. He also conversed with the magistrate in German, declaring that he had no knife about him, and that the complainant struck him first with the poker from feelings of jealousy. He displayed considerable warmth in the dock at times, and, looking furiously at Mr Smith, muttered something that was not clearly understood. Failing to produce the required bail for his appearance at the sessions, Mr Jardine committed him to prison. ACCIDENTS, OFFENCES, OCCURRENCES. Fall of a Room at the Philharmonic Insti tute, Manchester.-During the recent musical per formances at the Philharmonic Institute in this town, shortly before the commencement of the second part, after some of the choir had returned to their places on the plat form, a loud crash was heard behind the scenes, and great shrieking, together with the noise of falling bodies. The accident consisted in the giving way of the planks or rafters supporting a dressing room, in which a great num ber of the male chorus were congregated, taking refresh ment. The weight being greater than the beams could support, they gave way, and fifty or sixty persons were at once precipitated to the stage, a fall of about twelve feet. It is wonderful hat an occurrence so alarming should have been attended with so little serious injury. Only one per son wan much hurt, and he was conveyed at once to the Infirmary, to Ji.ive hi injuries examined, Thjs was Mr poor fellow promptly proceeded with the order, but on the engine passing through the tunnel he imprudently jumped on the step, and was literally jammed against the wall. On the engine emerging from the tunnel the unfortunate crea ture was discovered quite dead, having evidently been killed instantaneously. Heroic Conduct on a Railway.-On Thursday week one of the most providential escapes, as regards human life, occurred on the railway connected with the Bishop wearmouth iron works. The iron works in question extend over avast extent of country, and, for the purpose of a speedy transit from one part to the other, railways have been established, one of which is formed on an inclined plane, down which the heavily laden waggons are propelled at a fearful rate. On the morning of the above day, while one of the train of waggons was passing down, two very old women, each being nearly seventy years of age, labour ing under defective sight as well as hearing, got on the line. A few seconds more they both must have inevitably been crushed to death. Their perilous situation was, how ever, witnessed by Mr David Holsgrove, the overlooker of the works, who in an instant dashed forward and seized the two females, whom he threw off the line, and out of the way of danger. Unfortunately the engine at this instant came up, which knocked Mr Holsgrove down, and he was picked up as dead. He was instantly conveyed to one of the buildings in the vicinity, and medical aid was sent for, when, upon examination, it was discovered that he bad sustained several contusions about the head, that both his Suicide in a Brothel.-On the afternoon of Thurs day week an inquest was opened before the deputy-coroner for Middlesex, on.the body of a young man who committed suicide in a house of ill-fame, under somewhat extraordi nary circumstances. A woman of the town, named Harriet Mayne, was the principal witness. She deposed to having met the deceased on the night of Tuesday, the 2nd inst. a! a concert at the Garrick's Head, in Bow street, where she had part of a pint of sherry with him and a friend of his. About three o'clock on Wednesday morning the deceased accompanied her to her lodgings in Aldenham street, and remained in bed till two o'clock on Wednesday afternoon when she invited him to have some breakfast, but he re fused, and said he would rather have a glass of wine. He gave witness half-a-crown to send for a pint of sherry, and on her calling Margaret Bryan, the landlady's daughter to go for it, deceased added, Stay, I will send for some thing else that will do me good. Deceased then asked for a pen and ink, and wrote a prescription in Latin, telling her to send it to some chemist, giving her 2s. to procure it. Margaret Bryan went to the shop of Mr Wakefield, and on her return with the wine, said that Mr Wakefield said he had not got any, and that it was poison. Witness told de ceased, who said, Nonsense, it is no such thing it is only to enliven up low spirits. Send to another doctor. Mar garet Bryan then went to the shop of Mr Rentmore, in Cla rendon square, and brought back a phial about three parts full of stuff smelling like almonds. Deceased was then lying on the sofa in the parlour, and appeared very cheer ful. Witness left him to get her breakfast, leaving the phial and the wine on the table. She returned in about five minutes and, on entering the room, asked deceased how he was. He replied, he felt better, but his stomach began to pain him at that moment he turned over on the sofa and appeared fainting, and made a gurgling noise in the throat. She called for water, and then sent for a doctor. Mr Wakefield came, and said he was dead, and had taken poison.-By the Coroner I had never seen the deceased beforft I had not the slightest idea that he had sent for poison, and I intended to have taken a portion of what he sent for had he left any, as he said it was for low spirits. I should say he was not more than twenty years of age. When alive he appeared of rather sallow complexion, and has dark-brown hair. His dress consists of a black frock coat, black satin waistcoat, lavender-coloured striped trou sers with straps, the whole quite new, a blue striped silk neckerchief, white stockings, yellow kid goves, and short boots, a new hat, maker's name Townend, Cbeapside and Regent street. He had with him a small yellow stick, with the handle much bitten, and his linen was marked G. Oldfield, jun. On his person were found tvo hand kerchiefs, one white muslin, with the name G. Oldfield on it, the other silk a cigar-case, a green purse studded with steel beads and tassle, with 2s. in it, and on his finger a gold ring with a green stone. Deceased did not give witness any other money than for the wine and for the stuff. Margaret Bryan proved having gone with the pre scription first to the shop of Mr Wakefield, and then to that of Mr Rentmore, where she procured the stuff for deceased, and paid Is. 9d. for it, and that she was served by a young man, Mr Rentmore's brother. The witness having identified the prescription, the deputy-coroner said it was in Latin, and was half an ounce hydrocyanic acid, and at the bottom was written for flavouring soups, and it was signed G. O. Mr Wakefield proved that when he was called to see deceased he was quite dead. The deputy-coroner animadverted on any chemist selling so large a quantity of poison to a stranger, and called upon Mr Rentmore for an explanation. Mr Rentmore, jun., who served it, said he understood that the girl who fetched the poison came from the pastrycook in Seymour street, and knowing oil of almonds was used in that trade, he served it. The deputy-coroner said the circumstances of the case were so strange, although there was no reason to believe that the witness Mayne had connived at the de ceased poisoning himself, that he felt it necessary to adjourn the inquiry for further evidence, and to have the body opened. The inquiry was ultimately adjourned till Mon day last, and after the post mortem examination, the body was removed to St Pancras workhouse for iden tification.-On Monday the inquest was resumed. Mrs Emily Oldfield, the wife of Mr Oldfield, rope-maker, Southgate road, Balls pond, Islington, stated that the deceased was her son, and that he was warehouse clerk in the employ of Messrs Warwick and Sons, wholesale druggists, Garlick hill. On the morning of the 2nd inst. he left home for his office, and told witness that he would go with some friends to Gravesend that day. She gave him 8s. 6d., but did not know what other money he had. She never afterwards saw him alive. Her impression was, that he had been drugged in the house in Aldenham street, and then murdered. The coroner assured Mrs Oldfield that both he and the jury were fully convinced, by the evidence given on the first day, that her son had not been drugged. On the contrary, they felt that the circumstance was unfor tunate for all parties, and that every attention had been paid to him. Mr Rentmore, brother and assistant to Mr Rentmore, surgeon, said that he sold to the servant of the house in Aldenham street, half an ounce of the essential oil of almonds in an ounce and a half bottle. He imagined that it was required by a soap-maker or a pastry-cook. It was usual with druggists to sell as much as an ounce of it to persons in those trades. The bottle was not labelled. Mr G. Wakefield, surgeon, examined the body, which gave evidence of the destructive presence of prussic acid, which, no doubt, was the cause of death. The quantity sold de ceased was sufficient to kill four persons. The jury, after half an hour's deliberation, returned a verdict, That George Oldfield, jun., died by taking the essential oil of almonds with his own hands, but that there was no evidenc of his state of mind at the time that he took it. The jury accompanied the verdict with a censure on Mr Rentmore, jun., for having so incautiously sold the poison. Suicide at Sea.-Mr Hall, of the firm of W. J. Hall and Co., of the Custom house quay, waited upon the Lord Mayor at the Mansion house, on Monday, to make a com munication to his lordship relative to the suicide of a gen tleman on his passage from Hull to London, in a steam vessel. It appeared that on last Saturday afternoon, when the William Darley steam vessel was on her passage from Hull to London, a gentleman, best cabin passenger, jumped overboard, near the lower middle buoy, abreast the Shears, and was drowned. The moment Capt, Turner saw the un arms were broken in two places, and also one of his legs, fortunate man in the water he ordered tho engine to h besides other injuries about the body, It is supposed that stopped and reversed, and the boat to be lowered a
THE EXAMINER. main royal mast, and both main-tnpmast-stays, the main! large stick, which Sir. Budgcon warned fould with iiis umbrella, The man at the horse's head then cried oat in #. violent manner to shoot him, upon which the villain at the'chaise discharged the pistol at Mr, B, and two shots passed through his hat, Tile discharge of the pistol caused the horse tn take fright, and run off furiously, but Mr. B. retaining Command aver the animal, he escaped without injury. Qa Sunday morning last a dreadful ire broke out in the house of the Hon, Admiral. Cornwallis, at Newtands, pear Lviuing'on, Hants, which for some time threatened destruction to the whole buildings hut from the timely assistance of the firemen and engines from Lymington,. it was happily got under, after destroying the ruhii house apti furniture, Ton much praise cannot lie given to the inhabitant , of Lymington for their ready assistance in getting the fire under,.particularly to a Mr. Oolborne, jipilder and surveyor of that place, fijjr.his very great exer tions', w ith a few men, in cutting. away part of the roof and floor of the Tnjjldfngs n'lien oft fire, which prevented the fire from destroying the whole of the office , c. '■ Op 1'viday sc nnight the fiillowipgshpcking circumstance occurred in Sandgate,,ip.Newcastle.h Ajpung woman, sleeiiin .v. ith andfifant child atvoke early in the morning, aiTif 'inissed the child ayt pf tie hod. On searching the room, she.finirtd fhat-ft Ijtd fallen from the bed intdatuh of water., which had .been left near it, and was drowned. The shrieks, of the young woman bn discovering this me tviicholy' event, alarmed the ■■neighbours,' who, instead of . fndfiavouiicjg to. quiet her perturbed mind, began tu'char e her with Carelessness, Sic.' This added to the anticipated reflect tons of the mother who was then at Shields ope rated so.pOWerfully ott the youug uomun's feelings, that the rushed out of the house, and, in a fit of, frenzy, pre cipitated herself into the mur,. where she was drowned •before any assistance could be afforded. The young wo tfian was the, child's aunt, and sisfar. to he lutsband. ' ■ hi ES!!?SE5! Sasaei v -V. TVESDA j SLOEDOE GAZETTE. AdinsratiyrQjjice, Dec. 17. Copy of a fetter transmitted to Rear-Admiral Sir Edward Tel'evv,' Bart. Oomnjander irt Chief of his Majesty's Snips find Vessels in the East Indies, to the If on. W. , Pole. S '' • • Ilis Majesty's Ship St. fiorenzo, r fflR, _ at Sea, Oth Starch. It w ith regret I have to inform you of the death ef Capt. llardinge, late of his Majesty's ship St. Fiorenxo, ho tell gloriously in the early part of an action op the 8th inst. between Ris Majesty's ship St, Fiorenzo and the French 110110001 frigate La Picdmpiitnise, The St. Fio-trpaz sailed from Point tie Galle on Friday the 4th inst, at fatiLpast eleven, A. M. Cfn the 6th, at seven, A. M, pasted three Indinmfin, and shortly after saw a frigate bearing N, E, We immediately hiniled our wind in chase, and made nil tail, being aV that time n lat. 7. 32. long. Vi, 68. We made the private signal, which was not answered .yud at five shelved our colours, which tlro-eae my took. jb uotjee f. At 40 minutes past eleven, P. Al. w e ranged alongside of him on the larboard tack, and re-. eeived bis broadside, A tierpitgaging till fit minutes past eleven P. M within cable's length,' the enemy made sail a-het.il, out of the range of our shot 5 we ceased firing and made all sail after him, , continuing to come up with him till daylight, when finding he could not avoid an action, fie o ere, as did wc also. At 26 inioutes past six reepm-meueed the action fit the distance of half a mile, gradual ly dosing with him tpn quarter uf a mile, The fire was on both sides, though tbafwf the latter part of the action, , the .enemy made-all sail befag shat through, tlic spring-stay, and most ot tne standing ana running riggin and all our sails shot to pieces, and most of our cartridges fired away as our guns were directed at his hull lie was not much disabled about lij3 rigging , we ceased firing, and employed nil hands in repairing the damages sustained and fitting the ship again for action. From the great in. jury nur masts, yards, and sails had received, I am sorry to observe that it was not in our power to chase to renew tbe actiofi immediately we, however, succeeded in keep ing sightof him during the night and at nineA. M. 00 the 8th, the ship being perfectly prepared for action, we bore down upon the enemy under all sail he did not cn. depvour to avoid us till we hauled athwart his stern, for the purpose of gaining the weather gage, and bridging him to close fiijht, when ho hauled up-also, and mafle all sail but perceiving that we came fast up with him, am that an action was inevitable, he tacked, and at three we passed each other at opposite tacks, and recommenced action w ithin a quarter of a cable's length. With grief I have tr.-observe that our bfave Captain was killed by a grape-shot the second broadside.' When the eacrny was abaft our beam bie wore, and after an hour and 20 minutes close action, struck their colours, ami waved their hats foe a boat to be sent them. She proved to be lia' Pied, montaise, commanded by Mbns. Eprnn, Capitaine do Vdisseaux she mounts 50 gun , long 18 pounders on her main deck, and 36-ponnder carronade on her quarter, deck. 8lie had 360 Frenchmen fih board, and nearly 20fl Lascars., who worked their kails. She. sailed from the ysle.of Fraitcf on the 30th December, In the action sha had 48 killed and 112 wounded. The St. Fiqrenzs has 13 killed and 25 wounded most oif the latter are 'in a most ptVmbingiway. A list of them Ivhavc the honour to inclose for your information. The'enemy was cut to pieces in fits masts, bowsptut,!and rigging, and they all went by the board during the night. i It is i.nv a pleasing part of my duty to recommend to your particular notice the cool, steady, and!gallant coitr duct of Lieutenants Edward Davie and Henry George Moysey the latter, I am sorry to say r was severely wounded about.ten minutes before the enemy struck. I alsoiexperitftlcefi very great assistance from Mr. Donovan, the Master, by the judicious and seaman-ike manner in which he laid us Close alongside the eriemjb To Lieute nant Samuel Ashmore, pf the Royal Marines, I am much indebted, for the coni and determined courage evinced by him through the whole action. Indeed every Officer, Petty Officer, Seaman, and Marine in. the ship, behaved in the mast brave and gaMant pmnner, and uubly main-tiiined the pre-tmineuce of the British flag. In the 6rst boat from the prize came Mr, IV. E. Black, A ss ' 3 ' aot-Surgeon of his Majesty V 86th regiment, captured by the Fiedmomaise, on her passage to Madras, who ren •-de.red the Surgeoagrent assistance, I am also much in debted tq tire Ctfficers of the Army, and The Gap fains and Gfneers of the country ships, who were prisoners on board tiie enemy, for the great assistance they afforded us with their Lascars, in erecting jury masts, and working the ship into port, as from our weak state, and the great number pf prisoners on hoard us, we could spare but fe w hands from our Own ship to send on board the prize. I have the honour tq be, c. • , IViliiam Ditwsok, To Sir Edward PeUete, Jlnrt, -list of Officers, Seamen, and Marines, tilled and ' mounded. , ' • . Wounded on the 6th.-Mm. Pitt, John Treacy, Win. Miller, seamen. - . • Allied on thpj Ytt.-Tltomns Martin, .Charles Smn 11-wood, Robert Onfrell, Jotfii Middleton, Villiam Mead, senmeaj. TYilliaai Martin, John Luff, Joseph Litchfield, rpaiinesi , , ' IVvnnded on the 1th.-John Meadows, since dead n ®. Baldwin, sinje dead George Byog, John Finc
iulhsld ri i iQv ioUb , nntipal and intern. tunties, wc now hu e ' le-the customs of I i In moral obligation ' THE MORNING CHRONICLE, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1. Morning Chronicle Office, Ten o'clock. lucuulon, the held K°vern. Ig peci,il rovision Ul , d ' 1 course of dischar'gl P w.hout receivino . disposition it xhlic ilitv upwards of 4, 00,000f., which successively absorbed unds which tbe sinking land left free these grants, . r vt-arly increase, have at length exceeded the pre-id siaouiitol tbe annual revenue. In short, we have I aeet extraordinary expenses, which were without doubt Liitied by events, or by the resolutions of the chambers, . r ,icb oblige os in the present state of things, to ted'ia oar calculation a deficit which, though reduced the combination of a special law for tbe War anu r,oe ll.partment, still amounts to 500 millions. We must r.K . CONNKCOU, ■C agreed upon cnrrvinu i respect to such handi-'■licit unions of journo r. kn, strikes, and the likj yi t the laws of the cour.. Ii, ns may be guilty of 4ny Ihe conlederate states, to i ci'o shall be taken, ufig, rbucher or travel j oa I'ulation of the law oor-vith the allotted punish, ler and travelling pas ies of the domiciles of th e jail, after undergoing thfont quite black in th® , mler strong convulsions -i-tance in a state of The medical man, on -Ba.rve on civil ponsiOM for 01,728 francs, and on military pensions, for 1,350,000 francs, will be but ' , The one ha v for enase the pensions of the em-°WS of tbe former, regie of the salt'works ot tbe E Bt, the ■ -h most be classed amongst the pensions on th# state, in Mosnce of the cancelling of the lease of the company, The'other results from a more exact appreciation of the sntn c -ssary for the payment of military p#nsionstogra#tyearly. ri wa- only customary to carry the nominal credit of inscrip-, tjon n the budget, without keeping an account of the propc-sitions which completed the immediate calls of tbe service I it resulted therefrom to claim each year's supplementary aliottnen's, which will be avoided henceforth by a more ex act calculation, which we submit to yon. We ask for the subvention to the calls des retraites of the departmeat or Fmaoee a credit of 7,767,000 ., representing the insufficiency of its resources in 1842. The developments in support of tbe budget justity his want of that allotment you will find au exuet appreciation of the probable extinctions and con cessions claimed by the necessities of the service. Au ar ticle of the law expenses fixes besides the credit of inscription at the sum of l,U40,000f. which does not exceed more than 90,000f. th nominal cipher ot anneal concessions. Ttist temporary supplement, with the 280,000f., ndded to the credit demanded lor 1841, will cause tin inscription in arrears brought up to the 31st of December, 1840, and resulting from the re strictive disposition of tbe law of the 12tb Aoril preceding. The endowments, fo-ming the said part of the budget, are carried to 16,225,100 f-ancs that is, 253,000 francs leas in 1841. That result is the sequence of the redaction which the subvention allowed to the L glon of Honour experiences, the which decreases from year to year, in proportion to the I extinctions. The budget of justice offers an increase ot 7,050 f which result# iromsnppleiaentaryallottncntsdetnunded I fur 32,800f. and compensated by redactions to the sum of ' 25,250f. The increase is carried to the expenses of the mati -iel el the Council of trtate, on the salary of the Vice-i President, and on the expenses of the Tribunals of I the First instance, which are increased by th# re-I ernt adjuuction to the Tribunal of the Seine of four supplementary Judges and four sworn clerks. The diminution arises from the extinction of seven pasts ol auditors, and by the retrenchment of 20 000 francs, which the situation of the caisse lies retraites of justice allows to be effected on the subvention which it enjoys. The expense of pnblic worship is increased also by the sum of 220,787 francs the following arc the causes-185,000 r . must be added to tbe salaries and indemaation ot the parochial clergy by the replacing of the old eccle-k op in view that the Treasury supports another deposit j siastics by young non-pensioned priests. A • ipplemeut of 'Vi millions, previous to tbe year 1833, and which has 2,0001. U applied to the rent of the hotel tor the resi-, - , , v u . .. 1 deuce of th? Archbishop of Baris 2 ,000t. are claimed liierto absorb, d, in part, the resource# of the floating debt. , a or i , r , 0 inoreS8e miays and means. Now, feould it not be a folly to reckon on aioverplus of receipts when ret e tkem yearly exceeded by on expenditure? You must il.ortrasrk that the adjudication of loans wusindicated bytbc i of 1817, a- a subsidiary resource, and allow us toadd, with hope that it would never be employed. It is then beyond unfit that tbe system of tbe law of 17th May, reposes eu-•ely on the resource of tbe sinking fond. A short time o, gentleman, the Five per Cents, were so near par that wire oil tbe point of Boeing tbe accumulation of there-ce at an end. Had this taken place, tbe sinking laid, -tend of being of any assistance to the Treasury, would ve td-Ud to its embarrassment for it would have become o, -arv to borrow far tbe purpose of reimbursing non-n-o idnted funds previously absorbed. It would have omc nsenssary to borrow to continue the works already inuirnccd, and which could not be stopped suddenly, and Isa to borrow to meet the still more imperious u'cessities ng from circumstances. Id presence of such ventualities, m n of foresight must bare inquired were possible to continue to contruct c'r-in engagements founded on uncerUin resourc e. Evi-r.iy the system established by the law of May 17, 1837, at ci ange with circumstances. Weconsequentlysub-l to yo.i two propositions-one to afiect from 1842 the re-rrveof tbe sinking fund, to the cxten.loB of tbe depo-Its of the years 1 840, 1841, and 1842 the other to titborise u loan of 450,000,OUOf. to meet the expenses d tbe public works belonging to tb# Wur and Ma-l,-e departments. An especial project of law will ke laid iff.-res yon shortly, dividing the total expense of tbe rk ' oo a series of years, and fixing for each year a limit to be exccedeJ. We have already nnaounced the i spe from th? proposition of the Minister ot Public Instruction. It Is, iu reality, but 113,362f. The surplus of 2G4,800f. represents expenses covered by equivalent rec ipts, hut are i the expanses of primat v schools, and schools of pharmacy ' united to the university by th rnval ordonnsucs of j Septwnber, 1840. A sum t 113,362f. is destined to remunerate a moth councillor of tbe university, nn4 cer tain protssiors of the Normal Seh loland Collegede France, us well as t'v'o royal colleges, with the exception of 4,OUOf. for the commissioners of police of Ham. The home budg-t presents but diraiuutfons to the amoantof 74,078''. owing to tbe cessation of the rent of the Tefograpb Hotel. The Home Minister Uemnrda that the union to refugees ha resisted in the list of services voted. Tbe Mi nister of Agriculture and Comm rc? demands nn augmen tation of 51,7991. for the establishment of Vicbv hut this will be covered by the increase of revenue. The plans for finishing work? of public utility, which we have laid before you, bring back the budget of the Mlnl-ter ol Public Works to its usual proportions but after the uansing of the special law, which will shortly b presented to you, the cost of the extraordinary works which shall be authorised for the year 1842 will be included in the Budget of that department, of which it will form a distinct section. The amount required for 1842 shows ua increase of 318,000f, composed of 23,200f on the central administration, of lOO.OOOf for the nla r ies of the department of roads, bridges, and mines, of 139 OOOf for in-terual waterways and the superintendence of railways. On the other hand the expense is decreased to the amount of the special credits for finishing the wsrks at th Luxemburg and the Hotel Mole. It is expected these wvks will be c unplete in 1841, and that there will b' no need of a farther nllowuncp. The charg 'B of the War Dipsrtmeat for 1842 ar# estimated at 304,718.3011., of which 40.028.274f. Bre for onr possessions in Africa. Tliess estimates exceed by 113,177,610f. the credits originally opened for the Budget of 1841 but, when compared to the spe cial laws rf supplementary credits recently presented, it will be seen that, keeping np the same eff-ctive, the budget ot 1842 is less by 53,238,OOOf to that of 1840, asd by 21,718,OOOf. to that of 1841. The credit ol 861,000,0005 is the cons-queuce of a temporary situation It, however, onnot be conceal ui that, under the most favourable hypothesis, the reduction there is peril ia not ipeedily applying- a remedy. Lihonrne. In this there are but two modes-reduce expenses or aug-ute it revenue. The r.'dnctiou of expenses has with us ever produced little effect, upd failed in its aim. The reports of commissions attest it. It is only in increasing the budget that we can bring revenue on a level with expenditure. Yet we do not propose new taxes, nor yet the Hugmentstion of tariffs. There is something first to be tried. Onr centributive system, in my opinion, ought to suffice for the permanent wants ol the country. But among onr fiscal laws, some ooght to bi adapted to the changes in eur social state. There are some which have heen relaxed, anil hence voids and inequalities, which otfonrt public morals and equity as much as the interests ot tbe Treasury. We present measures herewith to strengthen the receipt ot taxes and generalise the application of them. We shall immediately ask for a new law to ensure tbe col lection of the stamp-iinty, and other taxes of the kind. It is time to remind citizvnsof a social duty, too little respected. No one has a right to treat taxation as an enemy it ought not to he eluded, but submitted to. In enumerating the different branches of the revenue, I shall be •bilged to speak of reform and ameliorations. The sum of direct csntribntion for 1842 is estimated at 806,054,fll0f. t of which 28fl,030,1105 are applied to the ge neral services of the budget,and 110,024 5005 to departmental and parochial expenses. The 5,377,8001'. or excess, which this estimation shows, compared with the budget of 1841, m y be divided into two eqnal parts of which one, resnltiDg from the increase of the taxes and patent payers, is added to the profit of tbe general fond, and the other, representing th# augmentation in depart mental and local taxation, must be omitted in that specifi cation. As to indirect taxes, we must take onr estimates from the most recent facts and returns. The duties on registry have produced, in 1840, 192,845,4005 6,000.0005 more than the preceding year. Takiog this re suit for the basis of our valuations, we are confident that the progress of industry and commerce will cause this branch of our revenue to increase and prosper. We will also pro pass same amelismtions. A inode of regulating the duty on the transference of cfflees will be comprised in the law of recettes for 1842. Tb# law ot 1832, has proportioned this tax to the security money which is indiscreet. Tbe laws to be proposed will remove this incurrectne?# and inequality, and im prove this branch of the public revenue by full 800,0005 Tha stump duty glv s a revenue dispreportioned to the progress of affairs The increase of this tax is too small, and attests tbe insufficiency of legislation. The circulation of unstamped bills has resisted penalty and legal prohibition, und a severer system has been re-cstntnended by tbe late Parliamentary C#mstission. By imitating the energetic sanction that a neighbouring nation has given to its Legislature la this respect, an im per bint increase of revenue may be secured A committee is now employed examining tbisquestlov, and is preparing a law, that will be ready this session. In the meantime wo estimate the stamp daty bat for the sum of 34,250,0805, the same as the um which it give in 1839 A diminution of 635,0005 is providod for bv the produce of the domains and ol the mobilising objects belonging to the state, valued at 5,044,0005 We shall, however, realise ia the course of 1842 a portion ot the prica of tha domanial salt mines of the east, which will be fur sale so in after the liquidation of the present exploitation but the receipts will b? weakened, on tbh oiu r hand, by the cessation ot accidental causes, and by the alienation all bat entirely consummated of the einmeublcs sad of the available property arising from the former extraordinary domaia. The produce of tbe foils of wood of th state is car ried In the budget for the rim uf 30,312,5005, which it has bean valued at for 1841 it is the tniaa receipt of th# years 1838, 1837, and 1833, which have been generally favourable to the trade of wood. Notwith standing the foil occasioned in 1839 by the bad working of tbe forges, tbe admiaistration estimates that by tseans of the amelioration of the routes foresticres,.and by the as sistance of the conservators of the sales, it will obtain the receipt intended. Respecting the m?aa produce of the forests, and the right of fishing, the valuation is carried to 2,807,5005 it exceeds by 204,0005 that of last year, and is based on the increase realised in 1838 arid 1839, for 319,OOOf, and compensated up to 115,0005 by some reductions. The actual mod# of recovery, for the benefit of the treasury, ot'he expanses of tbe administration, of the woidsofcom-tnuries, and of th# public establishments lias caused nume rous claims to bo ina le, and the inconvenience thereof has been detailed at length by your list omimssion of finance, in Its report on ways and means of 1841. The law of 1791, which place! those woods under the same regime as ■he domtnial Isivs, attributed t the Treasury, to cover it of tba expanses of their administratioa, a decline by franc on the produce of what is cut and sold, and posterior laws added dati s tor that cut naturally. In 1827 the project of the Code Forestier propisel the maintenance of that syst#ni with Home modifications but an amendment to article 106 introdne-d in that respect an essen'ial alteration, by sub stituting for the produce of tbe falls an additional tax to the contribution foueiere established on timber, and divided pro rata that contribution. Tnis Hew mode, which made a tax weigh oo certain department much heavier than the disbursements with which it bad to indemnify the Trea sury, provoked complaints which it wsa necessary to justi'v, in th? fi-st place, by local enactments, ami in short, in 1837, by u legislative disposition which annulled the Code Forestier, by which each department would be taxed no longer with a proportionate contingent, but with the nmount of th# expenses for the administration of the timber. That sys'ern did not engender less claims than the pre ceding one they arose from localitiee where the wood ground is less productive, and some of which see the re-v tiae of their timber entirely absorbed by the expenses f the administration. Your commission of the budget was struck it reemmaanded to the government to make a special study of tbe basis which ought, for the future, to be adopted for the division ot the expenses of the ad ministration of the timber of communes and of public establishments. Tiiat analysis has indaced as to ac knowledge that there exists, at the bottom of ex perienced systems since 1827, a cause tor illegality and eomDlaint, which cannot disappear but by toe return to tbe true principles of tbe Wx. It is in pronortion to the revenue that it must be established, and on the revenua itself, as often as it can b appreciated and attained. Wherefore the revenue of tiaiber is exactly repres mted by the price of the sales, and bv the value of the animal deliveries to the i affsnogister. We propose, consequently, to re-establish tiie annual leee oo that produce, as under th? regime of th? law of 1791, bnt by reducing it to a twentieth, instead of I have attained the prices which we consider belong to them Gentlemen, yoa how khow the whole ofanr finnockjtl sitgatiei Yon Have under your eyes a complete jiicture of our watH , and the resources we have prepared to meet them. The views which we now snbrait may be summed up ia a fow words. The Government believes in place, und because it so be lieves, it does not ask of you to stop the progress given, for same years, to the works of peace. In this view we make an appeal to credit-the resources which we ask, in waiting till their normal destination be accomplished, will yield to the treasnry a temporary assistance, and aid in bearing the weight# of oar deficits, which will ha covered by degrees by the consolidation of the successive reserves of th# Sinking Fund. It is by taxes that we provide for the expenses of our civil and military state, increased by the accidental charges imposed on us by the political situation of Europe. Bat la order that these taxes bs sufficient, it is necessary to fortily them by divers measures, which we wi'.i submit successively to your sanction, and which, in suppressing fraud and generalising farther the benefit of proportional equa lity, will assnre to th# treasury most abundant results The financial system ol tha government should be the faithful expression of Its political sy t m. The budget, which we present to you, has been conceived in the spiiit of peace and the preservation of peace, which I and my colleagues have accpted In taking uoon ns the re sponsibility ot affairs. This task, gentlemen, we would have declined, if we had not the intimate con viction that a good understanding between the great Powers of Europe might be confirmed und maintained en conditions honourable and sure to our country. If our con fUence is not ill-founded, a iittl# time and a few effort# will suffice to replace in our budgets a durable equilibrium, and restore the prospnritv of our finances. That, gentlemen, is neeessary to enable France to maintain its elevated rank among Hitious. permasent in- ! u decline by Iranc it is the object of article 5 of the project •V' ' r ™ ! sheets of paper, and commcnc s, In the name of God. im 4 000 OOOf. ■ f l' w on t 1 receipts, the mitws of whiebpuud the ad van- oetter than those made in England. After they had nmnn w 'j i p . n i P mn thiahhsnhomoua Droatitution of War explain ' ta es, will h more umply detailed to you jn the develop- I played fast and loose with the people of Worcester in such , f f . Ai m ,vhtv Giver of all eoodness to m H a r y barns' j annexed fo .the budget, Tne Treasury Urecerer a very, honourable manner-after,, to gratify their hatred LT'lck d' SrtL? ™# ei h andfoM The Royal Paras.-The following new ar rangements relative to the keepers and the distribution of venison from the Royal Parks, appear in the annual re port for 1840 of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, which is just published Various complaints having been made both as to the quality and supply of the veni son from the royal forests and parks by the parties who have hitherto, with the sanction of the Sovereign, been permitted to receive the same, we received direc tions from the Lords Commissioners of her Maieitv's Treasury to make inquiries into the supply and distribu tion of the venision from each of the royal forests and parks, and to advise their lordships as to the measures which should appear to us to be the best adapted to remedy the evils complaiocd of. Tne result of these inquiries was such as to induce their lordships to sub mit to her Majesty the expediency of placing the whole supply, including that for the royal table, under the supervision and direction of this board that the keepers should not be allowed to receive the fees and perquisites which heretofore had made a considerable portion of their income, but that they should be paid annual fixed salaries that they should be res'rioted in the keep of cattle in the parks to one or two caws, and to n sufficient number of horses only for the proper exe cution of their duties, to which they should devote their whole time and attention and that they should send to the parties having her Majesty's venison the whole buck or doe, except the held, skin, and offal. Hor Majesty,was graciously pleased to signify her ap proval of these arrangements, and we were authorised by the Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury to carry the same into effect. For that purpose it has been found necesstry, under the sanction of the Lords Com inis,toners of her Majesty's Treasury, to discon tinue the services of some of tho old keepers, and to award them superannuation allowances in proportion to their length of service. To Lieu-ten nit-Colonel Chester, who held the office of clerk of the venison warrants, their lordships have sanc tioned a rotired allowance of 150 . per annum and to the gentleman who acted as his deputy, 30 per annum. A warrant for her Majesty's approbation and signature is prepared at the commencement of every season, which includas the whole supply for the saason und warrants to the respective keepers arc issued by us to the parties mentioned in the said warrant, on their paying at our office a foe of 1 . 6s. for a buck, and 13s. for a do# and the sums so collected are applied to the payment of tha keepers' salaries and the retired allowances. W# have reason to believe that this arrangemont will not be at tended with any considerable charge upon tbe funds of our department, and that it will fully answer the purpose for which it has been put in force. The American Engines on the Gloucestrr and Birmingham Railway.-Two accidents happened upon this line on Saturday morning last, to tho train which leaves Gloucester for Birmingham at eight o'clock ia tiie morning, both fortunately unittended by any other consequences to the passengers than delay in both we hear to th# American engines. The first took piac# soon after the train left the Spetchley station, and, fortunately, before a high velocity was attained. One of the small wheels of the engine broke, to the great alarm of the passengers as well as of the driver and steker, who jumped off' tiie engine, and, providentially, escaped without injury. The train was necessarily delayed until another engine was procured from Spetchley. This second engine took the train safely to within some few hundred yards of Camphill Station, whsrc the fire bars, and, consequently, the fire, tumbled out upon the road, leaving the train to be hauled to its destination by some forty or fifty men, after a delay of some hours. We have since learned that another accident fortunately un-attended with injury to life or limb occurred on Monday by tha breaking of another of the small wheels. These, we presume, are the engines which the company sent for all the way to Philadelphia, and which, front that circum stance, it might be imagined, were expected to be of a very superior construction and enduring quality. However, these repeated accidents do not say much in their favour, and would seem to show that Jonathan can get up things on the cheap and nasty system as well as ourselves. It was a pity the company should go to a rival country for engines, which should be after all no L. E. L. To the EDITOR oe the MORNING CHRONICLE. Sia-In all the London papers of the 25th instant, there appeared a report of so.ne proceedings at the Lant-betb-street Police-office tho day before, in the course of which Mrs. Bailey erroneously called by the reporter Moroner made some extraardinary statements respecting the conduct of individuals said to have called upon her for the purpose of extractiog information respecting the death of the late Mrs. L. E. Maclean, and of obtaining from her certain important documents which Mrs. Bailey hinted she had in her possession. I had previously heard the same tale from Mrs. Bailey herself, and, as the only friend of Mr. Maclean in town, ' was engaged, when the above report appeared in the pa pers, in examining the statement with the care required by the woman's position and past conduct. I was aware that she had been closely questioned, on her return home thirteen months ago, as to her knowledge of the circum stances attending Mrs. Maclean's death, by the relatives of both Mr. and Mrs. Maclean, and that she had been also rather eagerly canvassed by some other parties, who have wished-1 will not venture to conjecture from what motives-to raUrepresent the causes of that lamented event. I also knew that nothing had been elicited from hor by the friends or enemies of either party to give the slightest colour to the calumnies put forth on the subject. I felt surprised, therefor#, on being told by Mrs. Bailey that renewed inquiries had been made of her under circumstances so extraor dinary by persons refusing to give their names, and still more surprised at some of the improbable details of her story. Finding, however, that she had brought the matter under the notice of the police, 1 determined on having the statement thoroughly Investigated, and for that purpose applied to the commissioners for their assistance in the matter. Colonel Rowan very promptly and politely ap pointed Inspector Hughes of the A division to conduct the inquiry-a full report of which i9 in the hinds of th# commissioners. I merely inclose the result-an admission on the part of Mrs. Bailey of the entire falsehood of her statements. I hereby declare that the statement which 1 made to Mr. Norton, at the Lambeth Police-office, on Thursday last, to the effect that l had been visited by different persons, some of them apparently of distinction, coming in their carriages, and requiring me to give up documents which I alleged to have in my possession, in reference to tho death of the late Mrs. Maclean, is entirely unfounded that no such persons called upon me, and that I am pos sessed of no sueh documents or papers of importance, but merely the statements of what took place when I arrived. I very sincerely regret having been led by the public ex citement on this subject to invent these stories. It is tru# that I embarked with Mrs. Maclean as her personal servant at Portsmouth, and attended her in that capacity up to the time of her death at Cape Coast Castle but I hereby solemnly declare that I never saw or heard of anything to justify the calumnies which have been circulated against her husband on the subject ol liar death. I neither saw nor heard of any ill-treatment, nor do I believe Mr. Maclean capable of any of those things which 1 have heard laid to his charge by public rumour. Ellen Emily Bailf.y's mark my name , E. B. Witnessed the above initials, signed by Mrs. Bailey, in presence of her mother, Mrs. Moroner. Signed Samuel Hughes, December 31,1840. Inspector A. division. It is singular that the first of the calumnious fables founded on the death of Mrs. Maclean, susceptible of ac curate examination, should have terminated in so speedy and complete an exposure of the author. Would that the cowardly insiouators who have so deeply wounded the feelings of the unfortunate husbind had reduced their stories, even in any one instance, to a form sufficiently tangible to admit of similar analysis and refutation ! I am sorry to add that I have reason to believe that the extraordinary fabrications of Mrs. Bailey are not the last links which remain to be broken of the chain of falsehood by which it has been sought to enthral the character of my friend for the sako of pandering to the public appetite for scandal. But his absenco from this country, added to tho iadofinite nature of the charges against him, have hitherto afforded impunity to his libellers, which it may not be safe for them always to rely upon.-I am. Sir, your obedient servant, M. FORSTER. New City Chambers, Dec. 31, 1840. CHURCH AND STATE IN SCOTLAND. A TRACT FOR THE TIMES. raoit the Scotsman J The Times had two long articles last week on our Non-pensc, and to their degradation, , without entering their energetic protest against the parties who did this, and tha government which abetted th.m in it. They are entitled to speak boldly, for they stand upon nigh g'round they 1 lf C4 liau IWO 1 vug aiHGUC l Sl VII UUI xUll- I I - M Intrusion controversy, and otlffer collateral topics, remark- j a im P e J u ce, and nothing more, able for ignorant blundering and unscrupulous mis-state- ' ments, and well exemplifying the nonsense and absurdity which can be palmed on the people of England respecting Scotch affairs. We shall notice a few of the leading points, and first for blunders -The Times informs us, that there is a certain constitutional newspaper in Edinburgh, which, though zealous in reprobating the general policy of the Whigs, advises its readers to oppose every Par liamentary candidate who declines to go all lengths in supporting the ultra Non-Iotrusionists. We thought we had a tolerable knowledge of the Edinburgh preis, but wc confess wo can discovor no such newspaper as the one here described. 1 here are three papers zealous enough in reprobating the policy of the Whigs, tit# Advertiser. Post, and Standard, but they arc equally zealous in repro bating the policy f the Non-Intrusion party There arc two papers which advocate the views of the latter parly, the Mercury and H'ifness, but they are botli decided' friends to tbe present government. The certain con stitutional newspaper in Edinburgh' has no existence except in the imagination of the omniscient Times' The dissensions in the church are deplored as marring the hopes of the Conservative party, which aronow.it seems, brighter than ever in proof of which we are favoured with the following precious morsel of mandauious nonsense -According to our information, there is now sufficient strength in the cities of Perth and Aberdeen, as well as ia the district constituencies of Elgin, Inverness, St. An drews, and Jedburgh, to ensure tho return of Conserva tive members at the next election. Erom a paragraph which lately appeared in our paper, we also learn, that at a recent dinner at Cheltenham, Major Anderson the Conservative candidate for the Lanark boroughs not only announced his absolute certainly of unseating Mr. Radical Gillon-a statement which the late registrations in that quarter completely confirm, but further declared his conviction, that no fewer than six seats in the south and west of Scotland were at present ready to rid themselves of their several ministerial occupants. Wc believe this to be strictly true and the scats in question, as wc suppose, arc those I dates for the representation of Walsall, as ta the repeal of Argyllshire Dumbar onshtre Kirkcudbright, together of the corn law. We have put the question to Mr. Lyt-with those of the district boroughs of Ayr, Dumfries and j telton, and wc have aleo respectfully to request the £ W wn ' ... , D .... courtesy of your reply by letter, or that you will favour u w, as to the cities of i erth and Aberdeen, wc can with a personal interview Wc have the honour to he, affirm with perfect confidence, that if the Liberal church. ! sir. your obedient servants, WALSALL ELECTION. Birmingham, Wednesday Night. TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTOBS Ot THE SOKOL H OP walsall. . Gentlemen-When I had the honour of first address, mg you, offering myself a candidate to represent thia borough ia tbe Commons' House of Parliament, 1 calcu. lated with confidence on the undivided and zealous sup port of every class of the Libaral part . i have now completed a personal canvas of the electors, and 1 regret to say that, in many instances where I had every reason to expect prompt and cordial support, I have ir.et with cither lukewarm neutrality or decided opposition, in addition to these discouraging circumstances, I have had to encounter the avowed hostility of the ageats from the Anti-Corn-law League deputed to oppose me, and whose opposition has destroyed my chance of being returned as your representative, by dividing the Liberal interest. Nothing but a firm conviction of the hopelessness of suc cess founded upon these obstacles, would have induced me to relinquish my prospects of representing your borough, but l am now persuaded that any continuance of this strug gle in the present state of parties would only injure the cause to which l am pledged. In retiring from the present con test, I beg to return my most sincere and heartfelt thanks to those honest and consistent Liberals who have rendered me their able assistance and support.-I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your most faithful, obedient, and hum ble servant, Spencer Lyttelton. Walsall, Tuesday Evening. Walsall Election lo order to prevent any pos sible misunderstanding on th# subject, Mr. Gladstone'! friends think it right to publish a latter which he received from three gentlemen, calling themselves a deputation from the Anti-Corn-law League, together with his reply thereto. ' George Hotel, Dec. 28, 1840. ' Sir-Wc have been deputed by the ' National Anti-Gorn-iaw League' to ascertain the opinions of the oandi-men nod dissenters act together as heretofore, no Con servative candidate lias the slightest chance of success. Nay, though there has been no want of overtures from persons of that party, so hopeless is tiie cause felt to be, , that we greatly doubt if any one of them will come to the scratch when an election takes place. If Major Anderson uttered the words which the Tune, I O I William Kawbon. ' Archibald Prentice. ' James Act and. To J. N. Gladstone, Esq., tec.' attributes to him, his future eoguotnen ough . to be Mayo Longbow! This gentleman vapoured j n the same stele in ' George Hotel, Walsall, ' Tuesday Morning, Dec. 29, 184 1. ' Gentlemen-I had the honour to receive your , Q , . , - . , • - ......... j letteref yesterday at nine o'clock last night. To the 1837, but took special care not to bring his vapouring# to ! electors und inhabitants of Walsall I shall at all timc9 b the proof when the election afforded him an opportunity, j most ready to explain my opinions on ail questions of We know the state of parties in the Lanark and Falkirk j public interest but I cannot recognise the right of the burghs at least as well as this Major Longbow, and we can . Anti-Corn-law League, or anv other league, to send de-assurc him that, it ho contest the district with Mr. Gii- put.ations to catechise candidates, or interfere in the ion on the present registrations, he will be beaten by u I politics of places to which thev are strangers, majority of a hundred at the least. I ■ 1 shall take every opportunity to explain publicly v lien such is the Major'sdeclining to enter upon lessness of tho statements as to the three counties would i the subject of the Corn-laws.-1 have the honour to be. ECCLESIASTICAL COURTS. FURTHER PARTICULARS OP MR. HILL'S CASE-PRACTICE OF THE ECCLESIASTI CAL COURT. To the EDITOR of the MORNING CHRONICLE. Sia Mr. Hill has been the victim of two tithe suits in the Exeter Ecclesiastical Court, in both of which may be seen the worst features of this iniquitous tribunal. The first suit arose from his vicar claiming agistment tithes, which Mr. Hill alleged were exempt under his composition. The vicar demanded a certain sum fixed on by his surveyor and would never give the particulars of the amount. Mr. Hill, refusing to pay unless ho knew what the d -ntand was for, was cited on the 24th of September, 1839. On the 11th of October the !ib l was filed but this de claring generally like a bill in Chancery , and not specifying the particulars of tithe due, of course it could not be seen what wore the Items in dispute, and rather than wait or the issuing a commission to take evidence, when the expenses would be 305 or 40 ., Mr. Hill yielded to the vicar's demand, and paid 11 . costs, although only the second step in the suit had been taken, and the have been obvious if the worthy gentleman had gone into any details. The representative of Argyllshire beat his opponent at the last election by a majority of 250. This was in IS37,and the whole registrations from 1830 down to 1840 have only added 58 voters to the roll! We doubt, too, if Monzic's strange freaks have raised him in the estimation of the electors. It is equally well known that no change has taken place since Mr. Murray's recent triumph in Kirkcudbrightshire, which can endanger his seat and if there be any such Conservative gain in tho county ol Dumbarton as to shake the security of Mr. Colquhoun, we would surely have heard of it through some more authentic channel. The same remark will apply to tho burghs of Wigtown, Ayr, and Dumfries. Had Conservatism achieved any victory there, our contemporary the Aiver. User would have sung pains over it long ere this. As for tho Wigtown burghs, which were Liberal before, there is not a doubt that the transference of the vast estates of the Earl of Stair from a Tory to an excellent Whig, has rendered the ascendancy of Liberalism still more secure in that district. The whole statement, in fact, as to these counties and burghs, is a piece of pure imagination, pro ceeding from the brains of Major Longbow, and swal lowed by the gullible Cockney editor, wc verily believe. from pure ignorance. Of course, tiie Times says nothing about the counties of Caithness und Wigtown, which it is gentlemen, your most obedient servant, ' J. N. Gladstone. To Messrs. Rawson, Prentice, and Aeland.' from a correspondent. Walsall, Thursday Evening, Four o'clock. As you are aware, Mr. Lyttelton, the only Liberal candidate who offered himself to the electors of this borough, hat been compelled to resign the contest by the misconduct of tho Anti-Corn-law gentry. Mr. Foster, jun., was pre vailed upon by them to come forward in their interest, but he has also declined, and the field is now in the un disputed possession of Mr. Gladstone. The utmost tom foolery is being played off by Mr. Aeland, tho Anti-Corn-law Lecturer, and Mr. RawsonJ and Mr. Prentice, through whose mischievous interfereaee the bereugh ia reduced to its present condition. A meeting was held last night at the Dragon Assembly Rooms, convened by Mr. Aeland, for the purpose of considering the position ia which they were placed by Mr. Foster, jun., declining to stand. After a great deal of nonsense, it was announced by Mr. Aeland that the Anti-Corn-law League would not scad a candidate unless there was a requisition sent from the electors. A requisition, miserably sigaed, was got up. and sent off express to Manchester, and, while 1 am now writing, a new candidat# is expected, la the event ot the League not sending up a man, Mr. Aeland will stand next to certain will be rescued from the Conservatives at the contest, without the least possible chance of tho next election! It is hinted that if the Torias were at one on the church question, they might oust Mr. Kllicc from the Fife burghs. This piece of intelligence is surely from Major Longbow too, for it bears his mark. The truth is, the Liberal party is more securo in these burghs than it was at the last election. It is, in fact, too strong to lie as sailed. success. A meeting is announced for this evening, at eight o'clock, at the Dragon Assembly Rooms, when Mr. Aeland is to address the handful of electors who may meet him. Whilst this worse than twaddling nonsense is going on, the Tories aie all alive and turning every incident to account. Mr. Glad stone has gone through a good deal ef his canvass, and hie committee announce that he has received promises of 70 In the Inverness burghs Mr. Morrison beat the Tory i votes more than won the last election. It is, however. increase of effective forces produces a crease width does not amount to less than The particalars published by the Minister in detail the increased expenditure tbe cinses may ...- ,- . , ■ _ , . , ------ . ■ - • # -'Uinin 'd up. The increase of bodies and the increase of the sum nearly equivalent to its expanse of administration,' towar ds what they foolishly and narrow-mindedly re-tbe effective mea and horsp have increased the annual . ® n which we include in onr valuation for l,.job. uu. i yarded ai a rival citycede the consummation of the expenses to iniet it is applied, will nid the Treasury to snpport the 'eight of tbe deficits. The progressive extension ofthem 'ill be combined with the progress of the public works, so as u leave no chance of perturbation ill the service. The mca-tire whi rb is the object of our second proposition, appears 0 us to be founded in principle, aad useful in its appli-utioe. Itr ason and justice require that tbe future, which Gil -oHt of the enterprises of public utility, should sup-i?t tb? greatest part of the expense which they occa-'0m. Public credit will answer our anp'al, if we reqaire aspital, but to Incorporate it with tiie civil und to increase be opulence of i Vatic?, the security of her creditors. You ot also remnrk that, when the public works are to be paid 1 tbe loan, th? ro.Vs of expenditure must n cessarily be 1 portioned to the effective measures, and kept within cer-ilti bonnds whereas if, on the eoutrary, the resources of i? sinking fund arc employed, a vague idea of an exhuust-M resource leads to expens' not always commanded the general interest of the cooBtry. Among the rks that tbe Administrations of Mar and Marine about te undertake, some do uot deserve the qualitt-etion of extraordisary. Th y are, nevertheless, of such I nature that the expense once made will not again occur o! this consideration appears sufficient for them to be ItHuded in the project ot law which willshortly b laid bc-' rp vou. Another motive induces ns to act thus. Tiie snrms und the making of powder 4,218,OOOf for the troop# iu huts 5,820,0005 for fortificati' ns and buildings fir the us of the military 890,0005 on account oi the increased price of materials aid jirovisions and about 4,000,0005 for nnprovina th# supply ot the wauls of the urray in Africa The Minister ot War keeps up, for 1842, the aannnt of 1,050,0005 the credit intended as n provisional amount for military pensions, and which is the oojset of a special law. This la w reproduces in the same terms as theprec vllng tho article relating to the special and extraordinary wo-k to he executed in Algoria, hot it pro poses some qjodiheations In the heads f the services In tbe war department, for which sapplimentary credits may he opened by royal ordinances it additonally lnclndes the purchase of tuo , which has hitherto been included In prepared rations,but which it is better tostatesppcittcally then the pay of reform, which is to appear in the votes as well us the psy of non-activity, which is included therein salaries of the men employed ia' the manufacture ef powder and salt-peue, nn expense which Increases iu proportion to the amount of demand. The naval and colonial department re quires 127,390,4005, but this includes a sum of 14 millions, j quite an accidental receipt, a renewal of which is not to be desired we fear no mistake iu admitting au equal revenue lor 1842. In short, the-cbeupuess of provision , by ex ploding foreign coro.ciu hut favour other consumotioDs pro ductive for the Treasury. The law ot the 31 ot Jaly last, on the sugars, insures us b-sides a more than snlticl.nt coinp'H'ation, 87 admitting only the valuation of the duties to collect on tha exotic sugars, such as has been nlopted for the budget of 1841. The indirect contributions have been valued according to the realiza tions of the year 1840. First, resp-cting colonial sugar, we thought to be enabled, by the progressive develop ment of th? manufacture, to udd three millions of kilo gramra-s to the quantities produced by the last crop. Vc, therefore, calculate that the new daty of 255 reckoned upon a qmntity of 27,000,000 kilogrammes, the which, united to 81.000 000 supplied by exoiic sugars, will bring tc 107.000. 000,the mean consumption of the last five years Hence arises for th# contributions indirecles, not including th? tobacco, a total receipt of 139,350,0005 It would offer 36.000. 0005 to 40,000,0005 more, if at the end of the year 1830 the tariff's en beverage had not been reduced one-third. The t v nlic revenue no longer sufficing for the ©rdinjry necev-h.vsof the state, it is n ees ary as well as regular to exo-•ate the budget from the expenses which ere not Hgain to ske e'ace. It is hut by acting in this manner thntw'shall ' hi,' to propsse that equilibria!! which you ask us to re-a sh ish, mid which it is ur duty to effect, unless prevented uliti.'al necessities, ientlemen, the plan we submit to ■ar disce-omeut is very siinp'e, and the lo'iowing rnnv be -idcred 3 a sumraarv ot its results -You will efface ' th the Sinking Fund, if circumstances favour tha riedieits of 1840, 1841, and 1842, In the pure of a fow years at the end of which F a will find this powe-fnl resource increased by corn-p md interest. Y u will secureth? termination of tbegreat ''ks of public utility bv a s and means not expos-d to 11 ire. Independentlyolthesorevaits,vouchii,if.'aerge'icallv ktl ted, increase th? revenue of the state so us to equal Its -ej'. lti's, without creating new taxes or augmenting tariff ■lice. 'Te will exp'.ai t tbia when we speak ol r-eeipts. I ave nr. w to refer 11 the nec-s itiea of th? year 1842 lu • appreciation of public expenses, we have endeavsured to fet'lude lrom the law of ii sauce no ordinary expens?, and lo render anv supplementary credits necessary by f--iens or in-HViv? estimates All tbe vxpensea re-?rd to keep our civil and military organizttioii are in-fi l-d in tbe hodg-t More you we have Included therein forest of the sinking food bonds, the allowances for F-'s-rsiou fund, and 01 her expense not contained in for-■'budgets. Tre bndgot of 1842 .v' y therefore be coa-'fod as a faithful and e-i !UD 'etetable the ordinary neces. ef tho state. Ve hi 0 omitted the expenses of P'Ttordionry public works. Hjt l does noi enter into p thoughts that this b-imr place,J in P special budget ' ruts them being included Uo in . he gtaersl one. Af the vote of the law of expense the emu D'signed t 'h will he inserted in the genera! budget. The c debt presents n with the icaaiog service lb we have to pass in review. It figu' 49 H budget under tour divisions-the consolida ' t, loans tor canal- and other work-, easi 1 timbursed in different ways, nd annuities. I-e. n'mlnientsliavo reduced tbeamoantot Five par Ceuta r-'u-i b 2 8115, while the Three per Cents, have Increased 44f. t y 1 he indemnity to emigrants. On tbe other aide, the f'Ms've c msolidation of the reserve of the sinking fand pfo ! t th. 1 credit demanded for tbe Four per Cants, by a P® 1 13,004,3575, composed of 11,122,3575 demanded as a foment of .'ell, and ot 1,94!,0005 tor the service ef lgyj. 'inking fund, with itedotution of 44,616,4635 prem,, it? rentes bought out. will dispose, in 1842, of a suai - ''7c, ..'f. Let ns congratulate onrsvlvea ou onr having r J'tved tb's puissant made of Jiteration. It is most I ?! ti u? under present circumstances, aod it at once fore '• 's public credit aod aide the Treasury. The charge of which, according the special law of July 10, 1840, is tj be - - .. . . ... applied t? the building of steamers for transatlantic nuvi- j advan'ugfl? attached to the tsxsflf eonsmnpti in, niacins gition and the preparations for the service. If this tarelly follow the progress of pablic prosperity, inade It b. preparations occidental cause of esnsase be deducted, which is not a ivi-nlnr expens ■ attached to the riyal nsvy, tbe credit for l '?eH?r4 and colonial establishments is reduced to the snot of 1 , 4290,4005 With the proposed credits the Minister of Marine w 1 ! ke p np to their present footing the naval lores th# #9 tive of tfcn crew?, the raariaes and artillery. The increased e' oen8e ' 8'stribnted on all the !e-b'lievcd that, in the necessity in which we are tose-k fresh re sources to satisfy theexigeuciesof the situation, the moment was arrived to remodel the tariff of the beverages to the figure of the year 1829. If we do not offer any proposition in this view, we thought at lent that it was indisp'iissble to pro vide the means of obtaining from tho present tariffs all that they can prcluee, by legislating for certain ameliorations them partmente of the marine, and we can to the detailed pat -' eu !?, r8 w i cb aecouot by legislative clupfo-rs. The necessary credit# for the g?-n?rul e?rvice of the Minister . f F' anc r e ar ™ ewba ol11 ' fled, which produces a reduction ' 0 ?® vo to poiut out hut a reduction 310,0001., arising from the termiuition of the cadastre jo some depart ments, and an increase of 270,OOOf. fc th6 Irea-urr charges, in consequence of extraordinary expenses which brinq with them increased charges. However, the relation of these charges to the expanse continues at the mo derate rate of 13c for lOOf The expense of invwfem nt and collection of taxes show an increase of 3,244,OUOf., und a diminution of 340,OOOf. The increase pro ceeds from 1,025,000f. for a stock of tobacco and management of the manufacture of sunff, the oonsumption of which continue to increase 281,600f. for the purchase of powder 304 560f. for poundage and other charges atten dant on collection, vi . tho extraordinary departmental taxes 233,OOOf. for customs, including 12,OOOf. of bonding charges, which will he reloaded by the towns 58,000£ for PosSoffica charges, in consequence of the fourth horse to mail ouches, increased sp ed, correction of raeH urerBent of distance , and contracts for conveyance 85,280f. for the keeping up the two supplimcnUrv steam boats, in virtue of the law of 6 July, 1840, in the Mediter ranean and, finally, some accessary expenses. The re ductions arise from the clothing of the carriers, the pay to the postmasters newly appointed, on the price of fuel for the steam-packets, and on the charges of superintend ing the Salt-works del'JSst these charges will stop in 1845, in consequence of the cancelling of the lease to the company, and of the new system founded on the Ihw of 17 June, 1840. It is proposed, under the head of Management, to transpose credits from gdi chapter or credit to others, which are the consequence of u new ar rangement of services, which you will be able to judge of. We have to m otloa a branch mail from Tours to Havre, which will supplv with adv n ! a.rs the projected line from Nantes to Rauen for the letters from Bordeaux to Htyre. We have to mention tbe transfer in the forest service of the chapter oi sundries to the personal ofa sum of 50,030?., intended to employ the new forest surveyors in the important work of remeasurin' the falls, th 1 surveying of the a menage mens, and w rk to be executed in the forests. This measure is in conformity to thn wish expressed by the last finance cammission. The last part of the hadget, relative to repayment and non valeurs, gives an augmentation of 1,334,2501. It proceeds from -in increase in the direct contributions in cons?quence of the new register of constructions und patents or ad ditional faxes voted by Mnnicip.il Councils. I come, gentlemen, to unrol b fore you the exact statement of the charges of the count! y. The budget presented to yon exceeds by 190,000,OOOf. that which you voted Inst session. Hut we have joined to it exoen s left Jut ot the budget of 1841 to th amount of 40,000,000f., for which we have been obliged to provide by supplementaly credits. With r sp°ct to this mass of expeme , which amounts to l,316,000,0f0f., the sum of the public revenue, estimated at 1,102,000,OOOf. according to the revolts of the present year, offer an insuffi-eje-y amonatiog to 154,000,OOOf. And it the expenses be cftlcolatt' 4 according to a peace establishment • if, setting aai ip th . i. rdiotry charges, we reduce it to a nominal ata- the insu r° ,encv of wa j and ra?aBS 8liU 144 000,0005, IZot i.ic.rJlBftthv intsreets of tke.mer-tissement ef the ne v rent's v 'V h wo propose to cren e. Of ell he facts just offered for your wditations, this call for most attention. A great nation, like ears, can saphor 1 accidental charge t without alarm -And it Is with a y ew to such contioffencies, which the earrapt ot event# will now and the! brior back to existence, tba- W 1 8aal1 e care to atreuirtaen credit, which gins W r °' in it. But when the ordinaty rcwurces ot 8 country cease to ke on i level with ita perwaient chargee, refer i which it claims for a length of time. It is with that view that we submit to you soma fresh reitulatian . r# have considered it just to limit the right of circulation infavonrof tho proprietor ia juit limits, t. e., restrain it to the produce of his hurveet that he destines to his own con sumption. Beyond this it would be privilege, and ought not to b? setfered. The fourth allowed to toe seller iu detail of his own produce is, for the same reason, to he withheld. A gen-na! eystem, too, with respect to tho sals of spirits in town9 ought to he adopted and a new base for the conversion of liquors into alcohol adopted Th# sale of tobacco in 1810 has produced 94,458,0005 The estimate of it for 1842 i. 96,000,0005 The sale ot lands is valued in the estimate of 1842 at 5 357.OOOf the same as in 1610. We hopo from the Pest-office 47,025,5005, the same as that obtained in the last twelve months, diminished by a sain of lOO.OOOf ,by the suppression ot Corsican packet-boats. In tine, the different products, iu which are iucluded certain sp-ciai revenues, such as the retribution of tbe University, and of Algeria, amount to 39.486,5825 This estimate exoeeds that of the last budget by 740,0005 The aug mentation procoeds from tho estimated value of tenders to he d-livcrcd by the War Minister to ihe war and finacce department, and from the increase of the reserve labours, from the expenses of the materiel of marine, venue for 1840. It amounts, as we have already said, to ,161,838,1425 to be divided thus - Francs. Direct contributions 3-ifi 054 6 0 Indirect taxes and revenue. 695.757.500 Pndoee of domains and wood 39,744,500 Diverse revenue and produce 30,281,532 1,161,838.142 It now remains ta consider the extraordinary wiys and mo ms which circumstances call for, nnd which form, with tne disposition, habitually destined to facilitate the servi-'e, the eh ect of the last chapter of the law of receipts. We nk of you, then, to aothoiise as ta Inscribe on the great book of the pnblic debt, and to negotiate with publicity and competition the sum af rentes necessary ta bring to the trea sury, a the result of the op a ration, a capital of 150 000,OOOf Yoa will feet, gentiera-n, with wlut circum?pectlon our ex planations should be aecomnanied on this important m resure, and what reserv Is Imposed on ns to ensure success, in satis fying all the conditions which rule operations of this nature. The facts speak too highly to year lodgment aod to ours, that we are not called on to a tify the great latitude which shou'd h given to the resources 'acod at th dispo sition of govornment You ha p seceded that latitude in times le?s difficult. I twos in 1837 but a secondary consider ation, it is low indisp a nsible. The loan which we ask of yon to authorise should balance, in the first instance, the wants of the treasorv, and finally discharge the expenses of pnblic works and the extranrrtinaries for all services. It will h hown to you l-am'dlately that the 4-50,000,OOOf will b? abso'b-d by the works for which it Is required. In all cos?, the realization ot a loan will not he tmm diato. The Treasury ha? a reserve which is still 120,000,0005, and it is for a goodadmiaistration to increase the balance in chest beyond measure, and onse the loss of fntere t for which na' adequate compensation can he received. Therefore, we '-ave rot demanded any crelit for the service of rentes to be negotiated-we ouly claim the faculty of creating them, if there b? ee#s ity by royal ordinance without waiting lo submit them for legislative sanction at theopsningafthe chase-hors. A to tha cuoice of rentes to bo created, with regard to the price or the periods at which the payments of the loan are to hs mad?, whether we divide the adjudication, or have it done by one affair, it is necessary, gentlemen, that yoa yield to our ministerial responsibility. The conditions which you might impose, would only create difficulties-your confidence in this respect is au absolute condition of success. aUe demand from you a credit of 250,000,0005 in Treasury Bonds. If th# peace b? cou-firmed, as it promises to be, this resenree will permit us to wait to realise or complete the lean wkei our public fundi vulgar saying, cut off their nose in despite of their face, their conduct iu fetching engines, which appear o crazy, all the way from Philadelphia, instead of employing our own skilful workmen in their construction, need excite but little surprise. Fortune docs not seem to hine on this company, but their shabby conduct towards this city will prevent anybody's feeling sorry for disappointed spe culators, whose avarice has o'erleaped itself, and fallen on the other side. -Worcester Chronicle. Fatal Accident at the Vulcan Foun ey. -On Tuesday week, an inquest was held at the Horse and Jockey Inn, Newton, on view of the body of Thomns Harrison, a fireman at the Vulcan Foundry. It was the duty of the deceased to attend to the steam engine at Messrs. Tayleur and Co.'s extensive works, and to get up the steam a little before six o'clock every morning. On Saturday he had done so, and went among the ma chinery for the purpose of nutting the strap on the fan used for blowing the blMt for the furnaces and black smith's fires, when his clothes got entangled, and ho was dragged into the fan. He was driven round with an amazing impetus for some time, and on each revolution of the wheel, his legs, which protruded over the edge, came iu contact with the door, and were literally smashed to atoms. Mr. Dowling, ono of the managers of the works, was the first to render assistance. He was much injured about the body, and the fractures about his legs were almost innumerable. The poor fellow was carried home, and promptly at tended by Mr. Barrow, surgeon, and Dr. Green, of New ton, Mr. Gorton, surgeon, of St. Helen's, and Mr. Pen nington, of Ashton. On Sunday morning he became sensible, and for a time appeared to rally. In the course of that day mortification took place, and at his request both legs were amputated by Mr. Gorton, at lour o'clock in the afternoon. The deceased bore the operation with great fortitude, and survivod until eleven o'clock in the evening, when death ensued. The jury returned a ver dict of Accidental Death. -Blachburne Gazette. A correspondent has furnished us with the sequel to the history of the uxoriously-disposed Baron von Hall-•erg, whose advertisement for a helpmate we inserted seme days back. The bold Baron's word as to his har ness of constitution seems to have been taken so literally, that the number of fair applicants who replied occasioned some press of business at tbe Munich post-office. It is stated that he received upwards of a thousand proposal within u short period. Some waggish editor of a news paper, we suppose for wags will lurk even in the most steady paced circles , alluding to the above-mentioned facts, announced the Baron's intention to give a grand dinner on New Year's Day, to which the fair suitors were one and all to be invited. After grace it was stated that the band would be instructed to strike up the new pa triotic song on the Rhine, Sie sollen ihn nicht haben, Ac. They shall not-shall not have him, Ac. , as the German version goes. Rannoch-Melancholy Occurrence.-A person of the name ot Campbell, who was for some time shepherd on the farm of Liaran. and lived with his wife and family in a very remote place ia the hill called Cor-ribbachaidh nam Fiadh, being an expert angler, and close to Leclterrochd-side, very frequently, when his pastoral avocations permitted him, employed his time in fishing on this lake and having one day caught a large trout, he received no unusual thing a slight scratch from its teeth, when he was in the act of extricating the hook from its mouth. Of this he took little notice at first but as it bled very profusely, and his hand began rapidly to swell, he hastened home to his wife, and they both tried every means in their power to stop the blood, but to no avail. Baffled and alarmed, the poor wife proposed, as a forlorn hopo, that she would go to the Strath for tho assistance of ethers, and having received his concurrence, she started in the middle of the night, and travelled ten miles through a dark and dreary hill, ere she arrived at any human habitation. Greatly fatigued, she came to Liaran about daylight, and, having communicated her alarm, and implored immediate aid, she, in returning, outran the individuals who set out for her assistance, and, with the spend of lightning, flew back to her beloved hus band. But, alas ! what must have been her feelings when she cast her eyes upon th# sad spectacle, which, on her arrival, presented itself-the object dearest to her on earth lying pale in the arms of death, and her young fatherless children crying around him? Few, we believe, were placed in more trying circumstances than this un-fortunate female, and her melancholy and early bereave ment has called forth the sympathy of ail who knew her or heard of her sad story.-Perth Courier. The river Tyne, for ft considerable distance above Sjotswood bridge, westward, was frozen over on Wednes day last. The frost has since given way, so that the navi gation has happily not yat been stopped by the ice.-Tyne Mercury. Lord Crewe is on a visit to Lord and Lady Hathebton, at Teddesley Park, Stafford, where a dis tinguished party is assembled.- Wolverhampton Chronicle. sanction so wicked an extortion ? The eighth and last article is a specimen of the document. Also, the party proponent doth say and allege that the said Joseph Hill, in the years libelled, was a pa rishioner and inhabitant within the parish of K-libelled, and did there hear divine service, and receive the sacrament, together with his wife, yearly, or at least ought so to have done, for which there is due and payable to the vicar libelled at Easter, yearly, or near there abouts, four pence a piece for every communicant, for and in lieu of their general oblations. The vicar, flushed with the euccess of his first suit, in the January following issued the citation in question for the quarter's tithe then due but the demand being under 10 ., the suit was dismissed, as I have before mentioned. The following is Dr. Addants's opinion -I think that the defendant must appear absolutely. If the libel does not set forth that the yearly value of tithe subtracted exceeds 10 ., the defendant must, object to its admission, and then the court unless, indeed, it directs the libel to be reformed in that respect should dismiss the defendant with costs and so, if when the plaintiff having leave to reform the libel, he can't or does not plead the annual value of the tithe subtracted to be above 101. If it pleaded that the annual value of the tithe sub tracted is above 10 ., but that fact is not proved in or disproved by the evidence at the hearing of tha cause, the result, I apprehend, should at all events be, that the defendant is entitled to his costs, though the plaintiff may prove some tithe subtracted and recover accordingly. Signed J. Addams. Doctor's Commons, Feb. 4, 1840. However the result was, that Mr. Hill could not get costs and the idea o ' the defendant submitting to a suit, until the evidence is taken and the cause heard, is so monstrous, that it is better to yield to au illegal de mand, than run the risk of incurring 40 . eosts. 1 am, sir, your obedient servant, Exeter, Dec. 30. II. C. MILLET. MEETING ON BEHALF OF WIDOW YOUNG. At a meeting held at Monmouth on the 28th of De cember, for taking into consideration the best means to be adopted for the liberation of the widow, Sarah Young, now a prisoner in the county gaol of Monmouth, where she has been detained seven months for alleged contempt of the Ecclesiastical Court of I.landaff, whither she was illegally cited at the suit of the Rev. Dr. Lyle, of that place, for 35 10s. said to be due for tithe, the following resolutions wore adopted -That the citation of a poor widow for a small amount of tithe to an ecclesiastical court, contrary to the act made to prevent such proceedings, is both unchristian and unconstitutional. That the Ecclesiastical Court of Llandaff, which has been in the habit of issuing citations for small amounts of tithe, has displayed a want of respect for tbe laws of our candidate a few months ago, by a vastly larger majority than the Liberal party had previously mustered. As for the Jedburgh aud Elgin burghs, we have heard nothing to shake our belief that the Reform party is secure in both. Apropos of the blunders of the Times .-It states in its number of the '24th November, that in the Scotch burghs Toryism had recently made the most splendid progress. As evidence of this it referred to the municipal elections in Musselburgh, Stirling, Dumbarton, Dunbar, Edinburgh and Glasgow. To persons acquainted with Scot land, the selection of examples is very significant. Musselburgh has had a majority of Tory council lors for five or six years through the influence of a single proprietor it is not worse than it was, for the last elec tions gave three Whigs to four Tories and the weight of the burgh may be judged of from the fact, that it contains less than one seventh of the electors, in a district where the Liberals have a majority of nearly two to one ! Stirling lias been most unluckily appealed to. Of twenty-one members of council in that burgh, the Tories have not been able to return more, we believe, than one, or at moat two! This, mind you, is what the Times celebrates as a triumph I Of Dumbarton and Dunbar we have no local knowledge, but we may safely concede that the success of the Tories there ia of tiie same description as at Stirling. In fact, Conservatism has been losing ground in most of our small burghs. In Linlithgow, for instance, there were just three Tory councillors out of twenty-seven, and these were expelled at tha last election. At Glasgow we are told the victory in favour of the church and constitution has been so complete that a Conservative Lord Provost has been unanimously elected, a circumstance which wilt secure the ascendancy of sound principles in that quarter for many years to come. In point of fact, the two parties stand ia Glasgow precisely as they did before the last eieation, without cither gain or loss. They are exactly balanced, or within one vote of being so. In Edinburgh we are told that, at the last elections the Conservatives returned an equal number of coun cillors with the Liberals. After this the force of menda city can no farther go! Even those who are familiar with the bold lies of tiie Times will scarcely believe, what is literally true, that of the twelve members returned at the elections last month, three were Conservatives and nine Liberals! Parties remain just as they were, but the Liberals would have gained at least ona vote at the last election, if the unhappy schism between tiie churchmen and the dissenters had not occarrcd. According to the Times, the d ssenters began fo advo cate tbe voluntary principle about fifteen years ago, be cause they were losing ground, their wealthier members Doing attracted to the more genteel places of worship belonging to the church. Now, dissenters have multi plied as fast within the last fifteen yeats as at any former period, and if they acted from the motive assigned, will the Times be so kind as fo tell us why the voluntary re medy was not resorted to fifty years earlier ? The recent history of the controversy is no secret. The diaseoters, seeing establishments everywhere around them in tho Christian world, only opened their eye. to the full strength and efficacy of their own principles by slow de grees. It was about the period mentioned by the Times, or a little later, that the minds of many of their leading clergymen were sufficiently ripened to adopt voluntaryism openly and perhaps we may take somo credit to ourselves for this result, the Scotsman having advocated the doc trine when fit occasions occurrod, from the first day of country, and exerted a power dangerous to the liberty I ■ existence. By and by, meetings were held and dis-.fiL. l .-a __l 1 La ..4 4. .... ! !. POUrRPB dffllVl of the subject, which ought not to pass with impunity, That this meeting pledges itself, by bringing this par ticular case before Parliament, by petitioning the Legis lature, and by using every lawful means, to endeavour to abolish the power usurped by the ecclesiastical courts. That a committee be now appointed, with power to add to their number.with a view to effect the liberation of the widow Sarah Young, who has already suffered seven months' imprisonment for alleged contempt of the Eccle siastical Court of Llandaff, whither she was illegally cited for 31. 10s., said to be due to the Rev. Dr. Lyle for tithe. That a subscription for currying out the above re solutions be immediately opened. That James Bromage, Esq., banker, Monmouth, be appointed treasurer and Mr. E. Richards, secretary, who is requested to forward the reselutions to the public papers.'' WHO IS THE REV. DR. LYLE l To THE EDITOR OK THE MORNING CHRONICLE. Sir-I shall be obliged by your informing me if the Rev. Dr. Lyle, at present before the public respecting the case of the Widow Young, is the same person as the Rev. William Birkin Meakham Lisle, LL.D., of Tally, garn, in the county of Glamorgan, and rector of St. Fagans, near Llandaff, a gentleman of a very large pro perty. I am, sir, yours, c. Dec. 30, 1840. VERAX. Fire.-Yesterday morning, about half-past two o'clock, an extensive fire breke out In the bed-rooms of the house of a gentleman, named Seely, near Padding ton Church. On the alarm having been given the parish engine was taken to the spot by n party of me tropolitan police this was quickly followed by'engines from King-street and Baker-street, but although a ready supply of water was obtained, and the greatest exertions made to arrest the progress of the fire, a considerable portion of valuable property was destroyed. • The fire originated, it is believed, through a lighted candle having been placed too near the bed furniture. The property destroyed is insured. courses delivered on the subject, and converts were gained the more rapidly in consequence of tiie wide spread disgust excited by the universal hostility of the established clergy to ihe Reform Bill. It was now evident that a change bad commenced, which promised in course of time to sap all establishments. The church men took the alarm, and, to counteract the move ment, started the Non-Intrusion doctrine, which they pretended would cure the admitted vices of the establishment, and give its congregations all the advan tages enjoyed by the distenters, with the further benefit of free seats. The Veto law was carried after a struggle, aad being now awakeaed to the formidable attitude which dissent was assuming, they deemed it necessary to resort to offensive measures, and introduced the church extension scheme, th avowed object of which was to crush d ssent, by planting a placa of wor ship with free sittings at tbe side of each dis senting meeting-house. While this state of things lasted the controversy was hot, and there was a perpetual shower of pamphlets and polemical ser mons, bnt Parliament at length knocked the plan on the head by refusing funds. About the same time the cases of Auchterarder and Marnoch brought the church into collision with the courts of law and the wild men, having their thoughts engrossed by another object, and feeling the necessity of enlisting tb# multitude in support of their schemes, silently dropped their dispute# with tj-, e dissenters, and even began to ply them with blarney. The latter were now relieved from the necessity of defending themselves, and the con troversy of course slackened, but they held, and still hold, meetings from lime to time for the dissemina tion of the voluntary principle, which most certainly never advanced more rapidly thao it is doing at tiie pre sent time. Indeed, the common feeling of the dissenters is, that direct attacks upon the establishment are now little necessary, for the obvious reason that the church, by its rebellious attitude and the arrogance of its preten sions, is hastening its own destruction. The dissenters, however, could not see the franchise perk erted into a means of advancing sectarian domination, qt their ex-to be hoped that some bold Reformer will yet come for ward and, if so, nothing but the ill-timed attempt at dis play by the Auti-Corn-law League can prevent the electors from retaining their independence. It is really pitiable to see men calling themselves Reformers adopting the only course which can defeat their own object. Only think of these man communicating with Mr. Gladstone, in order to ascertain his views upon the corn-laws. Such con duct indicates either sheer knavery or consummate ig norance. They must well know that Mr. Gladstone will not vote for a repeal of the corn-laws, and yet they ask him the question, thereby intimating their intention of supporting him, if they can havo the slightest pretext for 'doing so. Under all these circumstances, there is but one hope left, and that is, that some stern Liberal will vet step forward. I know many of Mr. Lyttelton's friend., feel deeply mortified that he should be compelled tr, resign, well knowing as they da that the Liberal int? rest cannot afford a division amongst them. Completion of the Bible for the Blind.-Tuesday last, the 22d current, will form an important era in the annals of the Glasgow Asylum for tha Blind. On that day Mr. John Alston, primum mobile of this excellent institution, had the satisfaction of exhibiting to a party of 150 an examination of the pupils in the Bible for the Blind, which is for the firit time completed in 15quarto volumes. Amidst the many benevolent persons who have exerted themselves to ameliorate the condition and cultivate the minds of the bliod, Mr. Alston is the first gentleman who has succeeded in printing in relief, from the ordinary Roman capital, the characters formerly in use being either arbi trary, or modifications of the Illyrian or Sclavonic alphabet. At the annual examination of the inmates of the asylum, on 25th October, 1836, Mr. Alston brought out his first specimen of printing from the Roman type and he forth with resolved to raise a fund distinct from that of the institution, to b devoted exclusively ta the printing of hooks, and to their diffusion at a cheap rate throughout the country. In this appeal to private benevolence and public aid, Mr. Alston was not disappointed, and was enabled successively to brin out a number of elementary works, and finally the fs - cw Testament in super-royal quarto size. Tb , encouraged him to still further ex ertion # ,d lie resolved to undertake the laborious work printing the whole Bible, in March, 1839, he had completed the Book of Genesis, in a new type cut for the purpose, the punch# being struck and the types cast I in Glasgow under his own inspection. Before proceed ing further, he visited in April of that year all the insti-! tutions for the blind, and be found in them the utmost will ingness to aid by purchasing such of the different volumes as had been already printed, and were required by them. As the work was one of vast expense, assistance was given by various benevolent societies, but the great lift was afforded by her Majesty, who, in September, 1839, granted the sum of 4005 from the royal bounty for the purpose of assisting in such a meritorious work. Thus aided, the work, as we hive stated, has besn happily brought to a conclusion. The printing is effecled by a copperplate printing press. Th types being strongly relieved, amt liable frequently to give way under tb# heavy pressure required, it has been necessary to have them no less than four times recast during the progress of the work. Thero is in the operative department one man and a boy as positors.who were taught in the institution, and one nress-man, the ordinary teacher acting as corrector of th 1 # press. -Glasgow Herald. Agricultural Labour.-On Saturday an in quisition was taken at the George the Fourth, East-road, before Mr. Cooper, coroner of this borough, on view of the body of William Jolly, aged two years The deceased child was the son of an agricultural labourer, aged twenty-six years, residing in Popjoy's-rents, Gas-lane. H# works at Chestertoo, and his wages amount to only 9s. a week, out of which he has to pay is. 6A a week for rent. He had been out of work lately, and his wife and child were a few weeks since for several days, literally in want of bread. They have but two blankets, one was pawned in the summer, and the other the poor woman was obliged to pawn on Tuesday, the 22d in stant, at a time when the deceased child was suffering from illness. That night it became worse, and died in 'he course of a few hours no medical man was called in, the poor woman being unable to pay for any Assistance of that kind. Tho family, it appears, sleep re , a mattress placed on a brick floor, without sheets or blankets, and with no other covering than an old sack, the man's great coat, and the woman's cloak. I.post mortem examination was made by Mr. Lestourge,,n, jun., from which, and from the other evidence. ',ne jury came to the conclusion that disease, which 'nail terminated fatally, had been brought on by ' l lte inclemency of the weather and the want of sufffo' ien t bed clothing, and returned a verdict ac-cortiimr'y,,-Cambridge Advertiser. Serious Affair.-On Wednesday morning the policeman at Fountainbridgc. in consequence of informa tion he had received, entered a house i Inglis' Entry. I 'ouotainbridgo, the residence of two females, mother and daughter, named Fife. The two females had absconded, but he found on the floor, stark naked, and quite dead, a little girl about eleven veers of age, a natural daugh er o the younger female. None of her clothes werc about the apartment and several mark . app re violence, were observedon her person. The two wcr.? afterwards apprehended and are still 10 ca , ' ■ and the aflair is under Investigation, e unders a the neighbours allege both prisoners were in e a t especially when intoxicated, ot using threatening aa 8 towards the child, and of treating her with grea a -Scotsman. n m J' 'fi, Il I I 
Sept. 13. REVIEW, KDY. Jomeo and Juliet. fcntury. v, No. CLH, lember L'Jth. py Hester Stanlnpe. iCA. Seventh JTwenty-one Volumes, Id many thousands on rehouse of knowledge Itave produced it. We It in fulness and accu-TStandard. lent industry and jndg-pey to its multifarious f by all Booksele-er 5 Wellington M iddleaex, at krieter, ALBANY 1,1816. THE POLITICAL EXAMINER. If I might give a short hint to an impartial writer, it wauld be to tell him his fate, if he resolves to venture upon the dangerous precipice of tell ing unbiassed truth, let him proclaim war with mankind-neither to give nor to take quarter. If he tells the crimes of great men, they fall upon him with the iron hands of the law if he tells them of their virtues, when they have any, then the mob attacks him with slander. But if he regards truth, let him expect martyrdom on both sides, and then he may go on fearless and this is the course I take my self.-De Foe. THE ANDOVER UNION INQUIRY. In pity to the Assistant Commissioner it was high time to stop the inquiry into the conduct of worthy Mr M'Dougal, of the Andover Union Work-house. Thirteen days of self-exposure was quite as much as Mr Parker could bear. His zeal was vast, but his dexterity mean, and wretchedly clumsy were his attempts to screen the accused, to abash the witnesses, and obstruct the discovery of the truth. Under M3 countenance and encourage ment, however, the professional licence had full indulgence, and the Counsel for M'Dougal gave a turn of ribaldry and indecency to the examination to the last degree disgusting. Iudeed, gross as are the offences charged, they are less scandalous, less pernicious, less mischievous in example than the attempts to screen them from detection and punishment, which hold out the promise of impu nity to every licentious brute who happens to be placed at the head of a workhouse. The principle that has governed the inquiry seems to have been, that paupers were to be supposed incapable of speaking the truth and that if any immorality could be charged against their previous lives, any immorality could be practised towards them with impunity. One woman replied, with point and spirit, upon the attempt to invalidate her evidence on the score of character, that it did not follow that because she had been bad before, the master was to make her sin again against her will. M'Dougal has not had the opportunity of making his defence, and therefore we shall not give any opinion on the host of evidence against him but whatever may be the merits of the case, the par tiality of the Assistant Commissioner in the inves tigation of it allows of no dispute, it is as flagrant as folly and injustice combined could make it. We could quote a score of gross instances, but the ex ample we give will serve as well as a hundred. A witness was giving evidence of M'Dougal's habits of drunkenness-By Mr Curtis.-He once read the Lord's prayer twice, and the prayer before ' the Grace of our Lord.' It was in tlie evening. He read the prayer, ' Dearly beloved breth ren,' c. Don't you know that there is no prayer, but sentences of Scripture, before that?-That is of no consequence. Mr Parker.-What do you mean by that? Do you say they are of no consequence ? Witness.-No not the prayers. Oh, no. What I said was of no consequence. The prayers are very good. Mr Curtis.-Hoiv dare you say that what you state upon oath is of no consequence?-I mean that what I said was of no consequence to what you said. Do you know the ninth commandment 1-I used to know them all once. Have you never heard the commandment, ' Thoushalt not hear false witness against thy neighbour ?'-Yes. But I made a mistake. I called ' Dearly beloved brethren' a 'rayer, but it bean't a prayer. Tile adults were present, saac Cobb and others were there. The boys and girls laughed when master could not get on better with the prayers. I did not laugh. It was not a subject to laugh at. My daughter did not attend prayers. I attended the boys in to prayers. They are generally read about half-past six, after supper. I can't tell the date or day of the week when tile double readings took place. On reading over the evidence it appeared that the assist ant-commissioner had recorded that the witness had said the sentences before ' Dearly beloved brethren' were of no conse quence. Mr Prendergast denied that the witness had said so. W hat he said was, that having called the address beginning Dearly beloved brethren' a prayer was of no consequence. It was not a prayer for his calling it so. Mr Parker.-No j but he spoke of the sentences before that. Mr Prendergast.-Which was put upon him by Mr iIm' 'l' 0 asked him if he was not a Primitive Methodist. Mr Curtis.-The words 1 of no consequence' came from you. Mr Prendergast.-I beg your pardon. But, if that were M y put them on the witness? I he witness explained that the observation ' That's of no consequence' was meant by him to apply to his having called the address a prayer. i he explanation was not required the man's meaning was clearly enough that bis mistake was 0 consequence, and it was a vile trick, worthy 01 a Mawworm, to pretend that the remark applied to the Scriptural sentences. M' D T al S ay ? r ma y of be fit to be conti-, e , 1I V u 1,°® oe but there cannot be a doubt of yvhat should be done with Mr Parker. For As-Latesi Editios, l sistant Commissioner he has shown himself utterly unlit, but be appears qualified to make a very suit able assistant to Mr M'Dougal. The Poor Law Commissioners have abruptly stopped the inquiry, and made the following mo dest proposals -Poor-Law Commission office, Somerset house, 9th September, ISIS. Sir,-The Poor-law Commissioners have had under consideration the length to which the inquiry at Andover has already extended, and the suspense as well as the outlay to which both parties interested in this inquiry have neces sarily already been exposed. All this must be still further increased if the inquiry is continued in the same form. On these grounds, and because the commissioners wish that some, at least, of the questions now raisedshouid be brought before a jury, they have determined to take the following course -1. The commissioners will cause ati indictment to be preferred against the master in respect of any one case of assault, with an improper intention, alleged to have been committed on a pauper whilst an inmate of the work-house. The commissioners will take any case which you, as the accuser of the master, may suggest, and will cause the bill to he preferred at the next quarter sessions, which take place in the month of October. 2. The commissioners will, in like manner, cause an information before justices to be laid against the master or matron, under section 97 of the Poor-law Amendment Act, for any one act of embezzlement or misapplication of food, clothing, or goods belonging to the union which you may select. It will on this charge be open to any one to show that the inmates have not received their full and proper allow ance of food. It is needless to say that if the master is convicted by a jury on the first of these charges the com missioners would at once dismiss him from office. If he is convicted on the second charge he becomes dis qualified, by the operation of the act, from holding office hereafter. If an indictment for embezzlement or theft he thought more effective, the commissioners have no objection to that form of proceeding, instead of the information under the 97th section above referred to. The commissioners are convinced that this course will at once be the most satisfactory and the most expeditious in bringing the matter to an issue. In order to remove misapprehension the commissioners wish it to be understood that they will cause the indictment to be prepared, and the bill to be preferred, and the infor mation to be laid at the cost of the commission. But they will not undertake to defray out of the funds at their dis posal any subsequent expenses, either for the prosecution or the defence. The parties making the charge can in this, as in every other case, take their own measures to obtain conviction and the master must of course provide for his own defence. The commissioners will also recommend the board of guardians that they suspend the master and matron until the result of the indictment and information are known, and place some other persons in charge of the workhouse. The discretion of doing this is by the regulations of the commissioners vested in the board of guardians. The commissioners can dismiss, but this of course is a step im plying a final decision on the merits of the case, on which no evidence as regards the master is yet before the com missioners, and on which they must be understood as expressing no opinion whatever. Mr Parker, assistant-commissioner, will be directed, on the receipt of a copy of this letter, to suspend all further inquiry until the result of the indictment and information shall be known, since the continuance of such proceedings in the interval might he held to prejudice the case one way or the other. The commissioners request that you will notify to them, as soon as possible, the exact cases which you desire to select, in such a form as to enable the indict ment and the information to be properly prepared forth with. The commissioners have no objection to botli of them being seen by your solicitor before they are finally settled. They also request, with reference to the former, that you will supply them with a list of witnesses necessary in your opinion to support the hill before lie grand jury. 1 am, sir, your most obedient servant, George Coode, Assistant-Secretary. T. C. Westlake, Esq., Andover. And what is to be done with the charges of drun kenness? Nothing. There is not even the decency of a pretence of dealing with them. The alleged immoralities, too, were not confined to assaults with improper intent there were several cases of consent, one confessed and do the Com missioners mean it to be understood that the mas ters of unions are at liberty to make brothels of them, provided they do not use violence ? As the law is notoriously a lottery with many blanks, the proposal to put M'Dougal's guilt or innocence of the many charges against him to the issue of the trial of one case of assault and one ol embezzlement, is the next thing to offering to settle the question by the cast of the dice and the cost of the prosecution, excepting only the expenses of the indictment and information, is to fall on the persons who have endeavoured to apprise the Commissioners of the misconduct of their servant 1 We hope the proposal will be spurned. It is for the Commissioners to investigate the charges against the Master of the Andover Union, and to satisfy themselves whether he is or is not a trust worthy servant. They are not to shuffle off their responsibilities and to transfer them to a jury, and that in the investigation only of one charge while there are more than a score more of the same nature. And suppose the person who has been M'Dougal's accuser should make an inju dicious choice in the selection of a case, and pitch upon one the substantiation of which may be difficult. Have the Commissioners any right to run the hazard, and with it to take the chance of continuing in his place of trust a man who may be guilty of all the rest of the shameful chanjes, or of any of them ? For what are these Commissioners pi id by the public if they are to thrust off their duties upon Mr Westlake and a jury Mr West-lake having to select a solitary case, and a jury to investigate and decide on it? Why is Mr West-lake to perform imperfectly the office of the Com missioners ? If the Board at Somerset house be not compe tent to judge of these charges, or to make its own selection of such as should be submitted to a jury, the sooner it is swept away as useless, or, worse, as the screen to the most shameful abuses, the better. Its whole anxiety seems to be to diminish the chances of discovering the master's guilt, if guilty he be. If it be thought permissible at Somerset house that peculations for amiable domestic purposes should occur in workhouses, that weekly drunken ness should have indulgence, and that unions should be converted into seraglios, let it all be openly avowed and the public assessed to the poor will know how to take their measures to abate the nuisance and imposition for its support. Let us have no false pretences, no mockery of jus tice. Let it be made known whether or not the place of master of a union be peculiarly desirable for debauchees, who may perhaps, with this exam ple, be tempted tp bid for the appointment. The Matron is to be suspended we see, as if there could he any shadow of question as to the impropriety of continuing her in her place, her acts of violence to the witnesses who had given evidence against her husband, having been confessed by her husband's not very scrupulous counsel. THE LAST REPEAL CROl'CHET. Exhorting the Repeal Association to exert them selves strenuously to return seventy Repealers not to sit in Parliament, and who are to be non-repre sentatives, Mr O'Connell remarks-You should in all your official correspondence with the country imitate the Dclenda est Carthago of the Roman statesman-When we had read so far we thought the motto clelenda Carthago not inaptly chosen for the ob ject, the Carthago being the Irish representation, which is to be made a nullity, blotted out of exist ence hut the Irish reading of delenda Carthago is, we find, the very contrary to destructive, it sig nifying Hibernici vitality and regeneration. Mr O'Connell continues the sentence from the place of our interruption of it. with this difference-that instead of suggesting anything destructive, your suggestions will tend to renewed vitality and national regeneration. Politics and singing have of late years become closely connected. France, enraged by the Treaty of July, took her revenge by singing the Marseil laise morning, noon, and night. Europe bore it, and, thank heaven, we have passed through that tuneful crisis. Mr O'Connell having seen what great things can be done by vocal concert, proposes a duet of the orange and green. His plan for the reconciliation of tunes, hitherto at deadly discord, is thus rea soned-Mr O'Ferrall, of Dungannon, is made to call the tunes played by the Orange band ' party tunes.' Now, there are no such things as ' parly tunes' in the repeal agitation-there is a marked distinction between 'national airs' and party tunes.' Whilst we were struggling for emancipation there were party tunes-tunes intended to convey insult and resistance to the Catholics and their claims. But the Catholics as such have no longer any claims to make the date of party tunes is therefore over. As to the Repealers, no Irish tune can possibly be disagreeable t0 even if it were disagreeable, the Repealers ought cheerfully to concede to brother Irishmen the selection of any airs that pleased themselves. Besides, the ' Boyne Water, for ex ample, is a beautiful air. The southern Repealers have in many places taken it up as a national air, and I hope it wilt soon become general with the Repealers of the not , well as those of the south. Let the Repeal wardens com municate to such Catholics as are not Repealers our earnest advice to listen cheerfully and merrily to y what t Orangemen may play, anti thus to ma discord, Ughfto source o armony, can consider th
jover Dor •ays, tlii ■ family natural. for the DruMi -Id th Th, .1 is temporary, aud k r that cf the old Entir hi At he ruled o nr both orer that tribe not aubl beeddfaturttmea. • Both '•nir a k n of the I'aohe of • 1'oktr y ields tine at th s about Set-via an e. Th the French A mb ueiador • declared ilia ■- ■ e protector# id, cons , and hare experienced a further ri e of l per cent., Console beimj now quoted 94 to J e div., for the opening Bank Stock, 172 Three per Cents. Reduced, 94 to 5 the Threc-and-a-Half per Cents. Reduced, 101 to India Bonds, 52. to 4. prem. Exche quer Bills, under the influence of the purchases made by the Government broker, are now quoted at Aho high price of 01s. to 63a prem. In the Foreign Securities there has been a dispo sition shown to speculate in some of the low-priced South American Stocks. The only description of Portuguese Securities now quoted in the official list os the New Portuguese Converted, it being supposed that all parties interested in these securities will ultimately convert their bonds. Spanish Secu rities are a shade lower than yesterday. The following are the closing quotations iu the Foreign House -Spanish Active Bonds, 18 to De ferred, 10 to Passive, 4 to New Threes, 23 to Mexican Bonds, 31J to 2 Deferred, 9 to Portuguese Converted, 33 Belgian, 101 to 2 Braid lias, 71 to 72 Buenos Ayres, 25 to 27 Chi lian, 74 to0 Colombian, 23 Danish, 84 to 85 Dutch Five per Cents., 101 to ditto Two-and-a-Halfper Cents., 53 to . This day week we alluded to the suspension of payments of the Yorkshire Agricultural Bank, and to the attempts made by a deputation of the direc tor who had come to town to form new arrange ments to enable the company to resume business, whicbi, however, bad up to that time been unsuc cessful. The news from the country to-day brings inte-lt igence of the final winding-up this concern, after having lost all the paid up capital of £211,000, and £100,000 besides. The greatest distress prevails in 'lie district where the bank was situated, and a call of £3 per share on 615 partners will still be tu-ceseary to make good the outstanding deficiency. Tftq grossest blunders are said to have been com mitted by the board of management, and all the 'ivi lends were paid out of the capital. In this •ase . as in many otheis, the shareholders appear to t'lairt been ruined by misplaced confidence, and want of due control. The Share Market continues at yesterday's quota tions, viz.London and Birmingham, 98 to 100 pvem. Great Westerns, 24 to 5 prem. South Vestems, 02 per share Brightens, 36 to per .share Black walls, 5 to J per share North Mid land, 62 to 3 per share Paris and Rouen, 5 to 6 prem. in Joint stock Bauks, London and Westminster Bank shares were done at 21 per share and the new shares of the Provincial of Ireland at31 . The following are the returns of the receipts of the undermentioned railways, for the weeks ending the dates specified -Loudon and Birmingham, Dec. 24 £16,886 8 10 Great Westerns, Dec. 25 13,061 0 5 London and South Westerns, Dec. 26 5, 516 14 6 South Easterns, Dec. 29 1,712 18 10 Eastern Counties, Dec. 25 047 7 11 Loudon and Brighton, Dec. 24 3,370 0 5 Loudon and Blackball, Dec. 20 569 11 0 London and Greenwich, Dec. 20 825 0 7 Croydon, Dec.27 222 6 7 North Midland, Dec. 24 4,330 12 8 York and ditto, Dec. 24 1,706 11 5 Midland Comities, Dec. 24 2,718 2 0 Edinburgh and Glasgow, Dec. 24 1,603 18 4 Grand Junction, Dec. 24 7,741 18 6 At a special general meeting of the proprietors of the Croydon Railway Company, held on Tuesday last, tlie report from the directors recommended the proprietors to discontinue the carrying trade, owing to the refusal of the Greenwich board to treat with them for a settlement of the toll question. The chairman stated that the arrangements made with the South Eastern Company would enable the Croy don hoard to resume the traffic whenever a fitting opportunity presented itself. It appeared that the fipunscs were about £200 a week, while tbe receipts bud fallen short of that amount by £10 or £12. The passengers carried between London and Croydon wire about 700 per we k. A return of the receipts from the 1st of August to tbe 13th of December showed Bett receipts of £5,299 not much above £300 a week, although during a portion of that time the 3d. toll only had been in operation. After a lengthened discussion, the period lor aban doning the carrying irade seems to have betn post poned until the 25th of March and a committee w s appointed to negotiate with the Greenwich Company, with a view of endeavouring to effict some arrangement to enable the Company to go on. A pamphlet on the Tea Trade, just published by the editor of the Public Ledger, states that in tbe year 1839 the highest price of the year paid for Company's Congou at the tale price was2 . 7d. per lb. the lowest, Is. 5d. per lb. stock on tbe 31.t of December, 52,500,000ibs. stock of Company's Congou, 33.000chests delivered for home cot,sump tion, 32.366,4121bs. gross duty paid, £3,363,963. in 1840 tbe highest price was 3s. 31. per lb. lowest, Is. lid. stock 31st of Dec., 46,500,0001b?. stuck of Company's Congou, 28,700 chests quan tity deliver, d for home consumption, 35,136,2321bs. gross amount of duty paid, £3,600,008. In 1841 the highest price was 2o 91. per lb. lowest, is. 4Jd. stock 31st of Dee.,36,000,0001bs THB MORMNG CHRONICLE, MONDAY, at a yearly cost of about £9,000,000 to the consumers, whereot £3,500,000 is paid for duty to the Crown, and the remainder, being £6,500,000, be says, is appro priated by the importers, and in profit divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. ThU esti mate seems to be founded on the basis that there are 30,000,000 of pounds of tea consumed annually, at 6 . per lb. Taking, then, the highest sale prices for the years 1839, 1840,1841, and 1842, the average is 2b. lid. per lb., leaving 2s. Id. of profit for every pound of tea, to be divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. We should like much to see an analysis of the component parts of this propor tion of profit paid by the consumers to the two branches of the tea trade. How much goes to the wholesale dealers, and how much of it to the re tailers? It is to be regretted that the writer ol the pamphlet did not enter into these points, and at the same time into a discussion of the expediency of maintaining a uniform duty of 2i. Id. per lb. on all qualities of teas and whether or not it would not now lie proper to return to the old ad valorem prac tice, which is acknowledged to have been an excel lent system, and seems to have been given up in 1834, without sufficient inquiry regarding its practi cability, when the monopoly of the East India Com pany was dissolved. We have received a communication this day only from Mr. Taskvr, the chairman of the com mittee of Spanish bondholders,, and several letters also from other parties interested in Spanish finance. We shall hereafter advert to these communications, and insert such of them as may appear to possets sufficient public interest. The following were the official quotations at the different markets during the day -BKULISn SURDS. Bulk Stock, 172VR S per Cl. Red,. s 4 India Ronds, 52 4 pm. Rank Stock for ACC.. 173 Conaolsforoptnlng, 94 4 Fxcheq. Bills, fil.OOO.sd.o 01 8 pm. Exchequer RiNst MM , 2d., 018 pra. Ditto Small. 24.. 01 3 00 pm. 8 perCt. Red., ioi HKH Lon Anns., 'xp. Juh. 5, 11 16 I onjc Anns. 30 Years, exp. Oct. 10. ' • M # ' 16 FOB Bid N FUNDS. Buenos Ayr.s, 20 Ditto Aoc., ?s Colombian per CL 1824,2296 H 3 Colon.b. 6 pr Ct. 1821 Acc 22 3 Color b. ex Venesuela, 11 Mt'iican 1837 ACC., 82 1 PortuKuoseSper CL New, 41H Portuguese Converted, 81 RAILWAYS Rrlttol and Exeter, 48 9 Cheltenham and Great Western, 20 1 Eastern Counties New, 1094 Great Western, 90 Ditto New, 01 4 Lon . A Brighton, 96 H Ditto Scrip, 17 M ISO KLLANKUU8. Heal del Monte Unref,, 3 J Pros. Bank of Ireland New, 8194 Lend. 6c Westmr. Bask. 21 1 PortugueseConvertedAcc.,31 8 Portuguese 8 per Cent., 26 Sp nisn 5 per Cent., 18 Ditto Acc 18 Spanish 3 per Cents., 24 Ditto Aco., 24 96 Dutch 5 per CL, 101 Lond. and Black wall, 5 Lon 4. at id Birmiaabam, 189 Lond. and Birin. New, 33 North Midland, 68 Rouen and Harre. 2 South Eastern and Dover, 22 MANCHESTER STOCK EXCHANGE. Dbc. 30.-We have nothing par the state of our markets to-day. quoted. There lias been nothing LONDON TRADE REPORT. Saturday Evenins.-We have not heard of any trans actions of consequence to-day in either Tea or Tallow. The Cotton market is still firm, and prices perhaps a shade higher. THE MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS. Bolton.-Counterpanes are in more animated request here, but still manufacturers complain of the low remune ration they receive for their goods. There is a steady sale for qailtlngs, fine muslins, and power-loom cloths, Bradford.-This being tbe last market in tbe year, was formerly not an acknowledged market for pieces, but that custom was abandoned a few years ago, and to-day folly hu uveroge business h s been done with former seasons, unci tbe manufacturers are not without considerable hope that at the commencement of the year an improved demand will take place. There is not any marked alteration for yarns, and the continued short time working keepe the stocks low, and prices very firm. During the last week but little busiuess bus been done in tbe wool market, and the dulness applies to all kinds of long wool. In broke and noils the uimind continues steady, and late prices are fully maintained. BABN8LBY.-Manufacturers continue to have a good bueiness doing. The linen trade is firm funcy drills are brisk and wtavershave moderate employ. Halifax.-Wo canuot report uny alteration in this market, either as to manufactured goods, or the raw ma • teriul. Sales of both proceed steadily, and prices are quite firm. Generally speaking, people are inclined to regard our prospects as, on tbe whole, favourable. Huddersfield.-Business is still most unpromising and uusatisfactory and no prospect of au amendment, un less there is a revival with the new yiar but at tbe close of the year business is always slack uud seemingly lingering again with re-i the case. on till the arrival of a fresh period, to 1 newed vigour, and we hope such now may Failsworth.-The silk trale ot Failsworth is yet very dull upwards of one-half of the operatives are without work, and the others only partially employed, at lower wages than last Christmas but many are of opinion that iu less than a month there will be a brisk trade. Leeds.-Trade has been very dull and gloomy this week sales have been very limited, aud prices ruinously low. There is a general expectation of an improvement with the new year, which we hope may be realised to its utmost ex tent. Wool and Indigo are rather looking up. In the warehouses busiuess continues slack. Manchester.-We have had anjoxtensivelinquiry for most kinds of cloth this week, at an advance on most de scriptions, and the market closed very buoyant. Should the commercial news trom China and India be favourable by the next mail, we may hope tor a still further improve ■ meat. Twist is unusually firm, though not generally higher, aud mauy spinners refuse to sell unless at an ad vance. On the whole, we are this week decidedly more healthy. • t' Rochdale.-Though there was but a thin attendance of ' j buyers in the market, there has been a very fair demand i for il inncla, considering the time of the year. For eome months back pitces have met with a ready sale, but the i manufacturers have not been able to obtain an advance in ditto Company's Congou, 11,500 cheats quan- orce. In general, even when trade is good, there is but lity delivered for home consumption, 32,262,005ihe.little business transacted between Christmas-day aud the gross amount oiduty paid, £3,473,9ol Iu 1842 the stock on hand of Company's Con gou, on the 30th of November, was 8,400 chests the highest price 2?. lowest, la. 51. stock at dose of the year, about34,000,000 lbs. quantity tukmfor home consumpti , 36,000,000 lbs. quantity de livered for exportation, stated at4,000,000 lbs. The sum paid annually by the consumers is stated at about £9,000,000 sterling, whereof £3,500,000 is paid to the Crown for duty, a large portion of the remainder to the importers, and the remainder is tbe profit divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. The extraordinary excitement and specu lative action in the tea market, during the years 1830,1840, 1841, and 1342, are well and graphically described in this pamphlet, a speculation that had its peculiar and distinctive features. Tbs quarrel, of a deep and angry nature, which took place be tween the English merchants and the authorities at Canton, led to an impression of war, and to an ex pectation of the continuous suspension of the trade. The dealers bought large surplus quantities, retired new market, which is always held the find Mouday after the 6tli of January. The wool market still remains heavy ths dealers expecting a rise from an increased demand for goods, and the manufacturers being unable to give an ad vance until thry are enabled to sell their pieces propor-tiouably higher. COURT CIRCULAR. WINDSOR-Sunday. Y esterday morning the Queen and Prince Albert walked lal, afterwards the T ' ting excursion, atti moude and Sir E. Bowater. out as usual, afterwards tbe Priocerode into the Great-on a shooting excursion, attended by the Marquess ol -park, ifOi-Her Royal Highneis the Duchess of Kent, Lady Fanny Howard, and the Earl and Countess of Haddington joined the royal dinner circle in the evening. This morning her Majesty and l'rinoe Albert, her Royal Highness the Ducheis of Kent, and the household attended divine service in the Private Chapel of the Castle. The Rev. John Vane officiated, and preached a sermon from the 11th verse of the 5th chap, of the 3d Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians. In the forenoon her Majesty aud Prince Albert walked out, and again promenaded in the afternoon, attended by tbe suite. , . Their Royal Highnesses the Prince of Wales and the merchants bought largely on speculation, and im- , Princess Royal were taken an airing. Sir Robert Peel and Lerd Stanley are expected at Castle early next week, on a visit to her Majeaty. the porters refused to sell without greatly advanced prices. Hundreds of strangers to the market plunged into it through the agency of j Her Majesty, the Queen Dodger, attended by Viscountess year lo.o , Barrington, took an airing in an open phaeton on Friday, in the drives adjacent to her residence, Canford-house, Dorsetshire. Her Msjesty has taken frequent airings during brokers and dealers. In the year ' 1826 the speculation soon exploded, article were driven up like rockets, and exploded with the same rapi dity but tbe lato speculation in the tea market had an existence of nearly three years. Twice was peace proclaimed, and twice did the war recommence but with the jsame result Its regarded the trade, which was kept open. Tea was twice at Is. 6d. and twice at 3s. 2d., with innumerable oscillations between these extremes. The speculation, says cur au thor, although unfortunate and disastrous in its re sults, yielded at different periods large profits. Some few hut very few embraced them, and quitted the field. The large majority, although they occa sionally quitted, yet returned aud floated on with the tide, which frequently rolled back with magic speed to low water mark, without leaving time to escape. This passage is rather a figurative way of telling that, although a few of tbe speculators sold nt a profit, the hulk of them held on or renewed their ventures, and were, eventually,' left in the mud, se verely punished. The writer of this pamphlet, we observe, does not think that the trade, for a length of time to come, will to any extent be removed from Canton, because hitherto the Hong at Canton have advanced a large portion of the price to the tea mer chants before they left Canton for the tea districts to purchase for the ensuing season. He does not expect that the opening uf Amoy and other ports near to the place of growth will be fairly accelerated by the Chinese government aud although the treaty ot Nankin stipulates that a tariff shall be ad justed on regular and just principles, he puts small faith in that stipulation, because, in the case of Eugland and France, the duties that ought to be paid upon a bale of cotton twist and a puncheon of brandy have not yet been decided. There is a vast difference, however, between the two cases. Not only the difference that exists as between a civilised nation standing on the vantage ground of conquest over its humbled opponent totally unacquainted with tbe forms of European diplomacy, but there is the difference, also, that tbe treaty cf Nankin is th sequence of peace between China and England whereas the commercial treaty with France was broken off by a coldness between Frsnce and Eng-laad, which at one period wore a belligerent aspect. We exD ct that the conditions of the treaty of Nan kin wiU be practically carried out, and that a tariff M on regular and just principles will accordingly be adjusted. We look for that adjustment on the basis of sir reciprocity, and should this expectation be realised, the admission of British ships to tht ports uf the tea districts will speedily effect a great improvement iu the Ua market of China white it must, at tbe same time, produce a corresponding diminution in ihe price, free on board, by saving the expense of land carriage now incurred in tram-p •rung the commodity to Canton. The author ot the pamphlet docs not touch upon tbe policy of the present mode of levying the tea duties in this country-a defect, we think, in his ■work that we wish he would yet supply. He in-lo 1 . that there are about 1,200. chests, or ,K C'-nsnmed daily in the Cnued Ki'.o-d.im From the recent favourable weather. Tbe Duke of Cambridge visited her Royal Highness the Duchess of Gloucester on Saturday, at Gloucester-house. Mr. Masterm n, M.P., and n deputation, had an inter view with tile Chancellor of the Exchequer on Saturday, at his official residence iu Downiug-street. Count lteventlow, the Danish minister, transacted buei ness on Saturday, at the office of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Everett, the American minister, lias returned to town from a visit to Lord Ashburton. His Excellency trans acted business on Saturday at the office of the Board of Trade. Deepatcbes were sent off on Saturday evening from t! Colonial-office, for the Governor of Ceylon. Hbr Majesty thr Quern Dowager.-a Correspondent. -Canford-house, Friday.-Her AJBSTY continues to enjoy excellent health, and during the week, owing to the prevailing Sue weather, has almost daily taken carriage airings in this neighbourhood. His Serene Highness Prince Edward of Saxe Wbthar, who arrived on Saturday on a visit to bis illustrious aunt, left on Tuesday to join his regiment at Winchester. Sir David Davies, physician In ordinary to her Majesty, arrived on Saturday, and has since been staying here. We hear that bis Royal Highness tbe Prince of Wales has been suffering from teething, but in other re spects he is quite well. The Princess Royal has be come much stronger lately. The Lord Chancellor will give his usual de-jeune to the judges, Ac., on Wednesday, the 11th instant, the first day of Hilary Term. His lordship was in town on Saturday to affix the great seal to the treaty of peace be tween this country and China. The Willoughby d'Erbeby Family.-The oomingof age of the Hon. Albbric Vt illouuhby, son of Lord and Lady Willoughby D'£RB8BV,heirofthe noble houses of Perth and Willoughby, in Scotland, andofGwy-der, iu Wales, has occasioned unusual rejoicings on the family estates In the north, and in the principality. At Muthill, a populous village, about a mile from Drummond Castle, Perthshire, the inhabitants evinced their respect to the family, by making Monday last a general holiday. There was a dinner of the principal tenants and feuars at the Masons'-haU. The Hon. the Master of Strathallan presiding. The Inhabitants of Crieff had a publio dinner, at which Viscount Strathallan was to have taken the chair, but was prevented by a slight indisposition. Mr. A. Campbell, M.P., Sir David Dundas. Bart., and about IfiOgsntlsmen, were present. In Wales there was an equal mark of esteem displayed by the tenantry. Tbs public din ner at Carnarvon, on Tuesday, was most numerously at tended. At Llanrwst triumphal arohes were erected, aud two oxen were roasted whole in the market-place, and distributed amongst the poor. There was au entertainment at tb Town-haU, at which nearly 900 dined, in addition to Bsre. The poor of Dolwyddelan, Lana-had six bullocks divided amongst them. pEblic din doget, and Trefrtw, u u uuuw -• Tb Gulnsthorpe tenantry celebrated the event by a public dinner on Monday, and a ball on Thursday last. Earl Spencer hu been entertaining a few select friends at Althorp-park, since his return from the Duke of Bedford's, at Woburn Abbey. Lord Duncannon is expseted on a visit to the noble lord, and the Hon. Cap tain and Mrs. F. Spencer, Hon. Captain and Mr9. Wat son, c., have arrived. The Duke and Duchess of Richmond and family have been seeing company at G x-dwood during the week. The Duke and Lady Caroline Lennox arrived at Good-wood on Saturday week, from a visit to Lord Ward, at Himley Hail. The Right Honourable Sir Robert Pf.el is ex pected to leave Drayton Manor,for Windsor Castle, to-day. 1 aving received an nvita.i. n to i..ii the rcysil tiro! . THE MAGAZINES FOR THB MONTH. New Year's-day is' a positive day of delight to the maga-iiae reader. All his customary channels of amusement and information are foil of promise if they are foil of nothiug else, though, to say truth, most of them do their little best to set as good a face as possible on the first num ber of a new volume, and poetry, polities, and pleasantry are all burnished up for the festive season. The Tory ma gazines are particularly strong in their politics this month, and Blackwood and Frater come forth with their respec tive lucubrations, which harmonise about as well as the Tuesday's leader in the TYsies does with that which was printed on the preceding Monday, and which is probably forgotten by all the world, Bave, perhaps, by some rival editor, who enlivens the public by exposing the proverbial consistency of Printing-house-square. Blackwoodt leading article for January is modestly eu titled, Great Britain at the Commencement of the Year 1843. It is a dissertation, which, by the aid of a multitude of facte, for which the writer stands indebted to bis imagi nation, and by a convenient oblivion of others that might have been troublesome to a more retentive memory, makes out a tolerable prima facie case for his clients. Thus, the desperate policy which led our heaven-born mi nieter to impose the prop8rty-tax upon the peo' pie is boldly ascribed to the empty condition in which he found the public coffers. Not a syllable is aid in allusion to the plan by which the late government proposed to replenish those coffers, by opening the Brazils and tbe Baltic to British commerce. These are things it is convenient to target. On the other hand, it thought fair to assume that the Tory advent has alone sufficed, not only to inspire all foreign nations with asalu. tary dread, but also to conjure fulness into the Treasury purse. Yet the lost revenue returns presented no such consoliog news, and a few days must yet elapse before w cau know what the January tables may bave to tell us. As to the future viewsof Sir Robert respecting the sliding' scale, Blackwood is evidently in an uncomfortable state o l suspense. That some further alteration, he says, may not ere long be made on the scale of duties, no one can assert, though we have no reason to believe that any such is at present contemplated but that the principle of the • sliding-scale,' as it Is called, will be firmly adhered to, we eutortain no doubt whatever. The principle of the sibling scale! Where is its prin ciple ? You may alter the scale of duties till you take away the last vestige of the farmers' fancied protection. By mul • tiplying rests you may approximate nearer and nearer to a fixed duty, and yet your minister will remain a man as firm in principle, as distinguished for consistency, as before he traversed the floor of the house, or was pushed by the deluded farmers of England into a mischievous power, tbe effects of which they have since felt in common with the rest of the Queen's subjects. The late law appointments, too, must be defended. This is a ticklish matter aud Blackwood, conscious cf what awkward ground he has got upon, runs away at once to Dike shelter in the old worn out cant, that men making their thousands at tbe bar are not to be tempted into office by such paltry salaries as £1,500 a year! From which it is intended, we should Infer, that all those lawyers who surpass Lord Lyndhurst's proteges are making rapid for tunes by their profession ! Passing on to foreign politics, it is but just to say that Blackwood has manliness enough to scorn tbe base lies and drivelling nonsense which have been put forward with a view to make the simple part of the public believe that our quarrel with China was entered on in order to force the opium trade upon the Celestial Empire. This atrocious calumny, invented originally for factious purposes, has been eagerly taken up by a hostile press abroad, and by a vast number of dunces at horns, but is calculated to impose ouly on those whose intelligence or information is at an amazingly low ebb. The thing is worn out, however, and Blackwood, by throwing the stale commodity overboard, e how6 that he addresses himself to the better poitioa of his party. But here are his words -Were we justified in our attack upon the Emperor of Cbipa? We have no hesitation whatever in expressing our opinion, after having had our attention for some years directed to the subject of our relation with China, in the affirmative. From tbe moment of our first intercourse with that people, we have had to submit to a series of indignities sufficient to kindle into fury tbe feelings of any one who merely reads any authentic account of those indignities. The Chinese have long derived an immense revenue, toge ther with other great advantages, from us encouraging us to embark a vast capital in our trade with them, and to form great permanent establishments dependent upon it. Language cannot describe the degrading circumstances under which we have been forced to carry on our com mercial intercourse with the Chines our long submission to such conduct having, of course, insured its continual aggravation. The opium trade, perhaps beneficially, In ought matters to a crisis. It was alleged on behalf of the Emperor that we were surreptitiously, and from motives ol gain, corrupting and destroying his people, by supplying them with opium but it is easily demonstrable that this was only a pretence for endeavouring to effect a change in the medium of our dealings with them, vastly beneficial to the Emperor, and disadvantageous to us. Aud then he proceeds to detail the tariy history of the quarrel, with tolerable fairness, interspersing his narrative, of eourse, with a multitude of unsavoury epithets for the Whigs, chequered with divers eulogistic ravings to the be nefit of which his political friends shall at all seasons be heartily welcomed. The miscellaneous articles of Blackwood are, as they mostly are, well selected. Sincerely do we wish we had as well conducted a magazine on our own side. We have not read CalebStukely, but we are assured by those that have been more diligent, that the tale is an excellent one. An Imaginary Conversation, by Savage Landor, is not one of his best, and a paper on the Aris tocracies of London Life, is drawn out to a merciless length nevertheless, the former is not without dramatic interest, and the latter contains many healthy truths, though mixed with personal insinuations, the absenco of which would not have weakened the writer's general re marks. Two Hours of Mystery is an amusing tale and would make an excellent plot for a farce. Talking of farces-Blackwood has actually perpetrated twenty pages of enlogy on Lord Londonderry's last tour! Poor Mar quess ! Well may he call on heaven to save him from his friends. His silly book was almost forgotten, and here comes an imprudent piece of puffery to tear open the quiet grave, and force the troubled ghost to stalk abroad again. Among tho poetical contributions to Blackwood this month are some exquisitely sweet lines. Turning to Fraeer.we are sorry to say that the number Is one that we have looked, through with disgust. The poli tical article our eastern policy , is written in all that odious spirit of mingled Toryism and Chartism, in which the vul-garest portion of the self-styled Conservatives have long loved to revel. But we look not for much in Frater politics, and seldom find them more insipid or less candid than we expect. What in the present number has particu larly disgusted us is, the leading article Oliver Yorke at Home , the poorest and most vapid of all the bad imitations oi Blackwood'e once famed Noctee that ever was palmed upon tho public. There was a dashing! braggadocio impudence about the said Noctee, but every oae was willing to forgive the mamie r of the thing for tbe rich matter often contained In it. Oliver Yorke, like all vulgar imitators, fastens on the worst parts of his model, and manifests not the least conception of those excellencies that won our applause. Every barn door ranter can imitate the husky voice and the sudden etarts of Edmund Kean, but where ehall we look for his lightning glance and the heartfelt pathoe which thrilled upon our feelings? Even so, tbe veriest hack thet ever drudged in Grub-etreet may assume the drunken impu dence in which Christopher North occasionally indulged but hie sparkling humour, his quick judgment of men and thiDgs, were his own, and are not to be put on with the sameease with which a swell-mob dandy dons the cast-off finery of a peer. Men of sense may sometimes tolerate th axcesses of a convivial table, for the sake of the choice spirits assombled there but who would not shun the noisy orgies of a gin-shop, enlivened by no bettor mirth than the second-haud impertinence ol a quality footman ? The Monthly Magazine continues to promise well. As the only Liberal Miecellany in the market, it may be said to enjoy a kind of monopoly, but its corps of contri butors must be strengthened, or it will not do the cause al the good we have a right to expoet. The Farmer's Fire side, the first of a series of Corn-law Tales, is well-timed, aud seems to come from a new hand that will improve with practice. The introduction of Mr. Cobden among the dra matis persona is clumsily managed, but the rest of tho tale is good, and exemplifies tho protection of the corn-laws with a good deal of force. The remaining articles are well chosen. Nursery Rhymes for Sucking Politicians Is not a bad idea. Here Is ons oi the lullabies intended for Sir Robert's particular use Slippery Bob to the formers did hi With a tala 'bout eating their misery And as the poor formers did ding to his foil, He led them dunce on the ulifMng §c le. 'Hold tight now.'says Bobby, you muoh-lqjured elves,'--So slipp'd sff, and bit them to slide by themselves. They slid on so swiftly, that scarcely, alack ! Could one of them stop till he fall on his back. Oh fie, foolish formers! you made a line job, Ol clutching the tail of sly slippery Bob. Facts and Figures of General Interest seems Intended to form a standing article in the Monthly, and Is deserving of more extension. Upon the whole, the periodical is one that the Liberal party will do well to encourage. Bentley comes out with great strength. Mr. Ledbury's adventures In Islington, are as amusing as those through which we accompanied him In Paris Crowquill's illus trations are excellent, and Ingoldsby's Legend of St Medard is alone worth more than twice the cost of the magazine. The rest of tbe number, to be sure, is midioerc en ugb. Among what are called literary notices, but • 'at i. itai.ij a ,#!..re nfi- M,, B ntta s iwn pub-7 cations, there is a paragraph on Ingoldsby's Legen£T which that gentleman ought to resent. The publisher should keep such offensive commendations for the illus trious obscure of his establish ment. Ainsworth presents us with a sprightly number. Wind sor Castle,'' by the editor, continues its slow progress The portion in this month's number is strongly spiced with diablerie in the Castle oi Otranto style. The Legend of Normandy and a Venetian Romance art also not the best sort of reading just before bed time for nervous young ladies, or for yonng gentlemen of susceptible timidity. Mr. Blanchard's Dream at Hoplodge, though likewise dealing in the marvellous, is less harrowing in its super natural incidents, and withal an amusing trifling. Work ing up Junk is an Incongruous title to a sober matter-of-fact history of the British navy. A Frenchman, bent on treating our maritime glory as sheer romance, might have deemed the title suitable enough. The Legitimate Drama In China is a heavy pointless piece of humour. The Metropolitan, like Ainsworth and Bentley, Is too much made up of narratives and thaagh, in the present number, there are fewer fragments than in the preceding one, there are still too many by for. Savlndroog, a Hindoo romance, has reached the 28th chapter but having read none of the preceding portion of the story, we presume not to express an opinion on its merits. Some of the shorter tales are good enough in their kind, but are none of them of striking excellence. SECOND LETTER FROM LORD NUGBNT to the REV. JOHN HARRISON on the CONDI TION of the AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS. FROM THB AYLESBURY NEWS. Lilies, December 28,1842. My Dear Sir,-Since about three weeks sgo, when I availed myself of the sanction of your name in ad dressing a letter through you to tbe public on the saffer-ings and wrongs of the labouring poor in our neighbour hood, I find that the evil and scandal of disproportionately low wages have been increasing. I have carefoliy con sulted the opinions and experience of others as to the calculation, in which you aud I agreed, of tRe lowest amount, and the lowest price, of the food and other articles of consumption necessary for supporting an agricultural labourer, in health aud strength, through the dally work required from him. Subsequent inquiry aud advice have more and more con vinced me that, in that calculation, I rather understated than exaggerated the result. I guarded myself, however, throughout against being supposed to aesese the due rate of remuneration for labour by the measure of what may be ne cessary for the support of healthy existence. For this would be a principle as preposterously uujust as that of measuring iv other marketable commodity by a like I showed that, even at the present price of provisions, no single man in this neighbourhood can maiu-the price of any standard. But I i tain himself in health and strength upon lees than 8s. 3 d. weekly, and no married man with an average family of three children and their mother, upoD less than 14s. 61a. a week, exclusive of harvest wages. I beg those wno think that, in this, I overstated the truth, to give their calculation of the necessaries of life and of the cost of these things to the poor at retail village prices. I said that troops oi willing and able labourers ware wandering through the country seeking in every village and at every door for work, in vain. I said that ths labouring popula tion, in mauy of tbe parishes round, in the midst of a re dundancy of provisions, and after a prosperous harvest, were iu a state ot destitution, and on the verge of famine the result of a baleful artificial system, ruinous to the farmer, and destructive of the peasantry. I showed from the report of the medical pereons who are answerable tor the Banatory condition of the poor in the workhouse, that the labouring population are weakened in health, and their lives endangered by the inadequate means of support, the result of low wages. I seid that I believed 1 that farmers generally bad little power at this time to employ labourers at fair wages and I implored such landlords as had not deeply considered the question of how much de pended on them t look well to it now for the sake of humanity, for the sake of justice, for the sake of the secu rity oi property, to consider the case of those whom I know to be reduced to a cruel alternative, between starving with their families, or being driven through despair to degrada tion. The poor are kindly, honest, and long-suffering in their want but they must not be urged too for in this dreadful trial, or be made to endure to tbe last, because of tbe ill-requited patience with which they have already en dured so much. 1 declined, in my farmer letter, to specify examples of misconduct towards the poor, in particular parishes, but it would be trifling with so fearful and so urgent a subject to continue to deal with generalities only, and so perhaps risk the falling under a charge of bringing general accusations without power to particularize. Some wretched men I fell in with, a few days ago. 1 questioned them. I heard their statement. I inquired into its truth. It has been confirmed to me. They were from the parish of Waddeedon. In that parish a great portion oi the labouring poor are without employ, and, therefore, without means of subsistence. Those who are employed are em ployed according to the iniquitous and ruinous system of wages apportioned to tbe extent of families, and received for work,under the name of wages,6s.aweek to men withJamiU.es, and. to single men is., the latter allowance being less than one haf of what I have shown to be necessary for proper subsistence. I have lately returned from' pass ing a fortnight in Leicestershire. I find the general rate of agricultural wages there to be 12s. a week iu many in stances, l! e. in some, higher varying according to the quality of the labourer. Aud there, caals, a large aud most necessary item in tbe expenses of life, are sold at the rate of 12s. the ton, at ths labourer's door. Here the labourer cannot uuy them at a less rate than 20s. at the wharf, or in hit own village, at the retail dealer's, at s less rate than trom 27s. to 80s. the ton in the one case, without deduct ing the expense ot carriage, therefore, at 75 per cent, dearer, and in the other, with that deduction, and the profits of tbe retail dealer, at from 125 to 150 per cent, dearer. I am entitled, then, to ask, unless it be believed that the Leices tershire labourer be blindly squandering his money, is the labourer in the vale of Aylesbury justly or honestly dealt with ? . But the answer £iven to all this is, that the action of de mand upon supply must always regulate price. Nothing can be truer, and nothing would be fairer if the principle were universally applied nothing more iniquitous where it is not. I repeat over and over again what I have said so often, notwithstanding the charge of reiterating e evident, unvarying, and distasteful doctrine, until I ehall find a reasonable answer given to what I believe admits not of controversy, because truth, however evident, un varying, or distasteful, demands that it should always be kept in mind. If the occupier of land claim, as a right, protection for the value of his produce, if the landlord claim as a right protection for the value of his land, the value of which must be measured by the value of its produce, the labourer has an equal right, he has a much higher right, to protection for the value of his produce, his labour, because he has no capital to stand out for price during its fluctuations. He is day by day dependent on mar kets which, under the present vicious system, destroy him, impoverish the farmer, and against which only the command of capital can enable anv man whose fortunes depend on the value ol agricultural produce to wait upon the fluctuations of what seasons may affect but law has rendered ruinously precarious. It, then, he who rents land, or he who lcte it, claim pro tective laws for his produce, but at the same time claim that labour, which gives value to his property, shall remain Unprotected and dependent on hie demand for it, this is to require, under tbe name and sanction of law, the power of committing open and unmitigated robbery a power to demand a protected and arbitrary price for the provisions he offers for sale, and to give an unprotected price, subject only to his own wants, for that labour by which those provisions are produced. I wish to see if there be any fallacy in this view of the subject. If there be, I entreat, I challenge, the exposure of it. If there be not some fallacy in it, which I have been unable to discover, a question on which I observe that all attempt at answer is evaded, I repeat that this unequal prineiple of dealing may be privilege, it may be power, but it is tbe reverse of justice. I should be dishonest, and a dissembler, JANUARY 2. S4 J THE LABOURERS IN DORSETSHIRE.-TO GEORGE RANKES, ESQ, M.P. if I were to soften the phrase. Hence instances, like one which came before me this morning, I am sorry and ashamed to say in the parish in which I live, and in which, to their credit I say it, the formers have generally been more considerate towards the poor than in most of the surrounding ones. A hard-working and good labourer, who is endeavouring to find support for his large family out of the cruelly inadequate wages paid to him by his employer 8s. a week , admitted, when questioned on the subject, that he has been unable, out of that pittance, ever since the setting in of winter, to afford to himself any better nourishment than about three-quarters of a pound of bread each day, with rarely half a poumd of bacon to be divided among his whole family in the week, and that upon this food, as of course must be the case, he finds himself un able to face his day's work. So long as I shall have the nnhappinees of seeing such cruelty inflicted upon the industrious and suffering poor, however unpopular the expoeure, by mo it shall never cease to be exposed. I live among formers, I live among landlords, some of whom are considerate, many not. All my habits, ail my interests, are bound up with those of the land. But I will not see ornel injustice daily and systematically committed, without raising my voice to make it known and to protest against it. Then, what is the remedy ? I repeat, I believe it rests mainly with tbe landlords. In tbe meanwhile the unions have a pressing duty to perform. The inquiry should not be only Can you not get employ ?'' It should be Can you not, with all due diligence, get employ at wages that will support you ? If not, you have a right to relief at the publio oharge. You are a pauper, unable, with all the efforts you can make, to support yourself. How often have I heard employers say I have offered him work. I am ready to give him work. It is an obvious truth-and yet truths, however obvious, often require the stating-that work Is no advantage to the labourer. It is the wages of Work that he requires. If I say, in the usual phrase, I will give you employ, that is, in other words, . . . era will be found in every market to take the property of another o their own pries sad the proprietor would not dis cover that any great benefit hsd been done to Mm, Manyan intolerable wrong in prsotioe is don under oover of a fallacy In words. I protest against the specious phrase, H can get work. The duty of union Is to satisfy themselves that he can got proper wags . If he oannet he Is ontltlsd to relief from raiss. And thsn th landlord and tb former together would arrange ths means for doing Justice, for making th interests of ail classes in agriculture a common interest, and in restoring to th land, and to all that lhrt by it, that steady prosperity which it never ha known sines, end never can know while, laws of fluctuating Influence counteract the order of a wise and good Protldeuee, by which all people are enablod to supply each other's wants with mutual benefit to all. I am, my dear sir, with great truth, Faithfully yours, To th Rsv. John Ifarrison. Nugent. • This parish bAongs to the Duke of Marlborough, a non-resident landlord. Income Tax.-Durham.-We understand that, in consequence of Sir Robert Peel's income tax. tbe practice of giving Christmas boxes iu this town is well nigh aban doned. Tjras the poor, as well as tbe middle.classes, feel the effects of ibis galling and obnoxious impost.-Durham County Herald. 1... , Sir-Having just read your speech, delivered on the 24th of December, at the dinner of the Blandford agricul tural meeting, aud having recently visited your estate to inquire into, and report on, the condition of the labouren employed by you and your tenants, and also those em ployed by other landowners and their tenants in your dis trict of the country, I feel myself constrained to address you thus publicly on some of the toples of your speech. First of the Anti-Com-law League. You say- Nor is the principle on which the League is founded more odious, as being adverse to the spirit of our constitution, than its pro ceedings are hatefnl as being advene to the spirit of our law. And again you say- The voice of the people of England is not to be bought with money. Petitions, how ever, are to be procured, and it Is not one of the least grievous circumstances which attend those efforts, that the sacred right of petitioning may thus be brought into dis credit by its abuse. And is it to be believed that £50,000 is requisite to induce the people of England to petition for a matter on which, we are told, they have already set their hearts ? In these passages, Hr. Bankes, you attempt to impress your hearers with the most unworthy opinion of the League you could wish them to be possessed of-the belief that the £50,000 fund is to be expended in getting up parliamentary petitions for the purpose of injuring agriculture. At the same time you profees to have no fear of the Teague you compare it to the fly on the oarriage-whee , which said See what a dust I'm making and you conclude by saying, Let us take care that the evil day, be it short or be it long, shall nut fall upon those who are lees able to bear it than ourselves let it not fall on the labourers. We have all, against a rainy day, tight roofs and blazing fires let not these comforts be wanting to the poor. To-morrow, oa the great anniversary of Christian thankfulness, we shall each, in our happy homes, enjoy the social circles of relations and friends and, trust me, our own cheerful hearths will seem to burn the brighter when we remem ber that our cottagers have bright hearths and cheerful circles too. Buch professions of kind regard for the poor are not un usual at the meetings of agricultural societies neither are such fears for the prosperity oi agriculture as you profess to entertain, in connection with the proceedings of the League, unusual on the contrary, the commonest features iu the proceedings of sucli meetings as that at Blandiord are the reiterated assertions that the soil of England can only be cultivated if protected from foreign competition and that, above all things, tbe employment and welfare of the labourers demands that the cultivation of tbe land should not be endangered. These being tbe most usual aud most forcible arguments put forth in defence of the corn-laws, it became a question with the League to as certain how far these arguments were well founded. I an one of the individuals whom tho council selected to inquire into and report on this important subject. The council deemed it requisite to ascertain as many facts as possible relating to agriculture. They knew that much misrepresentation had gone abroad amongst tbe farmers re specting their proceedings in Manchester that much igno rance pervaded the agricultural classes of all ranks in rc spect of the value of protection to agriculture, and that it was desirable to ascertain what tbe condition of the farmers and labourers was what the nature of the misrepresentation, what the extent ol the ignorance, in order to have both re moved, by sending lecturers and publications into each district with information and argument suitable to their special circumstances. It was determined that each elector oi the United King dom, and, as far as the £50,000 fund would permit, each non-elector, should have a library ei information supplied which would suffice to displace the Ignorance and the mis representation, and set clearly before the mind of each indi vidual the whole merits of the corn-law question. To this purpose, Mr. Bankes, and not to the purchase of signatures to the petitions, which you say will briog the sacred right of petitioning into discredit by its abuse, is the great fund of the League to be devoted. And that you may be the better assured that this is the direction in which the money is going, and to 6ome extent has gone, I have to inform you that, in obedience to instruc tions, I have visited your estate, as also tbe estates of some other lords and gentlemen who a ere with you at theBland lord meeting, and bave made a report of what I saw, which re port you will see from time to time in the paper published by the League, called the Anti-Bread-tax Circular. Meantime I nave to say that I am truly sorry that every thing I saw on tbe farm fields, iu ths tarm houses, in the cottages, and all that I heard from formers and labourers on your property, impressed me with opinions of pour prac tice as a landlord quite at variance with those you seem to hold in theory Judging of you by your speech, no man could think otherwise than that you were one of the most liberal patrons of tbe poor, one who would save the la bourer trom starvation, whether starved by cold or hunger, if you could. We might suppose even more, judging by your speech, we might suppose you to be a zealous pro moter of every rational measure for the moral advancement as well as physical comforts of your labouring people. I do not say that you have no wish to promote such desi rable objects. 1 do not say that you spoke that which you never thought of fulfilling. I can only speak of what I saw on your property but as you conclude your speech bv asking leave to add to the old toast of live and let live the words and let well alone, I must presume that you have not changed, nor intended to change, your system, or rather, I should say, your want of system, In managing your extensive property, and in keeping around you a popu lation the moat illiterate, ill paid, and ill fed of auy in the United Kingdom, I found your farms cultivated in a very Inadequate mauner. You exercise a power over your tenantry in re spect ef tenures and political subjugation which will pre vent them from farming your land as it should be formed, even if they were the most enlightened tenantry that ever cultivated the soil. But instead of being men oi intelligence and enterprise, they are as much the reverse as can well be imagined. The ability. While you are speaking in public ol making bearthe of the labourers cheeriul and warm, yon either k nr should know, that throughout the higher districts of Dorsetshire coals are a luxury which no labourer can afford, save in very small quantities. When wages were higher last year by one or two shillings a week than this year, your labourers in their miserable hovels, which have neither tight roofs, nor tight doors,'' nor tight any thing but tight rents and pinchiug hunger to dis tinguish them-in those hovels your labourers were without fires, save when cooking their scanty meals and this year, when coals are still ae dear, you talk of the warm hearths of the labourer and his cheerful society as things to be preserved by keeping off the evil day. If such was not yeur meaning, ifyou meant that the labourers of your own and your neighbours' estates are already eo poor that they canuot have warm hearths and cheerful meals, without charitable assistance, if your speech was intended to prompt your neighbours to join with you in making ths firesides of the labourers glad during the holi days by such charitable assistance-how can you and your neighbours be satisfied at having a population swarm ing around you so poor and wretched 7 How can you justify the reduction of wages which has so generally taken place? 55 hat avails it that you pathetically ask the gentlemen around you to save the labourers from ths evU day, when in times like the present, which you acknowledge to ha fofr times, all things considered, your tenants are annually screwed by a rack-rent, and, as a natural consequence, screw all they can out of their labourers to pay such rack-rents? I have seen yeur labouring people in full employment without a change of clothes. I have seen tho merest remnants of blanket rags to cover a family of six children, with their hardworking father and mother. I hare seen working men on your property, who declared to me they did not taste butcher's meat wr six mouths, that potatoes and lard, the latter in small quantity, and greens, and anything of that sort ''-such was their own expression-wlth one-hall less bread than they could eat that this meagre food was their sole diet for months together. And how oan it be otherwise, Mr. Bankes, on six, seven, and eight shillings a week ? Those who had eight shillings last year are reduced to seven this how, then, can you speak of saving from the labourers the evil day ? In Dorsetshire, whatever tbe changes may be in other counties, do change takes place iu respect of the labourer, but a chanJeU perpetuate the - evil day to perpetuate this dav. despite all other favouring circumstances. I talked with wives, mothers, and fathers oi families on vour estate, who all told me that during the recent years of hi h priced provisions thsy had not been able to buy, save iu a very limited degree, new clothes several of the families had not purchased a single article of dress for three years, so dear had been their food-so low their wages. This year they looked forward with hope to cheaper food for a saving wherewith to buy clothes. But most of them have had thefr 8 wages token down several had their mfoerable pa, reduced even before they tasted the cheaper food. IVhatever you may choose to say,m misrepresentation of the Anti-Corn-law League, Mr. Bankes, be assured of this, that the League will now prevent you, aud those who act with you, aTtDCORN-LAIY LEAGUE. Unhbalthinebs of the Season.--The re turns made to the Salisbury Registrar, for the current quarter, of deaths which have taken place in the three parishes of the city, exceed the usual average by about °° £biob8ter Gaol at a Premium.-The other week a vagrant named Trane promfoed to leave the town il the magistrates would not convict him and he did so, six-Dsnco and a loaf having boon given to him. He reached Flarborough, and then retraced hi steps to Lclcceter, hav-ing been told that our gaol was ths most oomfortable place in which he oould take up his winty quartan! He has accordingly taken lodging there for a fortnight.-Leicester CT Rbntb.-a rumour Is afloat that the Marques of Westminster purposes making a considerable reduction in bit rents, in oonsequtne of tb low prio of produce, and the heavy burdens that at present foil upon th tenantry.-Chester Chronicle. ir One thousand tickets were issued on Wtdnotday for the great free-trade feefivsl at Glasgow, which is fixed ior tho 11th instant. Curious and Fatal Accident.-On Saturday last as s man named Saby, a Burton and Kettering carrier, was riding through Barton Seagrave, with bis son, a young man of about 18, an elm tree, standing In the cbnrobyanf, tell on the cart, Injured slightly the lather, and broke the son's back. Some men were employed in felling the tree, and it appears had cut it away on one elde, without being a ware that the other was considerably decayed. A rope had been sent for by which to control its fall but before the return of the person sent the tree fell, and at the instant of Its foil the unfortunate subjects of ths accident wore pas ing by.-Northampton Herald TRIAL of BESSON far the MURDER of M. MARCELL ANGR, COURT OF ASSIZES' OF THE RHONE. Eighth Day, Dec. 26. Immediately after the opening of the oourt, M. Bsc said that he was desirous, before addressing the Jury in reply to M. Laohaud, to put a few questions to M. Boric, the physi cian of Puy. The President ordered M. Borle to be recalled. The witness having appeared, H. Bac asked him whether he was notat Chamblas on the 2d September for the porpoee of performing tbe autopsy of the body of M. de Marcellange, and whether on that occasion he bad not seen Beeson, and what was his condition. M. Boric replied that during the whole of tbe time that he was at Chamblas he saw Beeson moving about. He waited upon them at table and witness, as a physician, and for another motive which it was not necessary to state, looked at him particularly. He saw only the recent traces of small-pox, but the idea of Besson being unable to walk had never once entered his mind. M. Bac Then you thiuk Besson was able to walk ? M. Bori£ I repeat that the idea of hi not being able to do ao never entered my mind. The Abbh Paul now expressed his wish to rectify the de position that be had made. The President said he had been twice before the court, and plenty of time had been afforded him to rectify eyery error that he had committed. The Abb4 Paul I have said that Mari# Boudon had men-tloned to my servant that she had told M. de Marcellange to be on his guard. I wish now to state that it was M. de Marcellange himself who told me that Marie Boudon had made use of this language to him. M. Bac now rose to reply to M. Lachaud. His speech, which lasted three hours, was very brilliant and powerful, but necessarily in a great degree a repetition of what he had said in his first address. He ' evidence very minutely again went through the dwelling forcibly upon all the depositions which tended directly or indirectly to show that Beeson was not in the condition oi health at the time of the murder represented by the counsel for the de fence, and that there was consequently no physical imposs-sibility of his having been the murderer. The evidence of objections of t He then proceeded entitled to great weight with the jury. . to examine the evidence for the alibi, and contended that it was altogether a failure. Alluding to Mme. de Mar cellange and her mother, who bad not ventured to make their appearance on the present trial, a d to the excuse which had been set up for their delence, he denied that they had any reason to dread the excitement which it i had been got up against them, or that they were the victims of calumny. Their absence, said M. Bac, was to be attributed to other motives. They dreaded the search lug interrogations to which they would be subjected. He noticed ae a striking foot that these ladies, who at tbe assizes for the Puy de Dome bad sworn so positively to no alibi, had not been so positive until the necessity of such evidence in favour of Besson became necessary, as the only means of saving him. Madame de Marcellange, iu a deposition which she had made relative to Araac, had said she thought Besson was at Puy on the evening of the 1st of September. He concluded by expressing his conviction of the guilt of Besson, ana of the impossibility of coming to any other opinion from the evidence which the jury had heard on the present trial. M. Lachaud rose to reply, but he had not proceeded far, when, from the fatigue of his previous exertion, he was evidently in an unfit state to continue, and applied to the court for the indulgence of an adjournment ontil the following day. The President eaid that, notwithstanding the length of time which the trial had already ocoupied, he was very wil ling to consent to the application of the learned gentleman, if he felt confident that his indisposition would not prevent his resuming his arguments on the next day. M. Lachaud said he had every reason to hope he would be able to continue his address on the following day but, should he be uuable to do so, he would confide the task to one of the gentlemen who were engaged with him for the defence. The President then adjourned the court until next day at nine o'clock. Ninth Day, Dec. 27. The oourt was again crowded to excess. Whilst the usual formalities of the opening were going on, it was whispered that Mme. de Marcellange and her mother were at Lyons, and that domiciliary visits bad been paid to several houses, in the hope of discovering them, and inducing them to ap pear. AU attempts to find them, however, had been fruitless. It was added that M. Vincent Saint Bonnet, one ot the counsel engaged for them, had only consented to give his assistance on the express condition that they would make their appearance in court. When Besson was broaght into court every eve was ired more downcast than on irved to walk with difficulty, ct that presented Berard, the mat-turned towards him. He api any preceding day, and was of ana to lean for support upon ever itself on his way to the prisoners'' tress-maker, who was under surveillance, on the charge of having deposed falsely against Besson, appeared to be al most overcome with emotion. He sighed frequently, and raised his eyes to Heaven. Araac was as animated as ever, apparently indifferent to everything but ths notority of bis position. Jacques Bernard, the other man, who was con demned for perjury in favour of Besson, at Riom, remained in bis usual state of apathy. M. Lachaud, on rising to address the jury, thanked the courtforits indulgeuceinadjourning the proceedings on ac-countof his indisposition, andsaid he trusted he should now have sufficient strength to go through the task, and convey to the jury his own conviction of the innocence of the pri soner. The learned gentleman then went through the re mainder of the evidence for and against Besson with the same tact and skill ai he had already evinced, commenting npon the weak points of the testimony for the prosecution, and bringing forth, in the strongest possible manner, all that could tell to the advantage of hie client. When he had concluded, he again alluded to the absence of Mme. de Marcellange.aud her mother. He said M. Bac has re marked on the llight of the ladies of Chamblas, and has told yon that. If they were not the accomplices of Besson, they would have been here. To me, however, it appears, that their absence Is the gravest obstacle to the acquittal of Besson. I will revsrse the argument of the partie civile, and say that, if the ladies of Chamblas were the accomplices of the prisoner, they would not, dreading any disclosures which he might make in their absence, have quitted him for an instant. Would they not, if they were his accomplices, be constantly at haHd to urge him by their looks to persevere iu a system of denegation 1 On Friday last I wrote to them to sum mon them to Lyons, and to appear before you. I had hoped that they would have complied with the urgent re quest that I made, but they are not come. They are cowardlv, it is said-they are cowardly. And who is it that says this ? You, Monsieur Turchy de Marcellange-you who are courageous. You have had the good, or rather the ill, fortune, for it will cost you dear one day, to cause your hatred to pass into the conviction of an honest man M. Bac , full of talent and ardour. He is a man of feeling. He saw you weep, and wept with you, and when he weeps he is unable to detect the guile which is con cealed by the tears of another. Having succeeded with him, you charged him with a terrible mission, and, as his convictions are profound, he has performed it in a terrific manner. He has crushed these unfortunate women with all the weight of his eloquence. I have read the speech which he made at Riom. I bave heard his speech here, and I can appreciate the force of the calumnies which he has heaptd upon these ladies. And you think it is a difficult thing to calumniate, M. Trucby de Marcellange! If the ladies • f Chamblas were not Bimple and pious women if, wh u they heard of your calumnies, instead of falling on their knees before God to implore from him strength t' resist and pardon, they nad followed y u to the fit Id of calumny, do you think they would haio feunl it difficult to reach you? I have addressed grave reproaches to you, but there is a feeling for which I give ou credit. I am sure you regret the death of your rother, and that it has filled your mind with grief. I se • that you have fraternal piety. And yet, if the ladies of Chamblas bad been desirous of calumniating you, they migl t have done so thsy might have set up against you the most monstrous, the most calumniatory accusations. Do you know what they might have said to you? They might have said that the most strange and sinister presentiments agi tated you that you had almost fixed the date of the dea'li of your brother. I kuow that this would have been mon strous, for I bow before vour fraternal love.but lam desirous that you should be made to comprehend fully the extent t f evil, ot which calumny is capable, the evil you have com mitted and that which might have fallen upon you had you iu your turn been accused, and which calumny would have been the more terrible on account of your strange presen timents, you having fixed, ae it were, the period of your brother's death, with the fact added to all this, that at the time wh n you were speaking thus, a will bad been mad in your favour. I am willing to admit that all this would I am willing to acknowledge that you During the dtliber atom Of ti Jury gleet igitstom un veiled in court. The regietrer-eaHea ever the neerae Of t®? witnesses, who oeme in crowds to Isshi tho neyMBt el-lowed by ths lew for their etteudeuee. Most Of then, ■ soon as they had received their zeoaey, quitted toe oourt, apparently indifferent ae to whet might be to result 4 the deliberation of too jury At the end of en hour tho jury returned and, having taken their seat , th President said, Upon my honour and my conscience, in the pretence of God and men, C declaration oi the jury is on the first question- I to a cosed guilty of having, in ths evening of the let Septemb . 1840, committed voluntary homicide on th person oi M. de Marcellange in his chateau of Chamblas?-Yoe, by a majority on tho circumstance Ol premeditation nnd sur prise, Yes, by a majority. No declaration of extenuating circumstance war mad by the jury. M. Bac This is a sentence of death. Besson, who had heen removed from the court when the jury retired, was now brought in tgain. Ho wns exceed ingly pale, almost inanimate. Araac and Bernard, who had been removed with Beesen, were not brought beck. The verdict of the Jury wna now rend to the prisoner. Ho heard it without uttering a word. The Procureur-Generel called upon the court to pronounce sentence ol death, and to declare la the interest of society, by way of example, that the execution should take piece in the public square at Puy. The President Accused, have you anything to say as to the application of the punishment? Beeson was silent, but held down his head, and wept. M. Lachaud was at this time absent trom the court, Whilst the judges were in their council-room deliberating on the sentence, every eye was fixed on Beeson. He re mained without movement, his head resting on bio left hand. He appeared to be suffering great mental agony. The judges having returned, the exaddri pro-found 8ileuee, pronounced sentence of death, oroennff the prisoner to be executed on the public £ , . P Whilst all this sad formality was the mattress-maker, appeared to to a otopor. U scarcely heard the President when he ordered the sumii fonce under which he had been placed to cease, and that he should be set at liberty. u , fhj Besson was removed by the gendarmee. He was at tb time in such a state that he ar J rlttokS reaching a waiting-room to which prisoners are nret ween when they are removed from the court, he gain a little courage. He struck his forehead W wfth his right hand, and said For all that, the whole ot what mv counsel said was the truth. . A Lyons letter of the 28th states, 'hat Beeeo notice of his intention to appeal to the Court O' v.aareiwu against his sentence. ASYLUM FOR FEMALE ORPHANS. To the EDITOR or the MORNING CHRONICLE. Sir-Thera are eleven candidates for the vacant morning preachership to this institution. The right of election lie in the governor , who, fortunately for the interests of the charity, constitute a numerous body. Ten of the reverend gentlemen who aspire to the preachership have made the canvass which has taksn place on all former occasions o a vacancy in this office. The eleventh clergyman has offered to serve gratuitously, so long as he may be unbeneficed provided the governors will spare him the trouble and ex pense of soliciting their votes in his own person, or through his friends. This offer has been blazoned to the world In the columns of ths John Bull newspaper. I, therefore, as one of the fjj justified in making my comments upon it. The writer rays. Nor, perhaps, should we have even alluded to the subject, but for the desire eventually to serve this excellent as well as to render 4 the honour due to one ot thoifi clergy men. more particularly since we have been credibly in formed that, though without any professional emolument, or private fortune beyond what is absolutely necessary tor a comfortable subsistence, he has, in the handsomest man ner, spontaneously offered to the aeylum his gratuitoui services, ho long as he shall continue nnbene-ficed. We have already stated the condition. Now, sir, it appears to me, that no honour u duo to the reverend gentleman for this propoeition, and tnat lt is the very reverse ot handsome. First, it is unfair towards his reverend brethren, the ten other candidates. They must necessarily in j?reat part belong to a class ot tne clergy, many oi whom have not that private tortune neces sary for a comfortable subsistence, and, therefore, though at least as disinterested es this gentleman, as zealous in their ministry, and ae anxious to do good to the poor, could not afford to labour without the hire which has been appointed for the office they solicit, by the governors ot a well-managed charitable institution. Thus, though amongst them there might be in every respect more eligible can didates, if this very suspicion liberalitv upon the part of one whose time is unemployed, and whose comfort able subsistence is assured-were to be permitted, they would be all driven from the field. Nor, in point of fact, can I see any more liberality or gentlemanly conduct ana feeling in this handsome offer than if, in my own pro fession, I were spontaneously to offer my gratuitous ser vices to a public company in a suit at law. If I aia so, however I might-and however sincerely I might-allege my belief in the excellence of the company, I sbou a re ceive no credit for disinterestedness, and no gentleman would be disposed to honour me, either in private so ciety, or in public, through the columns of a news-paper. My object would be held to be clear enough. This fellow, it would be said, is without anv professional emoluments, but he wants to get them and in order to ao so, he is resorting to dishonourable means. Now let us look at this unemployed clergyman's case, and see It it differs materially from that I have put with reference to a briefless barrister. He is willing, so long ae he shall remain unbeneficed, to give his gratuitous services preacher to a charity, which his advocate in the Jcau Buie informs us is under the immediate patronage of the Aren-bishop of Canterbury!!-the Duke aud Duehess of Lam-bridge being the president and patroness. It is also snp-ported by several ladies ot distinction as vi patronewea while among the vice-presidents are Sir E. PeeK - Lord Lyndhurst!!! the Bishop of Winchester! the Bishop of Lincoln! Lord Bexley, Ac.Icc. Now, eir, ' ' me sk. is there a clerical office in London in which a man of abinty would be more likely to preach himself into a beE '™' than this preachership to an institution, which numbers amongst it presidents and governors those in whossi hana is so very large a portion of church patronage . And is t e offer upon the part of an unemployed clergyman, wltn means of comfortable subsistence, to serve gratuitously the effort to procure professional advancement and rewara, so disinterested and so very honourable to him as it has been described by his panegyrist in the John Bull 7 Cue more question. If a cadetship in the Honourable brat India Company's service be worth £100, how much woul this pieacherahip be worth to one properly qualified to ie-charge its duties ? I am, sir, your obedient servant, A BRIEFLES8 BARRISTER. Temple, January 1, 1843. To thr EDITOR op thr MORNING CHRONICLE. Sir-On seeing a paragraph in the Saunderss News Letter of this morning, copied from your paper, and signea an Irish Amateur, in which my name is mentionea, I lose not a moment in begging that you will be kina enough to correct one error which gives me much uneasi ness, wherein it! states that the committee for erecting the column in Trafalgar-square obtained a copy ot the statue by Kirk, in Sackville-etreet, to serve as a model ot their figure. Your correspondent must havs been misln-formtd, as I never knew or heard of such an occurrence. By your giving this an insertion in your valuable paper you will greatly oblige, sir, vour very bumble servant, 3 6 THOMAS KIRK, Sculptor. 21, Jervis-street, J0ublin December29,1842. Central Criminal Court.- This morning, fit ten o'clock, this session commences in the Justice-haU, Old Bailey, being the ninety-ninth, and the third of the present mayoralty. Considering tbe short interval since ' ation ol the last session the calendar is numeri-ienal charao-your have been infamous. are incapable of assassination from interest but why do you think the ladies of Chamblas were more capable of it than yourself ? Learn, M. Trucby de Marcellange, that the calumny of which you are guilty may be turned against yourself. Ths ladies of Chamblas are pious women, and they must have been so to submit without recrimination to the disgraceful position in which you wished to place them. These poor women must have been full of mercy not to have thought of turning upon you the weapon which you bave so cruelly employed against them. M. Lachaud now adverted to the evidence which had been given as to the appearance of a mysterious stranger in the neighbourhood of Chamblas six days previously to tbe murder, for the purpose of showing that, as for as suspicion want, it was reasonable to suspect this person of the crime which was attributed to Besson. Al luding to an observation that had been made on tbe other side, of his having spoken favourably of Araac, he raid I have not said that I admired his character, his senti ments, his acts but what I have admired is the foie , tbe energy of his nature, derived from a solitary life in the midst of rocks, ths elevation of mind and intelligence The Procureur-General Permit me, M. Lachaud, to observe that public morality is in danger from such obser. various. M. Lachaud Be not alarmed, sir. I am not of the school which deifies crime. I am not one of those who pardon everything in greatness, of whatever kind. I do not bow before great criminals. The learned gentleman concluded his powerful address by saying to the juryI pray God.at this supreme moment, to inspire you with a conviction of the innocence of the un happy man nt the bar, in order that you may restore him to his family, and to the brother, who is now behind me, and who is come for him from his native mountains. I have done rations. ' H. v Laciieud, who w evidently still suffering severely from indisposition, now rat down in E state of exhaustion. During the whole of the speech of M. Lachaud, Attic, Bernard, and B4rard, listened with the most profound at-tention. Arsaewas especially attentive. At the different phot's of the arguments ho frequently 11 d and oera-lionally nodded approbation. Hie eye wa brilliant, and hi countenance was at timet full of emotion and intolilgonoe, The President Beeson, hav you anything to add m jour defenos? Besson rose, and advancing towards the President, re plied in a firm voice, No, M. Is President. The President then summed up the evidence on Dot® ■idee, leaving out all that had no direct bearing on the ao-c ligation , At one o'clock the jury withdrew to deliberate on their verdict. . . , The questions put to them by the court were as follow Is Jacques Besson guilty of having, on the night of the let September, 1840, committed with premeditation and sur prise, voluntary homicide on theperson of Iaiuis Viuehardm de Marcellange ? Is Jacques Besson guilty of having, by gifts, machinations, or promises, excited the author or authors of the said murder to commit it, and has be thus rendered himself a accomplice ? I the termination domestic servants, and from the person. Beyond the num ber committed down to Saturday, there are several under a course of examination at the various police eeurte, some ot whom are charged with murder and other heinous crimes. There are also a variety of misdemeanors, which were tra versed from the late sessions, so that the court will probably be occupied the entire week. The judges on the rota are Mr. Baron Gurney, Mr. Justice Erakine, an'd Mr. Justice Wightman. The late Fire in Goodman's-fields.-The adjourned meeting of the inhabitants was held on Friday evening in the spacious room of the Swan Tavern, Mansell-street, fit seven o'clock, tbe Rev. Mr. Champneys in th chair. Messrs. Cook, th treasurer and secretary for tba relief of the unfortunate sufferers, stated that the total amount of subscriptions up to that time was £351 4s. 5d., of which there had been £274 3s. already awarded. Alter passing various resolutions, to be advertised in the publio papers, and a vote of thanks to the treasurer, secretary, and the worthy chairman, tor their strenuous efforts on bo-half of the sufferers, the meeting, which was both nume rous and respectable, separated. Explosion of Gab.-On Saturday night, shortly after seven o'clock, an alarming explosion of gas took place at the Travellers' Club, in Pall-mall. The explosion sounded as if from the discharge of a piece of ordnance. It was soon discovered that the gas-pipes which run along the ceiling of the billiard-room on the second floor had burst, and the gas igniting had exploded, and tore away a great portion of the oeiling. The fire-engines were in at tendance very shortly, but fortunately their services were not required, for no fire could be discovered. The damage is estimated at about £100. Burglary.-Extbneivr Robbery of Plate and Jewellery.-Information reached the head police-offiee, Great Sootland-yard, yesterday, of the following ex tensive burglary -At an early hour on the previous morn ing the dwelling-house of Messrs. James and John 8mi b, knowu as Monkton Farm, situate in the parish of Brough ton Gifford, in the county of lYilts, was feloniously broken into and entered by four persons. A variety of thing were stole , chiefly consisting of gold and silver articles, amount ing to a very great sum of mousy. The whole of the offen ders are fit present unknown, but to aid in their ppro henslon a reward of £30 is offered. On the news reaching London, one of the officers of the detective force wee In stantly despatched to the neighbourhood whew the robbert was committed, to make lnqulriss, and to endeavour to d e tect the guilty partie . _ , Death from Tight Lading.-On Tuotdey t 20th, an inquest we held by Mr. Cains, fit th virarago house, Combo 8t. Nicholas, near Chard, on ths body of Jen Fowler, a young woman of about 19 year of age. to service oi th# ffiv. F. L. Moynv. It operand in rrideno that th deceased had lately wx n to Ifietog bereolf WT tightly, and had oven required aeeietaae of nor WltoJ servant to dress henolf tightly. On Thuredav evratag wes token ill, but notUng soriou Friday morning when she had dressed henolf, eheweemuoR worse, and before a surgeon could arrive she wosaoorpjo. From an examination of the body.there appa od -inquest to bave been an internal hemorthfig wUeh nra caused death, and a verdict was returned aooordiogiy. ,r BoiL m ExPL08ION. - On Thursday, 1 explMfon took plaite at the petrel town. Tho o'clock,an explosion took place Mine torvot Messrs. Webster, at DopH®' blmr up 4 tn boiler, which was a very L Sfofthe apart meat fn mendous crash, carrying .7 .1 aerisue damage to ato y toTwo o , ~ivtti alight fojurfe. -County Herald I
898, THE EXAMINER, fifty. What Gangaijelli said of the Jesuits may he well applied to these ijien when once they arc done away, religion will reform of itself. The .learned l r. Middleton, Librarian of the University of Cam bridge, who was abused in his day for being too rea sonable a Christian, has made so complete a prophecy of the present dangers of the Church, and minted put so exactly this necessity of enlarging the pale .of ortho doxy, that I may be well excused for , incorporat ing his words with these Essays. These contro versies, I flatter myself, says, tjie Doctor, may still be seasonable and serviceable, towards check ing that spirit of disaffe-tion which in every part of the kingdom is visibly exerting itself against the Established Religion, by all the various arts which Popery, Methodism, and infidelity can supply the growth of all.which has of late years been greatly complained of by the Clergy. Tor as this increasing evil is owing partly to certain articles, pubiicly pro fessed .and imposed by our Church, which are justly liable to exception and partly, jo groundless pre judices, and false notions of religion in general, con ceived by the weak, and confirmed in them by the crafty so it cannot possibly be cured by any other method, than by placing the Conquon Rpligipu pi Christians on its right foundation, the Gtispej, and clearing our particular system of it from ajl just offence, and reducing it to its original simplicity and conformity with the natural law or reason of man 'which, in all questions whatsoever, is the primary guide and ultimate test of right and wrong, truth and falsehood, to the whpie huiy.an species. . 4 ' ' f fc • Tf the studious and ipquisitivq part of the nation, who search aiid judge of things for themselves, were made easy oil these points, and allowed to think and speak of the popular doctrines of the Church, what ' they find agreeable to fact and the testimony of their senses, if would be the most effectual means of silenc ing those uncharitable disputes ap'd dissections, which are so frequent among us, on subjects generally so trilling, as to be unworthy of the. zeal or attention of a Christian, or so subtle and abstruse, as to be incotn-' prehensible to all, and unfit therefore to lie the ob jects of faith to any. The arbitrary imposition of opinions naturally creates a reluctance to the recep tion of them and as in the cptljskin of. bodies, so of minds, the 'repelling force is equal t o that which im-pells hut if opinions were proposed 0 the public, with a latitude of interpretation, which left every one at liberty to.receive them according to his own sense, and to embrace there either as true, or to acquiesce.in them as expedient it would cut off both the pretence and the inclination to .wrangle about them and we should enjoy them with, the same ease as we d° the common air or water, take just as much of them as wp please, without offence or injury to any one else, liy this means the virtuous and the liberal would be come united in affection as well as opinion, and live not only with more charity towards each other, hut by their example and moderation, would lead the multitude also by degrees into mere reasonable no tions of religions duties so far at least, as jo prevent them from being seduced iutp apy extravagance of zeal and principles, either Popish or Fanatical, which might create danger and disturbance to the peace of the kingdom. 3. Much might be effected against the increasing influence of the Methodists by rivalling their unit zeal i but in the present state of the Church tenets sucli'an activity is not to he expected. Ido bclieie it impossible for the great majority of the Established Church to insist with any vehemence upon the belief in abstruse and useless mysteriesand if they did, they would he doing wrong. Make them easy upon the most difficult points, and theywill feel more satisfac tion in being earnest. There might still remain a mimlicr of indolent anil indifferent men who would take no pleasure in expounding what they would never take pains to understand hut there is no csta-blishment into which such men will not intrude, and it would he enough if the spirit of inquiry and general collision of mind, which would follow a refonnatino of the Church, should keep these persons out of the way of publicity and preferment. The present luke warmness of the Established Preachers is a fertile and ■very natural topic of-rebuke with the Methodists, who know how t# draw their advantages from contrast, for the space of eight years, during Which t was at a public school, I recollect perfectly well that I saw two preachers every Sunday, hut as to hearing th'cm, I cannot speak with any exactness at this distance of time. I do not think either, that I ever heard one of the Bishops preach except the late Dr. Horsley, but then 1 must do myself the justice to say that I have been present at several of their discourses, which must have been highly edifying to the clerk, it is due however to the celebrated Dr Parr kb declare, that when he preached his last Spital Sermon, l heard him in the aggregate for a whole hour,.which 1 conjecture was about half the time in which be favoured hr aldermen with his opinions on charity. It must Lv confessed that the delivery of those gentlemen is not calculated to make very vivacious impressions on the general mind. I say little of that host of poor Curates, who have really so much to do that they cannot exert themselves to any effect, or of those nests of luxurious dignitaries who-are worse, than inefficient, Ilocalise they do nothing. Many of the misfortunes of-the Church are to he found out of it j foolish parents w ho worship the gentility of a religious profession, ami corrupt pa trons who worship no religion at all, produce the two Church extremes of poverty and luxury 'and nothing hut the universal freedom of inquiry will annihilate the slavery and oppression that degrade and defeat the strongest talents. When -the C-lergy ba'C a greater respect for their own consciences -fcliey will have a greater respect for tlie proper exercise of there pro fession and wc shall see less of those indifferent readers those racers and chasers through the Litany i those stop-watch sermenizers who dispense tin.- Grace of God as if they were bidding you-good morning those preachers in short whether feeble or fantastic, who pick their teeth ? as it -wore, in God's presence, ridiculous when they are not heard and useless when they are. 1 myself was witness, in a village north o the town, to a most disgusting instance of this cow-Miscellaneous Varks, vol, ii. 25
Sept. 13, 1 squadrons or d at a certain that time an t and activity, long they were ey were able to vith the aid of they could see ds, and of what t or with ear igh as those of . and an exact of times a day, em, and of the the length of a mber of turns y, and the time of the different h the points in are ships that are and i ordered a fox ost wholly dis-l only for sport, I to protection to others but ntleinanly feel-ible to say what resent in plan ts in Norfolk are that there are in leaves a balance ■ns, roads, plan-may be in wood nt of statistics ve 128,156 acres at with a popu-And now let preservation of abourer, as in hatever benefit de in corn, it tural labourer, corn his wages could be ren-lose by the ie-1845. the examiner. 579 a ,-tion in price, the labourer would then be benefited, This can onlv be the case when the produce is greater than , without any extra expense being incurred by the fanner in raising it. We have a satisfactory proof of this in j t ,,r's harvest, which was so unusually abundant. Corn year's harvest, which was so unusually abundant. Corn n fallen in price, so that the labourer has paid sixpence and ninepence a stone for his flour less than he has done within these last four or five years, and yet his wages have been lowered in consequence. And why so ? Because ,i,e Quantity of produce was so much greater than usual lue j r e ,1.. Mw nnw. as the not that the farmer does not complain of the low price, as the Quantity has compensated him for it, he having been at no extra expense in raising it. Here, then, we come to the point, f have estimated the loss of the farmers in this county alone by the game and vermin to amount to 303,7M per annum. Does it not at once show that, could this loss be prevented, the farmer would raise a greater cropland .hat, without injury to him, the price of corn would be lowered for the benefit of the agricultural labourer? I have also asserted that this preservation of game prevents his finding sufficient employment. It is clear that if the Quantity of land at present in tillage is not sufficient, that if more land was under the plough, the agricultural labourer would obtain that employment which he requires. How far I am correct in assuming that we have 128,156 acres of land in plantation and wood in this county, it is impossible for me to say but I can only point out that at four men to the one hundred acres, it would, if in tillage, give employ ment and support to more than five thousand families. I trust you will admit that I have made out a strong case that is, provided that I am not much out in the approxima tions I have been compelled to resort to in making my cal culations. As to the extent of injury done by the game and vermin, on that point I am certain that I am correct. Legislators talk of taking the waste lands into cultivation. Jt appears to me that the preserves are the waste lands. And now then, let us examine into the objections which would be raised. The first observation would be, that you would destroy all the game in the county. I deny it that there would not be so much game of all kinds for sale in the markets is certain. You would have more partrid Hs and fewer phea sants, for partridges can and do thrive where there are no plantations and although there would no longer be long accounts in the newspapers of battues in which 1,000 of pheasantsand hares have been destroyed in one day's shoot ing, there would still be quite enough for sport, although not for slaughter and sale. The price of game would rise, but that would be of little consequence those who will give 10s. a quart for green peas would not suffer much by paying a little dearer for their second course. It will be said that the lands which have been planted are bad lands, unfit for tillage. This is not always the case, indeed very often the contrary but admitting that they were bad land at the time of their being planted, it is well known that after thirty years the deposition of new soil from the decayed vegetable matter will make the worst land good and fit for tillage in deed, planting is the most effectual method of recovering bad land. Some will assert that we shall have no timber left in the country. This is an idle fear. The destruction of the plantations and preserves does not necessitate the destruction of the timber, which, if fine, may always be lelt sufficient for a growing crop, and in such case they will re main as pasture lands, and as such will yield both profit and employment. It may be objected that gentlemen will no longer go down to their estates in the shooting months. Why they should not, if they are fond of the sport, I can not see as surely the shooting in former times was much more rational than the absurd battues of the present day, when it cannot be an amusement. I may here observe that I have often heard it asserted as very advantageous to the country that the landlords should visit their estates, but I must say that, although some advantage may be de rived by the butchers, bakers, and shopkeepers, none what ever accrues to the agricultural population. Is one poor man more employed in consequence of the landlord's coming down to his estate ? Certainly not it is to the farmer, and the farmer alone, that the labourer looks for employ ment. I have often thought, if measures were taken so as to make the preservation of game to its present extent too onerous for the landlords and give them a fair excuse for returning a large portion of their plantations into till age, that although they might cry out, in their hearts they would be very glad if such measures were taken. Their pride will not allow them to take such steps at present but give them an excuse, and but too many would gladly avail themselves of such opportunity of getting rid of the expense of keepers, c., and, at the same time, adding hundreds, and even thousands, to their incomes by returning their useless and expensive lands to tillage, and receiving rent for them. And how is this to be done ? At present covers and plantations are only assessed when they are felled but if all untilled lands and preserves were assessed at a higher rate than those which are tilled, the effect would be, that if the plantations were still preserved, the tenants and farmers would receive great relief in the payment of rates of every description, or else the lands would be restored to tillage and what with the increased demand for employment in consequence, and the increased produce of the land from the diminution of the game, the agricultural labourer would obtain that relief which everybody admits that he requires, but no one appears to know how to administer. I have in these letters adhered strictly to the cause of the agricultural labourer. I might have entered much more fully into the merits of the case if I had explained many matters between landlord and tenant, of which you appear wholly unacquainted but if what I have already advanced obtains no consideration, it is useless my entering more fully mto the subject. For the present, then, I remain, Yours, c., A Norfolk Farmer. LANDLORDS AND GAME. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Wardour Castle, Sept. 10th, 1845. Sir, Having this moment seen in your paper of the 6th inst. a letter, headed The Agricultural Labourer, ad dressed to Sir Robert Peel, and signed A Norfolk armer, I trust to the motto which the Examiner ' bears find me space for this reply. Though the letter to which allude gives a flat contradiction to many of the ridiculous assertions put forth by the anti-Game-Law men, yet still t iere is so much fallacy in it on some points, combined with an assumed importance by the position in which it appears, that, spite of its anonymous character, it deserves notice. I I he N orfolk t armer states most erroneously that the landlords assert that they must sell their game to put down poaching. Now the landlords, as a body, have never asserted any such thing. As a body, they were strenuously opposed to the sale of game, ever denied that its sale would have any beneficial effect in decreasing the crime, and at this hour they would gladly exchange the power of sale to get back again the old protective qualification in regard to the right to kill. It was the anti-Game-Law men who forced the private property in game upon the landlords and the public and there is not the shadow of fairness, there fore, in blaming the game-preserver for making use of a miserable right, thrust upon him for losses which he deemed and still deems irreparable. It was the anti-Game-Law man that told the landed proprietor, that when game was made an article of general consumption and sale, the poacher would be driven from the market. The proprietor replied, that the sale of game would increase the crime sevenfold, and it has done The public right to the game and wild animals on the farm is at present vested in the tenant the landlord is obliged to make a private covenant with his tenant to secure the privilege of the game to himself. If a tenant, then, is injured by game or wild animals, it is with his own consent, and by virtue of his sign manual, for the giving of which he stipulates that he shall sit at a reduced rent, to en able him to face the possible contingency. There is no hardship in this, and it is waste of time, as well as folly, for designing men to assert that there is any error in it what ever, Protecting game and the privacy of property solely by the Trespass Act will not do. To effect each of these objects the law must be made so much more stringent than it is at pre sent, that a dangerous and unconstitutional and summary interference with the liberty of the subject must be given and however much I may be attached to the sports of the field, against such an un-English state of tyrannical inter ference I would ever lift my voice. If private grounds were to be thrown open to the incursions of the idle and disor derly, by the removal of the laws for the protection of game, a stringent Trespass Act must talce the place of those laws which would be a hundredfold more unpopular, be produc tive of more frequent conflicts to the endangerment of life, than the present Game Laws while at the same time not one of the objections urged against the preservation of game would be removed. The supposition of 200 coalheavers, in their begrimed clothes, forcing themselves into the grounds where a fete was given, does not raise the example the Norfolk Farmer seems to desire for a body of men so misconducting them selves would be guilty of a riot, and at once be within the grasp of the policeman and the law. In this letter it is stated that the people argue thus game wanders about so much that it is impossible to know who bred the game, and therefore who is the rightful owner of it. I may be put into prison by Squire A for taking a hare which did not belong to him, although on his land at the time, as it was born and bred on the land of Squire B. Now, of all shallowillustrations that a writer ever put forth, this is the worst for the law having decided that the game is the property of the owner on whose land it is at the mo ment found, at all events the people thus made to argue, by the Norfolk Farmer, must know that at least the game is not theirs, and whichever way they get to gaol, they are rightly punished for stealing that about which there is no mistake, and as to which they have no sort of legal right or claim. The properly in a sheep does not depend upon who bred itand when this writer further urges that the people say, if game is property, why don't you take more care of your property, and not, by leaving it about, put temptation in a poor man's way? he seems, singularly enough, to forget that large flocks of sheep are necessarily left about at times as much as game, and that the laws for the protection of sheep are infinitely more severe than those for the care of game, and that it most assuredly is the spirit of all law to be more jealously severe in its provisions for the protection of property, precisely as, from the nature of that property, it is of necessity liable to be left in wild and easily accessible places. By this the charge of too great severity in the Game Laws is at once satisfactorily an swered. Your correspondent publishes the arguments he says are used on one side, without debating whether they are correct or not, and recommends a vast change in the law, founded on those arguments and on a clamour which he admits may be fallacious. Such counsel savours but little of education or reason. The making game private property, and legalizing its sale, was a very great error. The manifest inattention to the provisions for regulating its sale was a greater error and last of all, the establishment of a private property, and then not putting that private property on the same footing with all other private property, by surrendering it into a similar custody of police, was a crowning folly, which may well be regarded as the parent of much of the clamour now existing. Game is the only property not placed within the custody of the constable. Take the constable's care from any other species of property, and the inroads upon it would far outstrip the theft on game. The watch, the handker chief, the purse, the pocket-book, the sheep, the fowl, the fagot, and the potatoe, unprotected by the police, would send to our gaols and prisons criminals, far outnumbering those sent there by the game, in spite of the alleged incli nation in the heart of man to prey upon fur and feather. The Norfolk Farmer is an excellent aid against the army he himself desires to befriend in the field, and he at once points the danger of breaking in the ice. One step, and then another-the last the nearest to destruction. First, the right of the landlord to the wild animal is assailed, and then the right to plant h!s tree. The mischief is, that you cannot have pheasants without covers. You cannot have an English ship without the English oak. If you give up the tree you resign the vessel if you yield the claim to the game you infringe the private rights of landed property, and you permit the restless man of change and innovation-the man that recommends an unwholesome concession to crime-to put in a wedge to split the wall as well of the poor man's cottage as of the rich man's palace PRACTICAL CHURCH REFORMS No. IV.- The Universities. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Sir,-Were it the case now as it was in the olden time t hat learning was confined to Clerks almost exclusively' there would appear to be some reason for looking upon the Universities as nursery gardens in particular for the Church but since the general diffusion of know ledge amongst all classes, such a reason no longer holds good. But it is not my present object to enter upon the question of the Universities at large, but simply to regard them as places for the especial training of the Clergy. I should be sorry to set down aught in malice of the Universities, or any other assemblages of my fellow-men but really it is too much when we are generally told, as we sometimes are in Parliament when the privileges, or, as some would call them, the abuses of the Universities ar brought into question-that they are the nursing places of the Church, and therefore procul este profani! The an swer is farcical. It is my happiness to have known many estimable men at the Universities, and everybody knows that men of the very highest attainments have taken their de grees there but what has this to do with their being effec tive places for training the Clergy ? Why, I only state what everybody is aware of who has had any experience at the Universities, that those men who came up to College in my time, with a view to orders, owed their fitness for them, not in consequence of, but in spite of the system they found there that the good remained good and that the unfit, instead of being made better as under a proper discipline they might have been, or else been prevented from pro ceeding further , were only made ten times more the children of hell than they were before. Their University career was looked upon by them as a time for making play whilst they could, knowing that soon they would be obliged to pull in for the rest of their lives on the principle, with some modification, of Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die -let us take our swing now, for in a few years we must be dead to it all! Now, shocking as it is, I declare that I have myself heard something of the kind pleaded as an excuse for temporary indulgence at the Universities by one who is now moreover a most active clergyman! And the system tacitly permits such to take their swing and, consequently, has ruined many a man altogether, in ex ternal circumstances as well as in soul. That colleges, ori ginally founded for poor scholars, should be so defective in discipline as to produce such enormous evils, is a na tional crime and that, at the same time, they should be called alma maters of this branch of the Christian Church is so egregiously ridiculous as to be absolutely incredible, did we not know what people will say and think when they have been accustomed to it. It was only last session that the cold and staid Pre mier-he who so seldom finds out an abuse, or at any rate notices it, unless it is forced upon him-gave it as his opinion that the discipline of our Universities was far from being what it ought to be. He said this with out any reference to their being the training places for the Clergy, but as general institutions for education but if the remark be true of them as such, how much more ap plicable is it to them as nurseries for the Churchy In one sense, indeed, they are nurseries for the Church because Bishops have, with a few exceptions, required an University degree as a qualification for orders, and therefore Clergymen are obliged to go to College and the Universities and the Church become inseparably connected in our minds. And if the system of our Colleges were as it used to be, or as it ought to be if the easy-living Fellows were compelled to be hard-working Tutors, in the true sense of the word not only teachers, but moral guardians and companions of the youth committed to their care and if such discipline were enforced to compel regularity, and all unnecessary expenses not only curtailed but prevented all which things might be done then the qualification of an University degree might safely and wisely be re quired for orders. But even then something else should be demanded of those who are looking forward to the Mi nistry than a mere University degree-some proof of their fitness for orders and that the present system of Testi-. monials, whether from Colleges or individual Clergymen, does not meet this want, is manifest from the numerous cases of clerical delinquency which are constantly occur ring. I will resume this subject, with your permission, on a future occasion. And remain Your most obedient servant, Persona. in fact, you permit him to assault the vaunted blessings of the Englishman's Castle. I remain, your most obedient, Grantley F. Berkeley. RAILWAYS. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER, Sir,-If the late rather numerous railway accidents have had the bad effect of causing much sorrow, alarm, and anxiety, they have also set the minds of men at work to discover methods for obviating the like disasters in future and many have been the ingenious suggestions given to the public through the ' Examiner.' I have thought much upon that class of accidents which has arisen from the engine running off the rails and it appears to me that this might in all cases be prevented by a slight additional expense in the construction of locomotives, the nature of which I will endeavour to explain, in the hope that, through the medium of your columns, it may meet the eye of some practical man, and so prove of benefit to the public. I propose that a sub stantial double rail be laid down midway between the pre sent rails, somewhat higher in the middle than the other rails, and flanged as I believe it is called on each side in a slanting direction, in such a manner that a wheel might run on each side of it inclined outwards at about 45 degrees. Also, that the axes of these wheels be firmly fixed to the fore part of the engine. It appears to me that such a con struction would infallibly keep the engine on the line, and thus obviate those fearful accidents which oftentimes result solely from the cause we are considering. The same mode of construction might for further security be applied to the carriages as w'ell as the engine. I know not whether I have succeeded in making myself understood, which it is oftentimes difficult to do in these matters without the aid of diagrams but I enclose my address in case any of your readers should consider the suggestion worthy of further thought. It may very probably have before occurred to some one, or may even have been made public, but I am not aware of such having been the case. IA0MHX. VERY SIMPLE, BUT INGENIOUS. The Times has the following-The model of a very simple but ingenious contrivance, for the purpose of enabling the guards of a tram to i
tyi.nr.crq Loaf p pi ih 12 Ha v Ditto l 1-Milt 3i 3i4 lhaf. r rtb. '•blwl nn-'l Cue it , i riKii'ix t'?3. AEUliDKKN. o ! Oil to Oil j ti !.-r 12 i to !1i j , , , f wr n. 5 to 7'i j he. • -, ■at ' 0 1 to 6 On j allow 10 . 6 1 to ID fi 4d t 8 t H y 9 to 10 5 t t. fti j !l 'V Huat the North. Lot J. To coi.v.ist of tliat PARK of LAND in the common Shoals, possessed by Robert Milne, surrounded by a low leal dyke, consisting of about two Acres in ex tent, having u diuh dividing it from John Clark's Lands at the South, tlie_ road leading from Mathewmill to the Shore at the North,'John Macamly's Lands on the East, and Alexander Hay's at the West, together with the Leen or Par.tUiC Lands as particularly meitlied and marched, ly ingto the eastward ami westward thereof. Lot 4. Tomnsist of t! at RANK-FACE in the Brae of iiarmouth. possessed by Alexander Duncan, Wood Merchant there, consisting of about three quarters of an Acre, bounded by John Macar.dy's Bank at the West, John Urnnucr's at the East, the top of the Brae at. the South, p.nd the Ditch or Stank at the Bvaefoct at the North, together with a part of a Bank lying to the East ward thereof, having John Breninct'a at the Went, and that belonging to the heirs of James Duncan, at the South-East. Lot Cl, To consist of those TWO IIIGG3 in the Sandy Field puss sued by the Heirs of Donald Buie, consisting of about Two Acres, bounded by the Lands of John MViudy at the South, and those pertaining to Win. Win-bestir and tlie heirs of Chaibs Burgess, respectively, at the North, extending from the Long- Lands Road at the East, to the Lauds f Mathewmill at the West, together with Two Riggs of Ends adjoining the foresaid Two R' gs above described at the Noun, and towards the West End thereof. Lc fl. To consist of those FOUR RIGGS in the Sandy Field in the possession of Mr James Steinson, consisting of about five Acres, having William Thomson's Land at the North, and the heirs of James Duncan at the South, extending from tlie Long Lands Road at the East to the Lands ol'Mnthcwiv.iU at the West. Lot 7. To consist of those FOUR RIGGS in the L'rosshill, consisting of about two and a half Acres, pox-SLssed by Alexander Duncan, Wood Merchant, extend ing over the Hill in a curved line from tlie Road leading past Mathewmill to the town of Gar mouth at tlie South, to the Cadger Road at the West, ai d bounded by Alex, under Ilay and William Winchester's Lands at the f.K M. j sty was yet Prnce iM V. Tcs. ihis lady will j North, and John Mncandy's at the South, hr vfc to nominate her six maids, who will be young j Lot o. To consist of that BUTT in the CROSSHILL irtuics cf respectable families, and their duty will be about a quarter of an Acre, possessed by tht said Alex, to priced the procession, slewing the wav with ! R Ciin . extending from the Iloud Ieadin B past Mathew. ' ijawerj. ' null to the town oi iarmouth, at the South, gout , cir-i cuitonsly over the Hill toward the Cadger Hoad at the W t, haviug William V inchestor'i Lands at the East its a from Glasgow to the Star Ion, Edinburgh, r,u the 6til of February-to which tit prisoner plead, d Not Guilty. Tills trial occupied the Court till -.i o'clock in the evening, when tlie Jury returned an unanimous verdict of Guilty, and the prisoner was sentenced to 1-1 years' transportation. Wl ile the Constitutional Association, says the Ar te v Times, is threatened with new attacks by thoise for,nut-ubU gentlemen, young Mr Whitbread, and Mr L -Slieritl Parkins, it lias tlie satisiactiou of receiving most solid testimonies of aj j latise friun pel son of tlie high, est rank and resi ctabi!ity. Lord Viscount Pow ers-court lias made a remittance of no less than £'300 to the funds of the society ! This munificent donation was accompanied with a letter, still mor gratifying, if possible, to tlie committee, whosq undertaking if Lordship justly designates as a Christian, loyal, constitutional work, Being a native says this nobleman, of another part of ills Majesty's don i li on , where it is my intention always to live, 1 should not perl'.aps have sent a subscription to your Associa tion, were it not, that at this time it appears to me, that every lover of his God, iiis King, and his coun try, should stand boldly forward to stem tins torrent ofc infidelity and disaiiectiun. PKEMATU11E INTE RMENT. Stephen Evans, a Welchman, one of the hands- of tile Harriot, of Milford, lying at Wexford, was bu l ied iu Selskar Church-yard, at one o'clock in the af ternoon of Thursday se'ennight. Ho was supposed to-have died on the Tuesday preceding. On Friday two boys climbed tlie wall of the Churdi-yard for the pur pose of robbing a biruVtiest. One of them stood ou tlie grat a in which Evans was interred, and while the other was ascending for the ne t, called out to him that he heard' a strange noise in the grave, on which they immediately gave the alarm. An immeus - con course of people soon collected, and the body was dug up, when a spectacle truly horrible presented itae'f the functions of life had been restored iu the Collin, but were only restored that the miserable sufferer might experience all tint horrors of a linf ring death in thi most dreadful situation. The struggles of tbu unhappy victim appeared to have been violent. By a late act of the Senate cf New York, habitual drunkards may be proceeded against, the manage, inent of their estates taken from them, am! they placed under the direction of tlie Court of Chancery, as m cases of lunacy. The Report cf the Committee of the House of Com mons on the state of London Bridge, recommends an application being made next session for a new Bridge to bo erected, of five arches, on the present site, or a. near to it as possible. The expence, they consider, may lie defrayed without any toii, the Bridge Iloase Estates having £112,000 in hand, besides a rental of £'2o,C00 per annum. Another Tragedy has been received from Lord Byron. hlllU H TUX, Jixk SO. 1st Outs. 2d do.' P trtii, do. . . .ar i LUit.., , iV. John Mofiai . u Colin Fowler, do. A! x. Topp R.iii Villiam Kwt.el, do. E.vgu-h CiitAMJiait. Ladies. Mi • 3d uo. ' ■ , j -N..-p ,T.-,h,,-ton, N.-u si .Susan 1'c.iLr tud .ui lirown, Kh'.iti -Miss 'c Auderson, do. George C i'y .r, do. M'.'ili.- ij p.oatot, do. ful C w Ktat.n. there wore mar whom the Marys! .tes would have been happy to hav. stowed some vr ark t f t ..t U' hurt the l,mni r of priru iidir.hu'd of it. On the with the tTmi.es SLAUGHTER OF THE KING'S STAG-HOUNDS. Tlie King'9 stag-hounds were lately brought hither for tlie purpose cf washing them in tlie sea. Since their arrival they have been almost daily immersed in the brine of ocean, and on account of growing syn toms of hydrophobia, w ere often kept in the water un til they were nearly exhausted, to rentier the remedy effective. But all would not do--the evil apprehend ed a few days ago began so unequivocally to shew it self, that it became dangerous to enter the kennel The matter, of course, was duly reported, and an or der, in consequence, arrived from the Marquis of Cornwallis, the Master of the Stag-liounds, for whole of the pack here to be destroyed without further delay, winch order was carried into instantaneous ef fect, and four-and-twenty coupla of the most va'ualJe and best-trainod dogs, were presently breathless.-They were dispatched hy the whippor-in and feeder. the huntsman, Sharp, could not witness tlie slaugh ter the voice of every slog was known to him-he could almost hold a conversation with them. The ifl-efiicacy of sea-water immersions, in easts of cani.a madness, is thus amply proved. brethren were du'iv I'KK'lt OF S per Cent. Ret . 76 f 3 per Cent. Co'.snls 7 jfi Do for Ace . Ilf per Cent -4 per Cents. 9-lJ ■S'! OI KS. 3 per Ceres 0 J Imlitt slock 23 India Bonds SO pin. Es. Biils 3 pm. B .nk Stock -FOREIGN TRADE. n , jfr .treasurer J.une. James Duna.d, -lubzi Tlie Report of the Select Committee of tlie House of Lords on tlie means of extending and securing the Foreign Trade of the Country, baa just been printed. Their attention has been directed to the Silk and M ine Trades. With respect to tho latter, the Committee do not fee! themselves justified in recommending any ma terial alteration, until some disposition is evinced by tlie French Government to facilitate such an arrange ment, by making some oonccvion in favour of articles of British manufacture. They arid, however, that it may be worth considering, whether the substitution of a Duty ad talorcru, for that which is now taken by measure upon French Wines, would not lead to au in creased consumption, a.a! contribute, without detri ment to the Revenue, to the accommodation of the British consumer. In regard to the Silk Trade, tho Committee declare, that they arc upon the whole of opinion-That it would be highly det-imetital toarasrufoc-a.y ,' which l a so long enjoyed an ex.hi five protection. -r.it has bmn but lately brought to ar y great degree of . '• or iie ft-?ic.i abruptly to take off tl.e juo'.ibinor.a . duties upon fori u n or'Acs but considering the eocy to ir.. retard demand tv', ieh 'las for some time ma-nifeated itself in the home u r.iket, a vtiy small diminu. tioti of the duty upon the raw material might be expelled to produce consitlerable eflcct in giving an increased stea diness to tlie manulacture ar.d if tne circu On aiTtving, he was observed to pause ti fetv minutes, as if in expectation that tlie owner of house would come out in due form but finding nobody in atten-dence, ha walked in, placed himself in the corner suillf , ycari w t icn the foliowin w.iete he used to stand during tlie operation cf shoo- 1 ciectco! vi-r. ing and on the smith's coming in, he instantly made j JOHN THOMSON Fpfs'DFNT known his errand, by holding up tlie shoeless fool, j Hotit. Anu.tBrVt Sa-on after, tlie owner of fl.v horse having missed him, Robm J C9 ' n V' oirue u the smithy in tho course of Jus search, ana j AloxantLr Fowler W-iNin-cv J to his r.o small surprNo found the engaged in j stawtu-d putting on a slice !' Dumfries Courier. j Thomson,'' Thomas Leighton, Wilifoin Hall, j Fyf c William Fowler, ar.d William L. Heruy Tl o c ily maturity of Mr like that cf many s !lprs Alexander Craighead, ouicei and UuLcrt J sirlea on mid .u nnier-dHy ! On the favourable side of other great men, stnns partly to be accounted for hy j Will, champion. j , e c . nse , with respect fo the prime conceister, and tlie, ner, prep eluded the l'i TORr, .Tidy 5, If-'21. T!ic Annual General Meeting of tho Fumrir l-u -d-his attainment of the laitei rn his 25th yeas, ai'e Sorict'i oi Kin fare, of which 'the Ri ht II strong circumstances. Talking.-Thero is one mortal offence m women for which they have been, more than once, rated roundly by the satirists. All women, says one of j the Funds of the Society were found to Ik in u high , our malevolent old drai atist?, mve six senses that! flourishing condition. 'F!.ey then proceeded to the cioc-is seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, toucl.ing, and the tion of Oilicc-bearer for the ensuing year, when the last and feminine sense, the sense of spatMing. Wo ! foil the Haul of Kintoiu , hr. , condescended to become mien i Patron, was held here on the 2d inst. After entering d 30 young Members, and eoiitUing Half-year' fithe Funds of the Society Due-lands, particularly heavy. Heps have suffered much from the easterly winds. Potatoes are a considerable bv.'adth, and the plant full as forward as could be ex pected. Turnip sowing has been early this season, and the Swedes have been r.ome time above ground. All hope is relinquished of a good crop of fruit, except, perhaps, of later fruits. Cattle and sheep, fat or lean, abundant, and at very moderate prices with an ap pearance of a N ill farther reduction in price of all the necessaries of life. 10. To consist of tlrat il 81i£T YARD in the Tou t, of iarmouth, hounded by Mr fcitetnaon'sr Property at the North, J mc Carmichael's, at the East asd a Lane at the WtKt. For further particulars, application may be made to Mr Robert Bain, Write . Elgin, who will give direction for pointing out the Lots, and furnish a l necessary in formation as to Rents, the lidding of the Possessor , and tho Public and Parochial Burdens affecting the Lands or to John M'Andrew, Solicitor in Inverness, who will shew the Deeds in virtue of which tlie Property is offered for Sale. XEir STAMP OFFICE. lowing Members were elected, z. . XPei eu s circumstances of the country allowed it gradually to be token off', a small ruty only being left upon tlie'Organ sine, our marmftc-turc would have nothing to dread from the competition of French silks, even if permitted to bt iRtroduced upon a duty of irom 12 to If per cent, and a considerable aug mentation upon the export might at the same time be jea-sonubly expected. ft' it was found impracticable to make any f.p?edy re duction in the duty on raw silk, without the aubetitution . of another, it mfiphi d.serve consideration whether it J ways both ready and willing to speak. Women have d might not. with safety to the revenue, he transferred to ' the manufactured art'ule, by which all the inconvenience 'Wiping froni advknce of capital and the necessity of draw backs might be avoided. feel rather inclined to suspect, that the lords and mas- FRANCIS ABKL, President, ters of this goodly creation would not bo very well con- Geo. Low, V. P. tent to allow the laxt cf these senses to be the exclusive William Malcolm, tr m r Thcmas Ctuick nark, privilege cf their fair partner . So far indeed from John Smith, jun. Alov. Yv .tt, and Arthur Carrie, such a concession, that they have absolutely rnor.opo- jun. stewards John AnnanJ and Win. Smith, key-lized the power cf speaking par atcellenca to -the ex- I bearers James Abel and Janie. Stephen, assessors Ar-clubionghter fov pouring 1 by Peter Reid, Vintner in Kin tore, when a Ball com-forth a gay ten minutes rattle in the overflowing gaiety j monccd, which was kept up with mirth and courivia-of her youthful heart. While a man i talking stupid sense, you hear a woman uttering lively nonsense and the latter commodity is infinitely more estimable in our opinion. Theie arc very few men that know how to converse. You see many a man like AddL n, who cau draw on his banker for III,000, but who has not nine-pence in ready cash, to contribute as his share in conversation. Women, on the contrary, are nl-iSltsrfilaneous articles. jjfdca.-Mr Campbell, the missionary, whose for-5T-r wards into South Africa arc before the public, has I.'2f£ returned after another journey equally interesting. He j r. te l SCO miles from Cape Town, a greater - Gv.G any oilier traveller w hose good fortune it has tofcn to re ,. n. and considerably beyond Latakoo. lit has d. iovcr d several new and large towns. The populr-ti M omc of tho e amount to 10,000 or p Y.on# the people friendly and docile, pos-tsnir.y much skill in the manufacture of pottery, in nowfitin of iron, and other useful arts besides q in telligent as to know the value of, and vri h for, tiu in troduction cf better infermed artizaKs Tin y hav likewise desired ir.Urionaricft to l a sert e. .. Mr LufMngton, of the tr asnry,,' n rep.y to u letter from C. yt. Burreli, E j- M.P. itas sign i jhd ip.t far-'' vrj'l i.ot be prevented fr vr ti ui l ieable -a most graceful way of talking about nothing, which men, in their wisdom, esteem beneath their powers.-Tite French ladies are pre-eminent in this art and af ter them the Irish ladies bold the most distinguished place. It is absolutely Marvellous to lir.ten to two sisters, who hove been parted for three weeks-, edify ing each other with their mutual stores cf intelligence, of which their bt others would have disburdened them selves in one-tenth of the time. - X w Monthly Maga zine. Gold Coin.- m King James the 1st coined hi 22 shilling piece of gold, called Jacubusscs, where, on his head, he wore a Crewn after that, lie coined his twenty sftillinf.s, and were the laurel instead of the Gown upon jvliich mutation, Ren Johnson said plea-lity to an early hour next morning. Within the last twelve months nearly 100 Members have joined this excellent Socitiv. THE CO ll OX A TtOW. young CO CRT OF SESSION. Pawnbrokers-?.I'Lachlan u. Yount.. This was an action against a pawnbroker to recover the value of u pair of sheas pawned with APLnchlati, the suspevder. A 'wr the expiry of a year. Young, ti e charger, sent to ledecm the pledge, when the pawnbrok er said, tV.-j time Ing expired, the goods were now for feited, cot s tjuc '.ly could not be given. 'oung, how ever, notvdihstan.ding of this, raised an action against the pswru.-ok' before the niagistrates of Glasgow, for the amount oj the a. tick' to wi.-ich she appeared, and found ed in M ppoi't of be - right so to act, upon the statute, Jfith ai d 41 tli Ao. iii. cap. IHi. The rnagistrutes, however, u Found lhac ll'.eru Is nothing in the statute referred to, to eu ersed. the right v Mo! the pumier has at common law t -. insist fur an account of the proceeds of the sale of the ! ads r,-fried to or an account of the manner in which the said goods ln.vc been disposed of. This judg ment was orcaabi under h e viwicw of the Court of Fes-•.iotj, by lull Oi suspension, winch was passed by Lo?d Crai.io, A.oid Ordi .i y officiating on the bills ar.d af ter wavds l 2lith June luffl , the letters were simplicittr suspended-thus bidding, that the time for redeeuJing tlie pledge, via. twelve months, having expired before appli cation. was made, the rigid of property m the article pledg ed became vested in the pawnbtaker. santly, that poets being iilwpys poor, bay fault? as fcvi oi i-c- prevented fn 1 £ fc v -sk car beit v'4 ct thir tl c cmidfrtjs of wit t! an wealth, !i James no sootier began to wear them, but h Adltinps in the pound in pnblbjuc vvluuli n. --Frng-rricnia Anlica, lt'62. j The drc.ss of each gentleman pensioner at the core ?ruvtion, is, we aie told, to contain one thousand two naked sugar-loaf buttons. If each cf these is to lmvc respective button hole, the genii nun had better coimr.fuicc dressing imuiccdat'ffy. U--i they be tcc late fv hc eeicciony. A warrant of dLoensation is passing, to enable the several Knights Grand Grosses of tlie Rath, nominat ed inee the lust installation, 1st June, 1319, to wear the collar, mantle, e. of the Order, as though itc-tually arid formally installed. Govevnrne t will provide for each Knight Grand Cross, a superb crimson mantle, lined with white taffeta, and the star embroidered on the left shoulder •, a black wlvet hat, a sword and belt, grid enair ofglL spurs. In like manner, there will be provided for the Knights Commanders w ! o may alien the solemnity, a short crimson satin mantle, with tint of the se cond class of the order embroidered thereon, arid fasr toned by a gold cordon swoyu and bell, black velvet hat, and a pah of gilt spurs. 'i'he train be irc. ■- of his M dc. ty nlrr dy appointed, are, tlie Marque, of Dimro, '-'.a to tlif Duke of Wel lington Earl cf n.cwdm , son of hv Marquis ofj ? Hastings Earl of Brock nock, son ot il o Marquis of I ' l Camden A'isi-oui.l ii.gea ilv, sou i me thirl of Tal bot Isaie of U'N'!.'.avi e e, scuof'. - .Vl .rquis of Cirol-moteleley and Viscount Crunbouri.ej nub ufi.be Mar quis of Salisbury. Mr Dyniccke, in tbu hone hot be u yy ho ho nour of personating the character of Ids Majesty's Champion on the J y of eorominou, bos I ecu for sortie time taking lemons vi V tUy's viding srha J, and hns tif.V - . ■ i - J. A p.-.'itr la • iftnt 'f a ulvu--XAVAL PROMOTIONS . Mil NTS. ixi Avroixr-To tlie rank of Post Captain.-Captain George Cornish Gain bier. To the rank of Commander.-The Right lion. th Lari of Huntingdon, the Right Hon. Lord Henry Thymic, and Lieutenants Robert Andoc, Price Black wood, and David Pear. To lui! rank of Lieutenant.-Messrs. Adolphus Fit .i I.nonce, Thomas Evans, 'Jliomas James, Parker I . Bingham, Edward Shacklock, John Jones, 'lias. J. F. Newton, Edward Digby, Willoughby Lake, Stewart N. lnglis, Hon. Richard Saunders Dimdas, and Thomas A. Lewis. To the rank of Surgeon.-Mr. Hugh Ferguson, Vice-Admiral Sir Benjamin Hallowed, Knight ComuifwidiT of the Order of the Bath, to he Com-m.ind- i'.in Ghiefat Sle.-erness, vice Rear-Admiral Sir John Gi re, v. liove p. i d of service iian expired. Guptiiins Henry P -scott, to the Aurora Sir Mur-ri Maxwell, to the Bulwark Price Blackwood, to tue Curlew '. Gambler, to the Dauntless Wil liam N yk, to tJ c G an net F. L. Maitland, to the Genoa . R. Dawkins, to the Helicon James Li lit rap, to the .Hyperion. Alexander Skene, to the Impregnable C. G. Askew, to the IWiUtin J. B. Cl iKrcm to the low und Chiurlc .Dashwowl, to tlie Yfiv .l.ov C'ftL. With respect to Sir John Marjoribarrks connec tion with the new Stamp Offlc ? and the Regent's Bridge, wc could wish that Mr. Hume had been more faithfully informed-we could wish that he hau known Edinburgh as it was, and as it is, and we are sure that, instead of endeavouring to throw any obloquy cm Sir Jolm Marjoribanks for any connection he had with tlie Regent's Bridge, he would join with us in tlie opinion wc have frequently taken occasion to express, that we are deeply indebted to tlie spirited exertions of that, gentleman, without which, in all probability, Edinburgh would never have undergone the splendid improvement it has experienced by tire access to tlie Gallon I Till being tluov n open to our most public street, and brought as it were into the centre of out-city. We remember when this improvement was tulk-ed of, and looked upon as perfectly chimerical. The difficulty and the cxpence seemed to interpose such insurmountable barriers, that the idea was banished almost without reflection, and it was only in conse quent e of a proposal having been made tc build a Jail in front of Prince's Street, that some individuals were induced to try the levels, and speculate on the possibi 1 ity of connecting Prince's Streetwith the Gallon Hill, where abundance of room would be found for prisons, or any thing else that the extension of Edinburgh now rendered indispensable. Sir John was then our Chief Magistrate, he suw the advantages of the plan, and immediately adopted the vicw.s of those that re commended it and wc believe, with a facility incre dible even to himself-so warmly was lie seconded by those who were inteiested, that the necessary arrange ments were made in a very short space of time-a splen did entrance was added to our own romantic city aiul a stieet created not inferior in splendour to any in the empire. It was on the ground which came to be sold in this street tlmt the ConnYiissionecs depended for a conside rable share of the expence, and this ground was expos ed to public auction. The stances on out side went off pretty freely, but those on the other hung for some time in the market, when Sir John,, anxious that these stances should present no stop lo the proceedings, took the whole upon himself, and at tins- time, wc are convinced without contemplating any connection what ever with tho Stamp oiffee.'Edinburgh Paper. TStrtb . On tlie 23th ult. at his house in Marlborough Square, Brompton, Mrs. Mackenzie, Lady of Tho mas Mackenzie, Esq. of a son. At Paris, the Lady of Earl POULFTT, of a son. At Paris, on the 22d ult. Lady Buchan, of a son. At Portsmouth, on tlio 2d curt, the Right Hon. Lady Greenock, of a daughter. At Putney, on the 27th ult. the Lady of John Pa terson, Ksq. Captain of the- lion. East India Coro-pony's ship Repulse, of a yen. 39ftrrtfi rf . At Walsale, on the 14th ult. J. S. Bhown, Esq. merchant, Edinburgh, to Mama, youngest daughter ' tho late Jolm Badger, Emj. Laymore House, Staf fordshire. On the Sd curt, by the Rev. Archibald Alison, Wm Macdowall, Esq. advocate, to Miss Elizabeth Christian Dcndas, third daughter of Mr Jaimes Dun-das of OcbUrtyrc, clerk to the signet. At Dacca, Bengal, on the 27th February JaMFS Charles Maclean, of tlie 11th native infantry, to Elizabeth Margaret, eldest daughter of Richard Owen Wynne, Chief Judge at Dacca. At Weymouth, on the 28th ult Thomas Gordon,, Esq. of Islington, Ixmdcn, to Sarah, fourth daugh ter of Will km Oakley, Esq. late Mayor of that xx-rough. lTearhu At Edinburgh, on tin? 15th ult. Elizabeth, eldest daughter of George S ndila.n is, Esq. At Edinburgh, on tto 29th ult. Mr A LEX. Dal-MAiiOY, St. Andrew's Street. At Florence on the 3d ult. Jamvs Wentworth Murray, Esq. On the 13th ult. Dr HaoCP, Professor of Music in the University of Cambridge. At Gosport, on the 19th ult. in theSOth year of his age, Major W. Bennett, Royal Engineers. At his seat. Pinner-grove, Middlesex, Sir F. Mil-Man, Bare. M. D. F. ft. S. iu the 7Sth year of Ilk age. . FROM A JAMAICA NEWSPAPER. Virttisr o t funera vhit. Died in Trelawr.cy Parish, Jamaica, on Thursday the 2d March, Urqfkaut Gillespie, Ksq. in tkeflOth year of h s age. after a reskltnce of tiity-six yearn in the island. His funeral wax respectably and r.umurcmsiy at-tended, and all evinced a xwtiJtient of sincere regrtt aril due homage to his departed worth. The writer of thi short acwjur.t had great opportunities of knowing him well and intimately, arid though he w ishes to pay a just tribute to his various merits, he is perfectly unswayed by the partiality of friendship lor, alut ! of what servn tc die departed can an eulcgium in a, newspaper be ? A character, however, ho respectable for public and piiva.c virtues, adorned by the h.ftppy con n at on cf gtt t natural cr.dowmcr tx, with acuhiVaud mind, and thv dn •icol stor x of ancient learning, cannot, and perhapeoug t not to pass without some observation. No person could have adopted with move propriety sunvitcr in modo. fortiter iu re, as a motto for his character. His wh l life was an illustration of the former and his memorable letters to General Nugcut, displaying rolixbcd ecnipc ,-tion, with a just ar.d honourable resentment- evinced, latter. He was born in Old .Mcldrum, a rillage in the north of Scotland, of respcctal le parents. He te k his atadf mic l degree in the University of New Aberdeen where he also first studud Medicine, and altn wards at Edin burgh. He seems to have been fitted by nature for the study of his profession, for lie possessed great sagacity, uncommon sweetnerx of temper, wu.devful strength and acccracy of rcvolluction, and a natural activity'toth ot' in on court of justiciary. Monday the Court having met, Daniel Aitchiwn was placed at the bar, accused of beiag coru emed art and part in the thcftuously abstracting from the person of Dr. Robert Burt a gold watch, with gold chain and appendages, at the head of Bank Street, in Edinburgh, on the 20th of November last tto prisoner wax also charged with being habit ar,d repute a thief. The in dictment having been vesd, tlie prisoner pleaded Not Guilty. The Jury returned t written ecrdict, finding the prisoner, by a plurality of vo efe, Guilty art and part of the crime libelled. The Lord Advocate restricted the libel, and the prisoner was sentenced to transpor tation for fourteen years. Michael M'C dh m was placed at tlie bar, diargpd with abstracting a bundle, containing wearing apparel, receipt of the Commercial Bank tbr £1200, and a j Variety at otS' r a, ticb -s, frotil Uiv Watorloo k'uuwti on body find mind, wl-.iih never permitted indolence. It exceedingly probable, that had hit destinatiep been u f TO ecute the science of Medicine in Britain, he would ir.ve arrived at gnat eminence as there to would have l ad more oj portumcies of leisure, and inhteourse with lit-. avy men, with more abstraction from other pursuits of lift but even as it was, he has written very respect -bly and usefully on several subjects of tlie healing art. A gradual decay of nature a Tor dud him tue fullest indication of his approaching dissolution, and lie w .., finite placid and resigned. The illner.s which carried on this valuable member of society at last, was rfhort ?n du.ation ar.d alluding to that circumstance, hi- mij i have exclaimed with Garth,-u k To dia, is landing on silent shore fc M f lierabiU wh neidier break nor tempest roar-u 4 Ere we can feel thefitnuRy stroke tis o'er.' In line, his life, though not interwoven with many ini. dents of a remarkable nature, was a life of virtue and his public spirit, hospitality urbanity, avid tlie various excclleaeus of liis enltgj.taxed mind, will be long rcnicu,-bc-retL He died, too, in the per fact txeniie of his senses, and possessed of the lVusvcU and regard of h.s sur irin fritmto OSankruprg. Creditors of Donald Macconal , tacksman f Xloimr and Dubbiock. mewtiu John Cumorcn's, writer in Dingwall, JOtb July. A LEXAJ DtCIt Kei MaN, breuxf nnd baker in Ai cv riven, has applied fer i J syhcu
X. 365 i 365 SH AYES SHAVES, t• SHAVES ! A V1KOLIA FOR 6° -HAVING STICK k k 1 to last a Year. TKEII'ISA FOOTBIEL EDITION. Being the Saturday issue of the EVENING POST, CADBURY'Si COCOA, The typical Cocoa of English Manufacture, Absolutely Pure. The Analyst. NO CHEMICALS USED As in many of ho so-called pure h oreijn Cocoas . v Mr. Vol. CXXXII. No, 8504 EXETER SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1894. Established 1763. One Half-penny j EEFA!D DVERTlStSMBNTS. 1 ITCATIONS ANTED For th following Classes i E R VAN T S, A PA RT M E NT S TO LET, FOR SALE, c., Ajr inserted in the evening post At the undermentioned rates -Once. 3 tim . 6 times. 0 6 1 0 1 6 0 9 1 6 2 3 1 0 2 0 3 0 1 2 fi 3 9 1 fi 3 0 4 6 1 9 3 S 5 3 2 3 4 i 6 0 I I VEN1XG POST, SIX DAYS. Frplies to Advertisement , if addressed .tea. Tost Office, must be delivered w.rth-elreet, Exeter. AT IONS WANTED. 20 Words or Less, 6d. y out of n tuaiion ? The best wav to one s to advertise in the 14 Kveuing TABLISHKT 1883.-Rudd's Tlogisfcry tor P-Ufthle Servants, Male and Female. , pit one state requirements. and enclose or reply. Gw it ear© taken in the ,n of suitable aervants.-Address Uodd's • rv, 97, South-street. Kxeler. 'TC'HRRS.- Lad requires Situation slight r ienre. age 16, use to horses. •-A. C a. Ilindon, Salisbury, Wilts. -'F working seeks situation, experi-r w o farm work and management from wife, dairy, and poultry if required 'Terences.--Bailiff, Hazelbury House, ref-t, T'edrrinster. Bristol. n Penman and Bookkeeper wishes tor . -.-awe employment terms moderate refem.ccs.-Apply 0., of this paper. IT'XG Woman, age 23, wishes Situation as P vn Took or Cook General wage £12 -Applv A.W.. cars of Mrs. Burston, areet. Teignmouth. Stamp for reply. USF Parlourmaid or Housemaid will be situation, age 23. En pse stamp. SITUATIONS VACANT. 20 Words or Less. 6d. A RE you Seeking an Engagement ? The best way to get one is to advertise in the Evening Posi. R UDD'S Male ana roadie Servants Registry, 97, Roukh-ftreet,Exeter. Estab lished 1863. If you want a situation send all particulars, and enclose stamp for reply to the above ad drew. Thoroughly reliable. XJV ANTED Immediately .fobbing Compositor. _ - Apply Axwoitby, New - street, Paignton. VV7 ANTED at once a good active General Servant, 25 to 30, understand Plain Cooking.-Horse and Groom, Heavitree. - 'r - r. 16,Strand, Dawlish. t Housemaids single handed, also Under-L Hoi-cm aid , numbers waiting engagements. • amp.-Harris's Agency,Newton Abbot. Y r F.fTL Lad ffrom country. Age 16 with 2 years' good reference from last place, f r.x oii to meet with a situarion. Can take 'Z of horse and carriage, willing to make • • cent-rally useful. Registered No. 365.-eoc'osmg stamped diteeted envelope , . Registry, Exeter. r OrNG Woman, are 20, wishes Situation as ! Housemaid or Kitchenmaid in gentleman's . t Exeter preferred last place in two • • iefr for no fault. Stamp fm reply -At r E M .-care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, • a T'RSK. age 25, twelve months character, ., 1 will he glad of situation. Enclose stamp. - leaner, 16, Strati' , Dawlish. LIMITING engagements - Parlourmaids, ' t salaries £18 to £24 all good characters. - 'tarris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Stamp for ITT' ATION desired as Parlourmaid, agd 25. Foclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Daw I't''ANTED Situation as Butlers, Footmen, Grooms. Groem-gardners, Coachmen.-Tin. Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. D .7 CATION desired as House-parlourmaid or • Ho semaid, wage £18 to £20, age 29. -r tr.mp.-Agency. 16, Strand, i awlifth. T l PECTABLE Widow, age 35, wishes l l Sibiatioo as Plain Cook in gentleman's family. Ftsrnp for reply.-Apply Mr . G., e - -f Mrs Burston, Fore-street, Teignmoulh. NTED Servants to know that they can h ar of good vacancies in every capacity sA Agency, Newton Abbot. Home for s in o-nuection with the Ajjenry. zzx t J t ' I I l ! i kl B W ANTED situation a- Gardener or Groom-1 iardener no objection to cows useful • ling, married, c e 29.-J Bowden, 8tone, iri Li-t - mm ■■ r d, lvybridpe. •. v o U' I i f ' • vrs-Situation wanted aft Slauffhter-Ai.. to asrist in shop a d make himself r nseful • good reference .-Oldrieve, I ■ • 1 . . Dittisham, Dartmouth. Us 4 r.R HOUSEMAID, age 17, will he glad tnation. Enclose stamp.-Agency. nd, Dawlish. NOTABLE Young Man desire Situa-v as Porter in house ot Business. Four i reoce. - ,1. Glover, care of Mr . . Prinees-street, Dorchester. am Cook and House - Parlourmaid ?ker, excellent characters wages £18 n n.-Harris, Agencv Newton Abbot D Plain Cook wishes situation iu Teign-h well recommended, now dis-. age 24 wag-s £20. Stamp for reply, r 0 , rare of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, H OME EMPLOYMENT - Plain Writers wanted, either sex, for Bonk Agency Correspondence no book buying, no canvassing. Instructions 4d. Specimen copv with instruc tions lOd. Liberal payment.-F.J.M.,'' 1, The Bridge, Witney, Oxon. 1 ENERAL Wanted for high-class Lodging-house at Dawlish another servant k pt. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish TANTED Housemaid, good needlewoman, ▼ ▼ parlourmaid kept, two in family. Stamp. •- Harm 1 Agency, Newton Abbot. OBRVANT8 of all classes wanted for Gentle-man's. Family's, Private, and Business Houses.-Apply Mrs Burston, Teignmouth. C lOOK.-Wanted, good Plain Cook. Parlour-1 maid and housemaid kept.-Apply by letter to Mrs. Sfcabb, Croft Lodge, Torquay. 'I OOD General wanted for business house at X Dawlish. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Ft rand, Dawlish. R espectable Married ceupie, no family, would adopt child small premium required good home country-P., Grove Cottage, Grove-road, Fishponds, Bristol. URSE or adoption any age good home. A v -For particulars, address A. G., 3b, Arch-wsy-road, Upper Holloway, N. OUNG Housemaid for a family near Exeter, I £6 Housemaid, where parlourmaid is kept, Exeter. Housemaid, about 18 Exeter. Housemaid, about 19, willing to assist other servants for a school in Exeter.-Apply enclos ing stamped directed envelope , Rudd's Registry, Exeter. fXTANTED experienced and Plain Cooks, ▼ F salaries £18 to £25 vacancies iu all parts. Callor write.-Harris's Servants' Agency, Newton Abbot. R VBPBCTARIiB Girl age 17 ro 18, healthy, wanteil in private family 3 iu Teign-mouth a General Servant, must be willing to do a little waahiug, p rt put out, no boots, knives, or windows, for Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. H., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teign-month. A GENTS wanted to sell our celebrated w Packet Teas, Fre eh Coffee in Tina, and , Cocoa. Particular fre . Oliver, Oliver k Co., 4f , Southgato-road. London. r ANTKD Hotel Housemaid, also Kitchen-▼ v maid from private houses preferred.-Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. I ADY and Working - Housekeepers, J Govern ease#. Ladies' Maids, Experienced nd Plain Cooks, Housemaids, Parlourmaids, Generals, Butler®, Footmen, Pages, and every description of mala and female servant® exool-lei t enaraefcers.-Apply Mrs. Dickinson, Head Register OfRee, Market-aarade. Gloucester. S EVERAL Vacancies for good General Ser vants. Wages £12 to £16. Also 3 Girls, of 16 years of age, willing to be trained, wanted for small families in Exeter.-Apply enclosing stamped directed eavelope Rudd's Regi stry, Exeter. 'XT'OUNG Man Wanted £26 per quarter J. paid weekly splendid opening specimens free.-Address Oompo Works, Farnworth Bolton, Lancashire. OOD Cook wanted immediately for gentle-X man's family near Southampton, three other servants kept, wages £18 Stamp for reply. -Apply Mrs. A , care of Mrs. Bnrston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. A gents wanted. - country Tutors, Drapers, and others, wanted to represent the well-known Advertising Firm of Tailors, Woolf Bros., particulars on application.-Address Agency, Woolf Bros., 37, Barbican, Loudon, E.C H ARRIS'S Highly-patronised Agency for Governess's, H lps, male and female, Domestics, 72, Quecm-street, Newton Abbot. Best medium for ladies and servant . Stamp for reply. J ADIE3 may always obtain good servants J and servants good situations by applying at The Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. W ANTED Good Plain Cook for doctor's family iu Ilfracombe three in family.-Apply Mrs. Payne, Capestone Lod e, Ilfracombe. W ANTED immediately tor gentlemans smell family in Barnstaple House-parlonrmaid, age 20 to 25. Wages £12 to £15, all found. a 1 i_ ' 1 U' 11 KMAID, three years character, age 20, wishes for situation in London or large Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, VTKD Situation as Experienced Cook where Kitcheunaid kept. Wage® £30, t reference .-Harris's Agency, Newton Stamp f r reply. ERAL Grooms, Coachmen, Butlers, rdeners with good testimonials require For particulars, apply enclosed directed envelope to Ruud's Registry, EM AID, three years' character, w.fhea for Situation Lcudon or town i Enclose stamp.-Agerry. 16, Strand, ''KG Lady, age 19, wished engagementaa vf d Companion or Governess salary .f'h consequence as comfortable home. r reply.-Apply Miss L., care of Mrs. .. Fore street, Teignmonth. AlTING engageMenta.-Nurses, Laities .ud Sewing Maids.Mothers Helps,Useful Ftamp. - Harris's A coney, Newton D Plain Cook, middle aged, wishes for d ation Dawiish or neighbourhood ■ed Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, ANTED s'.tuAtir as single-handed Ha ivmaid, or House-Parlourmaid. zh'ij experienced.-L., Mayeliffe, Tor-on Book Jusscgaged. Regiatered ' 369, 376, 381. Also a Man Cook, a N-. S33. All with etcclknt reference?, enclosing stamped directed envelope parlourmaid, age 20 to 25. Wages £12 to £15, all found. Good character required. Stamp for reply-Apply Mrs. R., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. VirANTED Nurse-Housemaid for Paignton, f v Also House - parlourmaid, Generals. Stamp.-Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. d OOD Cook wonted for high cla-s hotel at T Paignton Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. VRTANTED two superior Servants as Plain V v Cook and House-parlourmaid for one lady Torquay salaries £29 each.-Apply Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. B ETWEEN-MAID wanted immediately fer gentlemans family in Dawlish, must he fairly strong and of nr at appearance. Stamp for reply,-Apply Mrs. D., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. XT ANT ED good Plain Cook. Also House-▼ v parlourmaid small family.-72,Queer.-street, Newton Abbot. Bin ERAL Wanted for family house near 1C Dawlish, Enclose Stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawl-sh. 'I OOD Plain Cook for a lady and gentleman X in the country, wages £18 very com fortable situation. Also a Cook for small family in Exeter, wages £18 Also Cook for a school -Apply enclosing stamped envelope , Rudd's Registry, Exeter. XTT ANTED immediately for gentleman ▼ T family 2 in Teignmouth, good General Servant whocan cook.must be well recommended, age 22 to 25, wages £14 to £15. Dine early. Stamp for reply.-ApplyMrs. C., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. H OUSE-PARLOURMAID Wanted for two ladies at Newton. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlrih. ANTED Hair Brush Finishers.-Apply KeHcu and Co., Otterv St. Mary, T HO LKSALK Provision Trade.-Manager v ? wanted for Birmingham depot, must be good salesman and prepared to invrst £800 to £1,000.-Apply to J. W Wall, solicitor, Kxchanga-street. East Liverpoal. 7SRIC LEMMON. Chemist, 47, Higb-street, L ADIES can be suited with go d servant and servants with good situations by applying to Miss Grimwade, 3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton MONEY. S MART Young worki ng m achi nery. Exeter. -T £5 W ANTED a Young Girl about 16 for house work.-Apply 122, Fore-treet. W ANTED Boy to deliver milk and make himself generally useful.-Apply Brom-ham's, Haven Banks. W ANNTED strong respectable Lad, must be active and willing for stable work, and make himself generally useful.-J. S. Dunning, Alphingfcon-etreet. W ANTED immediately for gentleman's small family good General, two other servants kept, age 25 to 35, wage? £2C dine late. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. B., cere,of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. and Upward? Advanced in Full at a low rate of interest no preliminary fees arry Hems and Sons, j charged. All communications strictly private and confidential. £10 advanced, repayable by 12 monthly instalment? of £1. Prospectuses free. Stamp for reply.-Apply T. Bowen, 9, Frankforfc-street, Plymouth, agent to the Carlton Bank, Limited, of 38, Finsbury Pavement. London. Agent for Exeter wanted EDUCATIONAL. R E-KNWAQEMENT as Nursery Governess 1 English, music, good needlewoman.-Apply Miss Rowe, 2, Bridge -road, Prineetown. W ANTED by Young Lady eneagement as Nursery Governess, English, Mtwic, French, good references, salary £18.-Apply 3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton. S ANITARY INSPECTORS. - Gentlemen rapidly prepared for Beam, by successful coach correspondence and terms of expert, Fulham London system. 1 -Testimonials 10, Waldemar-aveaue, W ANTED engagement resident Governess English. French, German, labin,drawing, music, and needlework. Several years experi ence. Salary £20.-3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton. BOARD APARTMENTS. j 101, SOUTH-STREET, EXETER. THE SPECIAL TAILOR. J DAB from Seymour Bros., • and formerly at Meyer and Mortimer, Court Tailors, London . High-class Materials for Three Guinea Dress Suit. 16 - Trousers to meet the depression in trade. MISCELLANEOUS. P ICTURES Framed Cheap at WOOD'S, 103 Foro-street opposite Fore-street Post Office . F REE REAPING.-Unitarian Publications sent free on application to Miss H. Caddirk, 7, Dochess-roac!, Edgbaston. S OUTH House, eight rooms, to Let for Christmas holiday terms,very moderate terrace, Paignton. DEVON. - Furnished Detached t for Apply 3, Torbay-F URNISHBD Apartments.-Two Dsdrooms and Sitting-room quiet neighbr urho ad central.-♦, New Buildings, Gandy-street. Terms moderate. ' COMFORTABLE Board and lodgings for one J or two gentlemen.-Apply 4, Bystock-tsrrace. I ODGINGS to Let, suit single gentleman or J elderly lady, very moderate terms.-Carrington, Avenue-road, Terqury. Y 11 1SITOBS TO LONDON. - Tnvrrae Watkrmo Porm., one mmmto from arrival platform • aomfovtable and convenient moderate tariff. - Address Waterloo Hotel, York-road, Waterloo, London, S.E. telegrams to Tuffins' Hotel, Loudon. Porter to await arrival of visitors at station by annombmeut. W ANTED a Second-hand Parisian Phaeton for ponv 12 hands, not to exceed 4cwt., state price.-W. K. K., H, Fleet-street, Torquay. H OME.-Plain svriting copying recipes good remuneration sample recipes, 7d.i Stamps returnable if not appointed, and stamped envelope.-Guest's Novelty Cor., 38, Wernpit-road, Landore, S. Wales. A dvertisements received at the office of this P aper tor all the London, Continental, and Provincial Newspapers. The most economical and speedy way of transmitting advertisements. A STROLOGY.-Marriage success. Future described, life like description of your elf. Birthtime. Sex. Fourteen stamps -Profeasor Blakemore, 118, Hampton-street, Birm nghnm. V ESICO SUDORIFIC is the Bnest and most humane Blitter for Horses in the world. No blemish ! No fixing the head I No rest needed! Porsplint, Spavin,Ringbone,Sidehone, Capped Hock and Elbow, Curb, Windgal , Tumours, and for strengthening the Legs of Horses. littoe 2s 6d and 5s, of all chemists, or post free ofMteproprietor, Gregory, Veterinarian, Bristol O tJKBOXOP CLARKE'S B U PILLS is warranted to cure all diseha-gea trom the Urinary Organs, in either sex acquired or con stitutional , Gravel, and Paios in the Back. Guaranteed free from Mercury. Sold in Boxes. 4s. fid. each, by all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors throughout the World or sent to any address for sixty stamps by the Makers, The Lincoln and Midland Counties Drug Com pany,Lincoln. CHEAPEST Hu USE IN THE CITY FOR PROVISIONS. LENBON BROS., 00 FORE-STREET EXETER. THEATRE ROYAL, EXETER. LAST NIGHT, at 7.30, of -MR. 3V. .1. LANCASTER'S PRIVATE SECRETARY COM PAN V. Preceded by a Comedietta, entitled A LOVE GAME. Doors open 7. Commence 7.30 Second price at 9. Box Oftice ooea 11 to 4. POLLARD'S OFFICIAL HISTORY ANDGUIDE TO EXBTER. W ITH an account of the Ecclesiastical Municipal, and Commercial History the City by Eminent Writers. Prick Is. POLLARD AND CO 39 and 40. North-street, Exeter. of NOOKS A CORNERS IN THE LAND OF CONSTABLE AND CROME. A SERIES OF SKETCHES NOW ON VIEW AT SCOTT A SONS' ART GALLERY, 11, HIGH-STREET, EXETER ADMISSION l aEK. JpKOVIDENT BUILDING L c pERMANENT SOCIETY HOUSES AND PROPERTIES. 20 Words or Less, 6d. A RB you House-Hunting ? The best way to find what yon want is to advertise in the Bvening Post. mn o v a l s XrANTED Small House or House and Shop, v V in good neighbourhood.-Particulars to Alpha, EvenijufPost. I Yt PORD.-Furnished Cottage to let for A winter months, rent very moderate.- F, care of Mr. Bickle, Lydford, Bridcstowc. piUKNITURK B Y VANS from U m ta House, without trouble or risk to the Owners, aod mdor the control of the Railway Companies. Apply at the RAILWAY OFFICES, 97 Q UBBN £j TRKBT ' j XETER. Ctmmodutu! Dry Warehouse Jo Storing furniture. 0.LASS JNSUBANCE. REPLACEMENTS of glass in i OaS EXETER SINCE 1878 BY THE LONDON AND - COUNTY OFFICE. Aoest JOHN ALGAR, MUSEUM HOUSE, EXE TER OANS GRANTED on Freehold or Lease hold Properties, on Moderate terms of Repayments, W. S. MORTIMER, Secretary, 14. Bedford-circue, Exeter. INDIA RUB BEK HOT WATER BOTTLES ™ 3 s 6 EACH sk W. PACKHAH AND S0F, 19, QUEEN-STREET, EXETER. ILLUSTRATED CASH TRICE LIST FREE NORWICH UNION FIRE OFFICE. ESTABLISHED 1797. HEAD OFFICE NORWICH. SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL £1,100,000 SUM INSURED ending 1893 exceeds £320,000,000 TOTAL ASSETS, 31st Dec., 1893 £1,109,000 BRANCH OFFICE OPPOSITE THE GUILDHALL, J. TEMPLE rON, EXETER FAT STOCK ANT POULTRY SOCIETY. President T. B. BOLITHO, Esq., M.P. THE ELEVENTH ANNUAL EXHIBITION will be held in the LOW UR MARKET. I'XETEFf, On FRIDA DECEMBER l th EexL Prizes amounting to about ENTRIES OLO E SATURDAY. December la Schedules may be had on application to W. H. KELL AND, Hon. Sec., Queen-street, Exetsr. rji O Fruiterers and Florists.- 4 ' Th Fernery ' Shop suitable for a tobacconist or as offices.-Apply to James Knill and Co., 20, Bedford-circus, Ercter. C OTTAGE Wanted.-Wanted by a respectable married man a Small Cottage, about 3s 6d per week frontage town.- 9, Gundry-lane, Bridport. Let m M.W., P ART of an Untarnished House to higher part of city.-Address Etrniny Post, 29, North-street. lOUTH Devon Famished House to Let for ROSES! ROSES!! S TANDARD and Dwarf ROSES are now ready for planting Fruit Trees, Grape Vines, Raspberry Canes, Currant and Goose berry Bushes, also Shrubs, Climbers, Ac. Grounds laid rut, planted, and general gardening attended to on moderate terms. Catalogues free. CHARLES WALTERS, POLSIPE-KOAD EXETER s moderate.-3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton. T O Let Fnraished Cottage five rooms near sea and cbr.rch terms very moderate.-Address White, 50, Orchard-terrace, Seaton. P ORTHTOWAN, North Coast of Cornwall.-Air unrivalled, Furnished Houso.-Apply to W. Treweek, Bank, Redmth. SALES. 20 Word6 or Less, 6d. A RE you trying to Let or Sell yoar House ? xA The test way to disp se of it is by adver tising in the Evening Post. EDWIN ALGAR, -pAPER jpg-ANGINQS J EALER, 98, SOUTH STREET, KXETER ART WALL PAPERS COST NO MORE HAN ORDINARY PATTERNS. Patterns Free. Lonest Prices. K OBERT VEITCH and SON, The Royal i Nurseries, tarter, invite inspection of their stock of Fruit Trees, Roses, Choice, Ornamental, and Flowering Shrubs, Ac. Cata logues post free on application. ECIPW ef valuable ointment for Sale 1 cheap.-Apply H. Jones, 10, Upper North-street, Brighton. R OSES. ROSES. ROSES -For exhibition and other purposes, teas and hybrid, 12 strong dwarfs 7s for cash.-D. Davies, Lugwar-dine. Hereford. EAUTIFUL Serge iDm, Material , Black and Blue, Is 4d t nd Is 91 yard, fifty-four inches carriage paid.-Bradford Woollen Co., Swan Arcade, Bradford. I 7 OR Sale, good Pony _and Trap.-Apply 9, Beanfort-road, St. Thntna-. T QBAK8RS.-For Sale. Handcart, splendid condition no further use price £5 or offers.-Tom Hunt, Sidwell-street, Exeter. W HOLESALE Provision Burioess fer dis posal in Midland Counties, turnover £500 weekly, at good profits working expenses very moderate capital required £1,500to £2.000.-Apply to Mr. J. 3V. Wal', solicitor, Exchauge-street, Liverpool, ARGAIN seldom met with.-Safety B pattern never lifted taken for debt no nse to owner weight 301bs listed £23 10s wonderful chance seut on approval with pleasure cash £6 12s 6d.-5, Regent-street, Weston-super-mare W H' p-gvtrr, Buxeier. Ui fr -USCMA1D8 and House-Parl Mira o d oa v.kn dKengogad. Registered N . 35c, • • 374, 577, 380. Ail with goed choj-rv'ters. ■ c'Kx .ug stamped d rc to i envelope - Hry, BnltTi ANTED Mtvation as N M n takeliaby f r om mor.ih highest references, now •e d. Et mp.-Harris, Agency, Newton -lYfJfi ertavtiiu by list era Pima Cook H.tim • Fariorunaaid together k -s4 jar . both good character . Stamj ' Aranev. Nanraa Abbot. lii Rxeter. has a Vacancy for a well-educated youth as an apprentice. No premium it outdoor. G BNRIKAL Wanted for private family at Dawli h. Wages £10 to £12. Enclose stomp.-Agencv 16, 8tr .nd t Dawlish. _ f ANTtl General Servants, numbers of Y f vucancies in all parts, town and country. -Cal or write, Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Stamp for reply '1 OOD General wauted for high-class lodsing-T house 't Dawlish. Enclose stamp.-Agency. 16. Strand. Dawlish. --UTANTUD for Wimbledon good Ceoeral y ▼ Servant, where another kept, must bo good plain cook. Good wage . Arrangement made about foro up-Harris' Servants' Agency, N wto AbbcC J I T i nonsense to be satisfi ?d with any yeast when bread is one of the staple articles of food. Your bread should be sweet and nourish ing, aud to secure this the finest yeast must be used. Buy a known and tested brand. Ask for D.C.L. Mast, grocers sell it, but if you cannot get it, write to The Distillers Co.. Ltd., Edinburgh, the sole manufacturers, who willgive you the address of the nearest agent. More agents wanted. Sample sent for four stamps. I j OR Sale, new and second-hand Broughams, Landans, Landaulettee, Hansoms, Vic torias, four-wheel and two-wheel Dogcarts, Governess Cars and Waggonettes also good secoud-hand Break, with head, to carry 13.-Apply Phillips Bros., Coachbuilders, 46, Paris-street, Exeter. C IIDER ! Cider !! Cider!!!-Any who have • Cider Sour or Reamed should try Bright's Cider Restorer. One packet sufficient for one hogshead. By post for Is 4£d, or two packets for 2a fid. Try it.-Apply T. Hawkes, Iron monger, Tounton. , C 'l AS ENGINES Croftsley's , aii sizes, Second W Hand. Thoroughly overhauled at works. Estimates for supplying and fixing. Immediate attention given to breakdowns, and repair by practical men of twenty years' experience. Engines scientifically tested and adjusted for their marimn power with he smallest consump tion of gas. olidrefaced all ports kept in stock.---H. O. 6L ong, Engineers, St. PaqFf. Bristol. T n-f THE EXETER GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY HAVE A LARGE ASSOKTMENTOF THE MOST APPROVED 3 AS FIRES, c. ON VIEW AT 248 HIGH-STREET, EXETER. FAULKNER'S WEST OF ENGLAND CEMETERY WORKS, MAGDALEN BRIDGE, EXETER. MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES, CHIMNEY PIECES, ., r, n STOCK to select from. EXETER, DISTRICT MANAGER FOR DEVON, CORNWALL, AND DORSET, To whom applications for agencies should be made ESTABLISHED 1845. W. R. LISLE, 179, FORE-STREET, EXETER, WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER JEWELLER. AND SILVERSMITH. SPECIALITIES -Genuine Silver English Levers £2 2s 0d. Heavier aud Superior ditto £3 03 0J. Real Silvtr Watches at 20s, aud Gold from 42s Watcrbury Watches 10s 6d, 17s 6d. LaigeStock of Ciocks from 2s Cd. All Warranted. ALL REPAIRS ON THE PREMISES. ROSES! ROSES!! hOSES!!! ACRES OF ROSES. 100,000 Magnificent PLANTS to select from. The best and cheapest in the world plant now. Catalogues free on application. Large Stock of Fruit Trees, Shrubs, c. JAMES WALTERS. MOUNT RADFORD NURSERIES, EXETER AUTISTIC DECORATIONS. I LAGS, Scenery, c., for Balls, Concert , Fancy Bazaars, Dramatic Performance , and other Entertainments, for Sale or Hire also Platforms, Tabling, Seating, 61c., for Tea Partiea -Apply B. HEATH and SON, Builders, Sfc SidwelPf Avenue. Exeter I TAlfV 1D dressing is sought by .VAA L1 lU I many. How to look well J on a limited income bas perplexed many a thr ftjr housewife. is here the Djer aud Cleaner can ! help you. Y'our own and the girl's dresses cm be dyed for winter wear, your huiband'ft aud tha boys' clothes cleaned aud dyed aud made wearahta for many a long day. Then the household furnishings can be cleaned aud dyed and so 1 frtsheued as to make the home look bright and ! comfortable. We can do all this for you at MIXSER'S, EXETER DYE WORKS, 16, THE ARCADE. ! SUNDERLAND WALLSEND, CARLTON SILKSTONE, AND ALL BEST COALS AT LOWEST PRICES. WARD AND 00., 23, Qukes Stkest oppisite the Mnsjam Chief Offices Sr. David's Station. W. V. COLE, ACCOUNT BOOK MANUFACT'iTrtBR, ANUFACTUUING gTATIONER, 4m Books Haled to an Pattern aud Well Bound ia an Style. 87 AND 32, SOUTH STREET, EXETER. Tklbi'honb No. 101. E. A. MARRIOTT'S PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE, 235, HIGH-STREET, EXETER. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. By all Makers. Illustrated Lists Free. GVLAT ANNUAL SALE. Unprecedented Prices for Cash. On the Hire Purchase System. WRITE FOR LISTS. The Largest Assortment in West of England. J Carriage Free. Tuned Free for One Year. Exchanged Free if not Approved. CHRISTMAS SEASON,11894. A. WHEATON CO. HAYI! JUST RECEIVED THEIR XE'.V STOCK OF ANNUALS, DIARIES, ALMANACKS FOR 1895. NEW PRIZE BOOKS AND GIFT BOOK FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. BIBLES, PRAYER BOOKS, BOUND POETS, c. XT' List of New Publications Post Fro f EFT-OFF QLOTHES ANTED Immediately, for Home ar.d Colonies. MR. AND MRS. MARTIN A RE giving the best Prices for all kinds of Ladies', Gentlemen's, and Children's Left-off Clothes, Boots, Linen, kc. Wardrobes purchased to any amount. Ladies and Geatle-men waited ou by appointment in town or country. P.O. Orders remitted by return for couutry parcels. Parce's, Boxes, aud letters addressed to Mr. or Mrs. MARTIN, 5, NORTH-STREET, EXETER, Receive immediate attention. INSURANCE OFFICE. FIRE . Fotosed 1710. Bum insured in 1892, £395,854,440, SUN For all particulars apply to the following Agents, . Mr. Jas Knill h Co., 20, Bedford Circus. Exeter Mr . H g t . George Slight. Axminstcr Mr. James Smyth. Bampton Mr. Henry Langdon. Broadclyst Mr. C. T. B. Sanders. Budlcigh Sftlterton Mr. Frank N. Parson , j Messrs. Kcrley aud Ellis I Mr. Thomas Abell. Honiton..,, Mr. R. W. Tucker. Moretonharupstead Mr. Thomas Neck, i Ottery St.Mnry Mr. John Warn, i Southmclton Mr. 0. J. H.North Devon Coast. HE FLFRACOMBE T HE J H OTEL. NEWCOMBE CO 109, FORE-ST., EXETER. A RE Showing the largest aud most varied Stook of Improved TILED GRATES from 16s to £10. CHIMNEY PIECES from 15s to £20, TILED HEARTHS from 7s. KITCHEN RANGES of every description. Prices from ONE ta THIRTY GUINEAS. Illustrated Catalogues free by Post. Rang aud Hot Water work efficiently carried oat Experienced Workmen sent to any part. 1 Stands in its own grounds wifi fiue terrace on sea-front. Splendi Swimming Baths. Manager, H. S. Grover. the MATRIMONIAL HERALD snd FASHIONABLE MARRIAGE GAZETTE. EAGLE RANGE AND GRATE DEPOT LIBERAL CASH and TRADE DISCOUNT. Official 0 £ '■ ot tlie Wo.ld's • rest Marriage Association iLtd. K t. 1883. vacotonuMided by t li i-Jnrgy. BriiliaiU iv KlirCOftftl !ui necociations for 1894. Marvellous increase in tnarringe.s. rxc! US', vt-iy patronised by thv o'b itty, pro-fesftioual, and cocnw rcia! cla aus throughout tbu British limpin', tIs inncuiticeutMud practically illiinitaiilH clientele daily augmented l y private recommendations from associates happiy aud advantageous v married .'barges merely nominal. Strict secrecy. In pi.v.a t t de4 i nvelope, 5d.--Kd tor, 40, X axiib' Ccnda A •treet IrfOCiEm, W.G Just Published for two Stamps, By J. A. BARNES, M.D U.S , a Treatise entitled, HOW TO KNSUIIK HKAI rUV' A inostvalnab'e Book f r Young Men. Ou the Laws Govskning Lipw and the C'ausm, Symptoms and Yu at t.of all discat es depending on Nerreno Debility, Mrmta i. d Physical Dilpreasian, Paipitution of the ile rv. Noise in tuc head ar.d mora. Impaired Sight anti Memory. Icdigcation, Lo ftit de.A . Sent post-free nr two uta i p . Addroas i, X. B.UIN'ES, If..! . U.S. , 48, Iv BHdatevqKtu'iA.. 'i bonduR-rood. Louden, 
584 THE EXAMINER. Sept. 13, 1845 attack. The slaughter by the journeymen millers is effected with long spears, after blinding their victim by throwing flour in his eyes. Another programme an nounces the order of the national dances, the first of which will represent the dancers of the village of Aioz entering Pampeluna, according to ancient custom, accompanied b their dulclneas. Among the effigies is a bower, in whicL an allegory represents the two worlds doing homage at the feet of Spain! The Duke of Cadiz, eldest son of Don Francisco de Paula, is at Pampeluna, in command of a cavalry regiment, and apartments are preparing for the Infanta himself, who is ex pected. The hotel of the Count de Gondolin is fitted up for the Spanish Royal family, and that of the Count de Espeleta for the French Princes. These two residences have been furnished very handsomely in the ancient style with rich tapestries, particularly the latter, which has a gallery of portraits of the Spanish monarchs from Philip V to the present time. Apartments were prepared for Munoz, Duke of Rianzares, in the house of Senor Cariguiri, banker, and deputy to the Cortes for this city, but it is very doubtful if he will come, as his equivocal position would create great awkwardness in his relations with the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale. The Dukedom of Nemours possesses historical reminis cences for the Navarrese, Charles III, King of Navarre, surnamed the Noble who rebuilt the Cathedral now exist ing , having, in 1403, obtained this title and a pension from the French Crown in compensation for the loss of his here ditary domains in France. The arena for the bull-flights is a very substantial building, after the plan of the Roman amphitheatre, capable of containing upwards of ten thousand spectators. It was completed last year, being built on the site of an ancient monastery. The Court of Spain has made great efforts to appear with a splendour suitable to the ancient grandeur of the nation splendid services of plate and other valuable objects have been brought from Madrid, new liveries have been made for the servants, the handsomest of the Royal carriages have a'ready arrived, and the Queen's stud can boast of horses of extraordinary beauty. Among these are three Andalusian horses intended as presents for the Royal guests, the proportions of which are faultless. The Duke de San Carlos, to whom all these arrangements have been intrusted, has been indefatigable in his endeavours to complete them so as to do honour to the hospitality and taste of his Royal mistresses. On the morning of the 3rd inst. a review of a select por tion of the garrison and troops collected for the approach ing miliary evolutions, took place on the glacis outside the town. These troops, about five thousand in number, were composed of one battalion from each of the infantry regi ments, and a squadron from each of the cavalry. There were also on the ground six pieces of field artillery, each drawn by six mules, and the corresponding ammunition waggon by six others. The whole of these were in beauti ful order but what excited great admiration were twelve mountain guns, of elegant workmanship-the guns on the back of one mule, the carriages on another, and the ammu nition on a third. The whole of the troops were in very fine order, well clothed, and perfectly disciplined. The squadron of the Princesa Lancers was commanded by the Duke of Cadiz, and the whole review was under the orders of the Commandant-General of Pampeluna. Narvaez, who arrived the evening before, was present, but in plain clothes. About four o'clock on the 3rd the city bells announced the approach of the Sovereign, the Royal train having been descried at a distance of five miles. The living stream f oured out towards the French gate, where the Queen and nfanta arrived at five o'clock, and were received by the municipality and other local dignitaries. A pretty throng of children, gaily dressed, and dancing to the sound of the national music, strewed lavender and other odoriferous plants before the Royal procession several huge figures, in Moorish dresses, big enough to put Gog and Magog in their pockets, also marched in the Royal train the bands of the several regiments played the Royal march, while the shouts of the populace rent the air. Their Majesties alighted at the Palace of the Count de Gondolein. At eight o'clock at night the church bells struck up, and, in obedience to the signal, the inhabitants lit up their houses. The illumina tion was very handsome and very general, and consisted of lamps, lanterns, or huge wax tapers. During the day most of the houses had been adorned with curtains, or tapestries of brilliant colours. About nine o'clock the Royal carriages were in attendance, and conveyed their Majesties and the Infanta to the Palace of the Count of Espeleta, to inspect the preparations which had been made for the reception of their Royal relatives, the French princes. Both going and returning they were greeted with loud and hearty vivas by the people. The young Queen looked pale and fatigued with her journey, whilst her mother and sister seemed in the enjoyment of excellent health. General Harispe, com manding the Bayonne division of the French army, accom panied by Major de Bois-le-Comte and other officers of his staff, arrived at Pampeluna in the morning, from Tolosa. On the 4th of September, about three o'clock, the church bells announced the approach of the French Princes, who made their entrance half an hour afterwards. They came in two of the Royal carriages, one drawn by six horses, the other by the same number of mules, the coachmen, foot men, and outriders being attired in dark blue liveries, co vered with rich gold lace. They were escorted by a troop of Cuirassiers and another of Lancers. Their Royal High nesses were accompanied by the Countess d'Oraison, Lady of Honour to the Duchess de Nemours General Boyer, Aide-de-Camp to the Duke, and General Janin. They alighted at the Queen's Palace, and after paying their re spects to their Majesties and the Infanta, proceeded to the Espeleta Palace, which had been prepared for them. The people received their Royal Highnesses in perfect silence, and the same marked their entrance into, and departure from, the Queen's residence, and their entrance into their own, whilst the Queen of Spain could hardly pass near the windows without being greeted with a buzz of applause, which was converted into a loud burst of enthusiasm when she, accompanied by her mother and sister, and the Dukes de Nemours and Aumale, appeared on the balcony of the P.ilace. General Harispe and his staff were present at the Palace to compliment the Princes and Spanish Royal Family. The Queen and Infanta afterwards went to the Espeleta Palace, to visit their Royal cousins of France, and to invite them to dinner, on which occasion fifty persons partook of the Royal hospitality. The only Ministers pre sent were General Narvaez and Martinez de la Rosa. After dinner the Royal party appeared on the balcony to witness a national dance which was performed in the small square in front of the Palace. A fountain in the square was very prettily illuminated, and hope an inscription from ty#bity of Pampeluna to the Queen, POLITICAL. The Earl of Winchilsea has resigned the deputy-lieu-tenancies of the counties of Northampton, Kent, and Lin coln, and also the commission of the peace for the same counties. In his letters of resignation, which are copies of each other, the noble Lord says Regarding as I do the conduct of her Majesty's Ministers, in their late dismissal of Mr Watson, to be of a most arbitrary and unjust cha racter, I cannot subject myself to a similar treatment in the course which I may deem it my duty to pursue in advocating those great Protestant principles which are, in my estimation, beyond all earthly value. -The Lord Chancellor has directed a supersedeas for the commission of the peace to be prepared according to the noble Lord's wish. South Australia.-A Parliamentary paper has been issued, containing copies of the correspondence on the subject of the colonial land fund of South Australia. There are fifteen letters and despatches in the correspond ence. Several holders of special surveys in South Aus tralia complained, in August, 1844, to Lord Stanley, as Colonial Secretary, that they had purchased land under the 4th and 5th of Will. IV, c. 95, on the faith that the whole of the purchase-money would be applied to the giving a free passage to labouring emigrants, which pro mise the Government had not fulfilled. The reply was to the effect that South Australia having become insol vent, the resources of that settlement did not supply any means of sending out emigrants in respect of the pre vious purchases of land, and that no vote was taken of British funds for the purpose. The memorialists again urged their claims on Lord Stanley, remarking that, how ever, as individuals, they regretted the insolvency of the colony, their money was paid under the guarantee of an act of Parliament and trusted that his Lordship would bring their claims before Parliament. Lord Stanley, by his secretary Mr Hope, M.P. , repudiated the construc tion put on the act, and refused to make any application to Parliament. The holders again addressed his Lord-hip in January last, which called forth a reply without relief. In February another letter was sent by the hold ers of special surveys, in which the following passage ap pears - We beg to assure your Lordship we feel most honoured and fortified in the justice of our claims by the consideration that at one time you regarded them favour ably and we trust we may be excused expressing our ignorance of aught which may have occurred since to alter your views. Our patient endurance of delay, and our urging our claims at a period when the fulfilment of them would be most beneficial to all parties, we trust give us an increased demand for d favourable consideration. His Lordship merely referred, in answer, to his former letter. It seems that during the time the correspondence was pending Governor Grey recommended an advance of 2,000 . for the purposes of emigration, in consequence of the purchase of waste land, and by the concluding docu ment in the correspondence, bearing date the 7th of July last, Lord Stanley stated that, under all the circumstances, and adverting to the satisfactory progress of the land fund, the advarme of the 2,000 . would be made for the purposes of emigration. SOUTHWARK ELECTION. The nomination of the candidates for the representation of this borough in Parliament, in the room of the late Mr B. Wood, took place on Wednesday. After the usual preliminaries, and the respective nominations bv their friends of Sir William Molesworth, Mr Pilcher, and Mr Miall, the candidates severally addressed the electors. As the opinions of Sir William Molesworth, religious and political, have been grossly misrepresented by Mr Miall and his friends, we deem it only an act of justice to the hon. baronet to publish his eloquent and manly refu tation. As soon as he could obtain a hearing Sir William Molesworth said -Of the three candidates who aspire to the honour of re presenting you in Parliament, the lot has fallen upon me first to address you. I entreat a patient hearing whilst I endeavour, as briefly as I can, to explain my political nrin-ciples. If you approve of my principles, it will be your duty to elect me if you disapprove of them, it will be your duty to reject me. For nine years I sat and voted in the House of Commons as a Radical. To those principles I still ad here, and intend to adhere. Cheers. Are you for or are you against Radical principles ? Cheers. I will put the question more distinctly. Are you in favour of free trade ? Are you opposed to all protecting duties ? Would you ex tend your commerce-exchange your manufacture for the productions of every climate, so that your manufactures may flourish, and the labouring classes be prosperous and happy ? Do you desire a repeal of the corn laws ? Cheers. Do you wish for cheap food-for abundant food for our daily increasing population? According as you answer these questions, yes or no, so should you vote for or against me. For I have always been a free-trader. Cheers. I THE CHURCH. Defeat of Puseyism in St George's in the East.-After a struggle of two years by Messrs Leyenot and Bond, the churchwardens of St George's in the East, and the most influential and respectable part of the pa rishioners, the Rev. Bryan King, the rector of the parish, was, on Sunday last, compelled to announce publicly in the parish church that, in compliance with directions from his diocesan, the use of the surplice and the reading of the bidding prayer should be discontinued. Being sacra ment Sunday, the offertory sentences were read as a mat ter of course, but the parishioners were resolved, having gained so much, to insist on the whole of the innovations being abandoned. Enlargement of the Protestant Church at Bonn.-The 4 Rhenish Observer,' the only paper in the Protestant interest published in the Prussian dominions on the Rhine, informs us that Prince Albert has just sent 700 thalers, about 100 ., towards the enlargement of the Protestant church at Bonn. It seems that the number of Protestants has so much increased in that town that last Good Friday there was not room enough in the church even for those who were desirous to partake of the Lord's Supper. The liberality of the illustrious Prince was, therefore, well-timed, and will hasten the completion of a work the want of which had been felt even at the time of his Royal Highness's residence at the university of that town. Conference of Evangelical Ministers.-A pro posal having been made that a great meeting of evan gelical Christians, of different churches and countries, should be held in London, for the purpose of associating and concentrating the strength of an enlightened Protes tantism against the encroachment of Popery and Pusey ism, and to promote the interests of a scriptural Chris tianity, it has been thought desirable that a preliminary meeting of the various denominations in Great Britain and Ireland should be held and it has accordingly been decided that this preliminary oonference shall take place at Liverpool on the 1st of October. It is expected that 200 ministers will be present, and that the proceedings will occupy three days. Candidates for Holy Orders.-A short time since some of the bishops, in their places in the House of Lords, expressed their intention of allowing schoolmasters to become candidates for holy orders, without undergoing an university qualification. The Lord Bishop of London has recently been written to upon this subject, and the question put to him, whether he would or not allow schoolmasters to become candidates in his diocese ? His lordship replied by stating that, whatever other bishops might do, he should not depart from the ancient custom of requiring the candidates to have graduated at the universities of Oxford or Cambridge, have supported every measure calculated to extend the commerce and unshackle the industry of this country. As a staunch free-trader I should take my seat as your repre sentative in the House of Commons. Cheers. Again, are you in favour of religious liberty and equality ? Do you agree with me in thinking that neither the state nor society ought to interfere with the religious belief of any man-that all creeds, sects, and religions, that Protestants, Ca tholics, and Dissenters, Jews, and Christians, should be treated in every respect alike ? If you hold these opinions, then it is your duty to vote for me, for throughout the whole of my public and private career, in every thought, deed, and word, I have been true to the principles of religious liberty and equality. Again, would you do justice to Ire land? I have proved that I would by every vote that I have given on Irish affairs. I have proved it since I came into this borough. I might have avoided all the danger of the contest if I would have shrunk from the side of justice to Ireland. I was asked how I should have voted with re gard to the late grant to Maynooth. I might have evaded that question. I might have said I was not in Parliament when that measure was passed, that it was settled and gone by. I felt, however, that it was my duty to you honestly to state my opinion with regard to that grant, and I felt that, injustice to Ireland, I must have voted for it. For this de claration I have been violently assailed by one section of the Liberal party. My opinions remain unshaken, and for rea sons which I will shortly state. The great majority of the Irish nation have adhered to the religion of their fore fathers, and are still Catholics. The piety of those ances tors bequeathed vast property for the maintenance of the Catholic religion, and for the instruction of the Catholic priests. That property has been alienated, not to the uses of the state, nor for the benefit of the whole Irish nation, but to the support of a religion which seven-eighths of the people utterly disbelieve. As some slight compensation, perhaps, for this great wrong, the Irish Parliament granted a small sum of money, not to maintain the Irish priests, but to educate them, to render them fit for the performance of their duties. After the union of Great Britain and Ireland this grant was considered as a sort of contract it was con tinued from year to year it had become inadequate for its purpose and last year it was proposed to make it suffi cient. Now, I ask, could the House of Commons, with pro priety, have rejected such a proposal ? Would not the re fusal of this grant have been considered as tantamount to a declaration of hostility towards Ireland? Would it not have confirmed the assertion of the agitator, that there was no justice to be obtained from England? Would it not have lent force to the cry of repeal of the union ? I answer, it would. I am opposed to the repeal of the union-no one more so but then I say, do justice to Ireland-destroy her monster church-the reproach of England-and when you have done this, then, and not till then, refuse the small grant to Maynooth. These are, briefly, my opinions as a Radical upon them rests my only claim for your support. If you approve of them,-if you are in favour of free trade -if you desire a repeal of the corn laws-if you are friends to religious liberty and equality-if you are for the pro gressive reform of the institutions of your country-and, lastly, if you would do justice to Ireland, then give me your votes. But if, on the contrary, you are opposed to free trade-if you love the corn laws--if you would resist ex tension of suffrage, triennial Parliaments, and vote by bal lot-if you are in words only, but not in deeds, the friends of religious liberty and equality-and lastly, if you would offer a deadly insult to Ireland by proposing the rescinding of the grant to Maynooth,-then I am not the man fit to re present you I recommend you to select one or other of my antagonists. Now a few words with regard to those an tagonists. First, with regard to Mr Pilcher Mr Pilcher is a Tory. I say it with every respect, for he has as much right to his conscientious opinions as I have to mine. Our opinions are diametrically opposed. There is a fair up standing fight between us, which the poll of to-morrow will decide in my favour. But it is not merely on political grounds that Mr Pilcher claims your support. He lays claim to it on account of the local good he will do to the borough. In this respect Mr Pilcher far outbids me. I can only promise to attend to your parliamentary business. In deed, it would be contrary to my principles. It would seem to me to be a species of corruption to attempt to bias your votes by any promises of pecuniary benefit to yourselves, either individually or collectively. Magnificent are the promises which Mr Pilcher is reported to have made. He is reported to have said that he would maintain all the hos pitals, support all the dispensaries, and contribute to all the charities wiih which this borough abounds-that he would cleanse your borough of everything filthy-that he would build docks for all the steam vessels-that he would accom plish wonders with regard to the river Thames. Thus Mr Pilcher would buy you. Take care to use a popular ex pression that you are not sold. Now, a few words to the friends of Mr Miall, and to that gentlepian himself. Many amongst yo whose char a your opinior seemed to n from the be division that that our u enemy. I mised to reti give all the These offers on. Still I tween us. towards each of reason, and for that word of disre against your however, I a the first bio ground of a abuse. You opinions witl sincerity bee England yo shrink with excite religio inquisitor of ligious beliefcui the human race l was put to death Antipodes was b Persecuted as disl knees was compe able. Bacon am the doctrines of I Newton was accui covery of the law. against Franklin I Mt Priestley's I gered on aocou
♦ had taken Only one Prize during her Ciuize, tail'd the Lydia, of Pool which was retaken by the Captain the latter End of November. Capt. Giiffin has put fome Men on Board the Privateer, and employ'd her in gettine Knowledge of the Enemy's Harbours and Places of an' choring. Wednefday arrived the Lieutenant of his Maj fly's Ship the Advice, Capt. Smith, wijh Difpatches to the Lords of the Admiralty, withNewicf the fafe Arrival of the faid Ship at Spithead from Barbadoes he brings an Ac-counr, that his Majeily's Ship rhe Ludlow-Callle, Capt. Stevens, from Jamaica for London, having the 8th of October met with a Storm, in Lat. 31, and receiving con-Damage, was put into Englifh Hatbour in Antigua to refit. 'Tis faid the Ludlow-Callle had loll all her Mads, and had ten Feet Water in her Hold when lie put into Antigua. The News of this Man of War is very confi-derable, there having been thirty-two Guineas Infurance give upon her. Letters from Newport in the Ifleof Wight advifc, that laft Tuefday Mr. Lawrence , a Supervifor in the Etscife, and Mr. Corbet, an Jnl'peftor of the Culloms, affiflcd by fome Soldiers, feized two Veffels carrying of Run Goods wherein were tSoo Weight of Tea, 60 Half Anchors of Brandy, with fome Cambricks which wete feized and carry'd to Portfmouth after a flout Engagement between the Soldiers and the Smugglers. They write from Sittingboum, that laft Thurfday fe'n-flight a Gang of forty Smugglers were attack'd by a great Number of the Country People, and fome Soldiers, as they were carrying Wool to the Sea Side, in order to hip it for France but the Smugglers vanquiflt'd the Afliiilants, and carry'd off their Goods. Several of the Countrymen were wonnded in the Engagement Laft Tuefday Night ell down Part of an old Building in London-Houfe Garden, Aldcrfgate-Stiect, formerly the Library, when the Bifhops of this See lived bofpitably in their Palace, pmchafed for them by Biftiop Henchman. This Accident happen'd about Ten, before Mr. David Avery and bis Wife, who occupy'd that Patt, were gone to bed and were miraculoufly preferved, the Fall being within a Yard of the Fire-fide, where they fat. They write from Sali bury, that one Day laft Week an unfortunate Accident happen'd to Mr. Hollis's Son of Redbridge in the County of Hint', who being out a hooting with another young Lad of the fame Place, was by him unhappily hot through the Head. It feems they were in Purfuit of fome Wild Ducks with a Hedge between them, and both looping down, the latter fired his Piece, and the former flarting up at the fime Inllant, received the Shot in the back Part of his Head, and died on the Spot. Robb'd- Mr. White, of Brentwood, by two Foot-Pads, as he was returning from London, near the Wood beyond Waltham, of upwards of 501. Marry'd. Mr. Gladwin, an eminent Organift, to Mifs Shepherd, a Lady with a Fortune of 7000 1.-Mr. Snow den, an eminent Norwich Faflor at Stepney, to Mils Jack-ion, of Cullum-Street, a Lady with a Fortune cf jcoo 1. - The Rev. Mr. Richard Waftibourne, of Edmonton in the County of Micdtefex, to a Siller of AValhbourne, E r q of Pytc'nley in Noithamptonfliire. - Du i-flall, Efqs of St. Mary Ottery, in Devonfliire, to Mils Mary Holloway, of Bridgewater Square Mr. George Vaughan, to Mils Moulfon.- Mr. William Wiifccrforce, Son of William Wilberforcc, F.fq of Hell, to Mifs Thornton, Daughter of Robert Thornton, ll'q Dead. The Right Hon. James Hamilton, Ear? and Bsron of Abercorn, and Baron Put fly Scotch Honours and Vifcount and Baron ofStrabane in Ireland.- Thomas Ruggles, Efq an eminent Bays Factor and Clothier, re puted worth 50,000 1.- The Rev. Mr. John Bateman, Reflor of St, George's, Lincoln. Thurfday Bank Stock Books fhut. Tndia Stock 198 3 4ths. South Sea Stock Books fliut. Ditto Old Annuities 113 1 4th. Ditto New 113 1 4th. General Poft-Oflice, London, Jan. iz, 1743. Whereas the P eft-Boy, carry 111 the Norib M, !I front Nur.tins.ton to Stilton, was, Ytfterdny the 11 th hi 'ant, about Six cf the Clock in the Evening, attack'd on the Highway, at a Place call'd Stanigate-lhle, by a fugle Highwayman, who prefenled a Pijhl to the Poft-Boy's Brcaft, and carry'd off the following Bags, fir.. Durham,' Hull, Bofton, Falkingham, Lincoln, Hernrnftle, Louth, Spnhiing, Stamford, Bairn, and Peterborough. The Perfon who committed this llobbrry, is a luftt Man, and had on a large Dark Frock over his Coat, his Pace was rever'd with Black, and be rode on a Dark Sorrel Horfe, with a White Pace, and made offfor the Bigglefwade Road. 'This, therefore, is to give Notice, that whoever ft. a l apprehend and eonviP, or catife to be apprehended and ctn-v tiled, the Perfon who committed this Robbery, will be entitled to a Reward of Two Hundred Pounds, over mid above the Reward given by All of Parliament for apprehend ing of Highwaymen or if any Perfon or Pcrfom, whether Accomplice in the faid Robbery, or knowing thereof, fhall make a Difeovery, whereby the Perfon, who committed the fame, may be apprehended and brought to 'Juftice, fueh Dif-eoverer or Difcoverers will, upon Convlliion of the Party, ic inti led to the fame Reward of Two Hundred Pounds, and alfo have his Mnjefty's tnoft gracious Pardon. By Command of the Poft-Mafter-Gcncral. Geo. Shelvocs, Secretory. aA N IC R tJ P T S pet our Lafi. Edgly Smith, late of Eyre, in the County of Suffolk, Merchant, Vintner and Innholder. Benjamin Plimpton now or late of th£ Parifh of Sf. Paul Shad well, in th County ofMiddlefex, Woclcombcr, Dealer and Chapman. William Bell, late of St. JohnVSfreet, in the Pari h of St. Sepulchre, in the County of Middlefex, Dealer and Chaprrfan. Jofliua Lewis, of Newbury in the County or Eaks, Brazier and Chapman. Gooday Carter, of Great Coggeflisll, in the County cf Mex, YVccl-Fadlor, Innholder and Chapman. Ibis Day is pubHjb'd, Love the Cause and Cure of G vii zt, Or, The Innocent Murderer A New TRAGEDY. As it is a£led at the T heatre-Royal in D y xrt Lane. Primed for R. Franckun, in Rrtfei-Strcet, Covent-Garden. Price One Shilling. Ibis Day are pubHjb'd PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, From the Materials in the iiarleian Library, A Collection of the moll Authentic STATE TRACT S, During the Reigns of Queen Anne and King George I. On the mod important and interefting Suhjcfts ami Events, which occun'd within that pcti .'d vz, t. Several cu.ious Pieces re lating to the SucceJIion, and the State of Paxth-s at the Death of King William. 2. The Expediency of a Land War 3. Occafion ! Conformity. 4. The Srate of Scotland, and the Troubles appn.hcr.did from the Sons Aft ut Security. 5 The Danger of hc Church. 6. Hanover Succcifi.n. 7. The grand Conrjoveily be tween the Lords and Commons, on the Cafe of the Aylctbuiy Met,. 8. The Union of the two Kingdoms. 9. The Cafe of Gregg, a Clerk in Mr Secretary Hailey's OdLe. 10. Sacheverd's Affair. n. The Party-VaT before and after the Change of the .MinifLy. la. The Negotiations for a Peace. jj, Whig and Tory Advices, Ext ortatio s, c. to the Free holders of England. 14. On the Treaty of Gertmy-denburgh. 15. Mcftager's Negotiations. 16. Barrier Treaty. 17. Conduft of the Earls of Peterborough and Galway iu Spain. 18- Cafes of the Duke of Mail-With many other fcarceTrafts duciblc to any borough, Mr. Walpole, and Mr. Steele. 19. The Liberty of tie Prcf . 20. Treaty or Uuocht. ax Trebly of Comnic ce. as Demolition f Dunkirk. 23. Schifm 11 II. 24 F'cuibam uia the Miniftry. IS Tory and Wi g Advise to the Freehold rs of En la -c!, im mediately after tr.e Accdlton of King George. z6. Hilt . y of lbs White Staff. 17 Ir.vofives ajrai ft and Ao-poiog cs fr.r_ the -Adminift ation during the four lad Ytsr ol the Queen. iB. Cafe of tie Duke of Or mond. 29. The Reb.T.ioo. 30. The SwcdUb'Confp racy. 31.. The Septennial Bill. 32. The Dcftftiun. 32. The Peerage Bill. 34 fvr George JlyngL Exploit in ihe Aledirer ane.iu. 35. Difpuca relating to the National Debt. 36. The Harbou'g Lottery. 37. The South-Sea Calamity. 38 Cafe of the Bank Contfaft. 39. Layer's Plot. 40. Cafe of the Bifliop of Ro-chrttcr. And, 41. The Commencement of the late Oppoficion. of equal Value, though not re-gencrul H d. The whole digefted in Order of Time 5 cr, otherwTe fo difpofed, as that a whole Controverfy may be feen tr.g iher. CONDITIONS. I. This Wor'' i intended to make three Volumes i~ Fn'io, at the Price of c Guinea each Volume in Sheets and hull be printed cm a bcputiful Paper with a neat Letter II. No M icy is required but on the Delivery of the Book. III. The Wo.lt is rcidy for the Piefr, and will be put in Hand as fo as 250 are fubferibrd for. IV. Thofe Gentlemen, who are willing to encourage this V r . rk, aredefired to be fpeedy in fending their Names to any of the following Bookfcllersi R. Fr ahCKLIH. in G.vent-Gatden T.Osbor b, in G-av's-Inn J.and H. PcataEH ton , in Fleet-Street a d R. Don-slu y, in PUl niall Ibis D ty is publijifd, in a neat Pocket Vulume Price Oise Shi iing and Sixpence, The Mufe in Good Humour. Or. a Collection of 0 nvc Tales, c. from Cbaucct, Prior,, Swift, La Fontaine, IX. King, and other eminent P ets. Together with fome Original . V I z. The Cruntry 'Squire and Ills Man John. The Curious Maid. TheS lrnt Flute or the Mem ber - Speech t their Sovereign. Ha -c C.irvei's Ring 5 or a Charm againlt Cuckoldoin. The Lout iook'ng for his Heifer. Phylli ' r the Progrcfsof Love. Little Mnuths. Paulo Purgan ! and his Wife. Strcphon and Chloc or Beauty nicer mortal. The Amorous G'onm. A Riddle upon Kitty's Dream. Cnfltncs and Peter t or Cxlia at St 1. The Fair Nun or Woman an Overmatch for the Devil A beautiful young Nymph going to Bed. The Ladle or the Triple Wifll. A Paftoral Dialogue between Derrrmut a d Shclah, two iri li Lovers. A DclVription of a Lady's Dref-fing Room. A Medicine for the Ladies. The Saddle. The Fu nimre of a Woman's Miml. The Spinning-Wheel. The Dream. A Paftoral Cnurtfllip. Mclefinda's Miiforiune on the burs.ing her Smock. Fulvla, orPhyfick for the L d.'es. The Curious Wife. The Maguify .n r-GLrs. The Miller of Trompington. TheGliller. A Riddle upon SomctV.ii e. A Match for the Devil. Printed for J. Noble, at Drydcn'a Head in St. Martin' Court, near Lciccfter Fields. This is to give N O T I C E, lo all Gentlemen and Others, that YOU may have good Drugeccs, Sagathic, and Doroy Snirs made well and ftiliionable for the firft Size Men at 3 1. jos. a Suit, and the larger Size at 4 1. and Cloth Surge, com monly call'd by the Name of German Serge Saits for 1. and 4I xo.sa Suir, and Livery Suits for 4I. an 1 4I 10s. colour'd and black Cloth Suits fu 5 I. and 3 . r. s. a S'. ir. at the Two Golden Balls the upper Kni of So -.a ii.i'i.piou S re - Covcnt Garden. And Horfnun's Great Co. avt be fold c-t-ly rr.i h-. at 20 s, a pcicc, blue Cloak Ba 3 re. ly mafic .t ..c Rocklcis ready made. j. W E S T O v n At the Hand-and - Pen, o-ver- againji Water Lam in FLet-htrcet, CONTINUED to tcrch ary G ntle-man or Lady hi New? l th d of SHORT-. HAND, within SIX Weeks they writing at Home ONE Hour a Day, and coming ur fending to him for once in TWO D.ys. He alfo takes down TRIALS at LAW, ec. a d tells, 1. His SHORT-HAND GRAMMAR, jcumlly engrav'd, a d authoriz'd by Ins MajcJVy which ai i c is f to teach the Art perfectly, as is atielled at t'-e b. ginnis .g of tV.c Booh, by a great N umber of Gentlemen ot the Cle.jry, Law, lornierly taught. Price Oue Guinea and a H lf, a .d'iwo Guinea un Roy l Vlifr. ' if any Thmg feem doubtful, h t i l cx la'n it craris. 2. His Short-Hand COMMON-PRAYKR-BOGK, Pr.ccOne Pound Five Shillings. The uncommon Succefs, above forty Yearblad part, of the lb much lam'd and only true original RoyA Chymical WASH BALL, For beautifying the Face, Neck and. H mds hath in ducedcr.vimis Pcfjns, rot only ic'every Part ol I.' ud tn. but' in iiii.ny Place in ilie Country, to fell a cnuswerlcit wr.ite JvaIIj which msy prove ptcjudici l as well as inclUcfual in liuivationuf the Hue of-,, Tt picvrur as much as poBtble ar.y MiPnkesio Prejudice to nut C'.nlio we give this fpeciA N'otrce, 'I'h .t thf tti e Sore Arc now old only at Airs. Wharton was King Toy-fliop, the B-uc-Ci.at Boy near the Royal Exchange, in Cornhill, and by Air-. Lx'i'., a jViiliner, at the ftiuc Balt near the Inner Temple Ciate n Firrt-lheer, Price 1 s. each Bali, or to the dozen ♦ .at t u iViuvwancc f r U s .han z Ball's at n Time, nt 1 will tney ever b fd.lnny whtre e.fe, except Notice be tuft given iu ihcie n ver ij mc -.is of i . iliei - i.uranii realVirtuesbavcbeen fufficientlyatt Btdin aU the Years t'h..t they have been lold by Publication, and the more fo, as vh. y ate f ill more than ever ulc and aPniir'd by hotii Scxe. .£ the hciT Quality, and m'.ny Thoufar.ds of Gentry anu others, for makint the Skin fu delicately iV.ft and f mooth,as not to ho y o. iierd by any V iilh ot R' afub-.Us, C C. ofar.N Kird o Foim f- r thcle B..11 are in deed re .1 Bcauiificts nftbe Shin, by taking Driormi ie. r , a 1 cttess, Ring-Worms, A virph-w, Sun-bum, S.u.-f, ?impi s. Pit , oir Redn f f the Small pux, and keeping it of a l.. Hug u extreme Whitcuets they fonn alter red or tough Hands are admir-M'- in having the Head, ontouly giving a o -.vt exquifit SbarpnrCj to the Rtzor, but fo co .fort the Brain and Nerves, as to prevent caitS'-ingColJ. They ar? of a grateful anl plenfant Sc-nr, t i sh.Jut the lcail Grain of Mercury, and m y be eatrn lor their Safety. The moft delightful fragrant TINC'iURE for ihe B R F. A T II, T e e t n, and Gums. At once ufing makes the Ereatii nieft charmingly fine, f.rer-, aiul pieafant, ihe Tect . j-crfccily .'.liite, .lean, and btanMl.d, and is enc mu certain Cute iui ti.c licutvy in rte Guuri iu 'he World. It infalli oly p eferv? the Breath, Teeth and Gums n t eit u'moft Bea 1 y an.i Pcrfefti , if t ey are no way? diforder'd, ard if t f -ey arc, iii'nc. ia cly i 6k dc i nil tl D. eft. for the fa uc h iau'c c 1 1 fed it the i..cfV offc-fivc Breath loi-li me nip r iy ir'e ar.d eba-ming and i '• a hurt Time fu cff.clually cute , ttmt a d fa-greeable will not etu. . It 'nft ntly mik the bL kelt and moft foul Tce.h exuc-mly white ai.d delicat ly be. nnfu infaLib-Y preferves tl.i . i'ro.a ce-eaying, anil thofe a lir.le decay'd f om oecoming worlc a 'f..nrcly cu Cs the Scu vy in .he Gum , he ic ever lo inveterate, cai hn xha to g ow up to the 1 e Mh when ahuoM eaten qu tea way, n i airi'rrdly n. lueft T.fc h 10 dm rat.i.r.. tt • 10 be uied but iev. Dr p at a Time, is exceeding pltaGi.t, av.d iea7C9 a very gr' fful and de'.rftaVdt Flavour in the Al. uth I a Word, fo woft ael gh fu y performing, cadqoiekly cu-irg an il!-fccntci Heath, for iinmediatel . mzkin . t l -c 1 l.ttk A iM ft exw l i n y white, ccrta ? n y f A.M.i- p th n wber. l o c, eff c-toi 4.y oicfcrving htm fr -m rott-.rg ' rdec y ng, and tufa ! • !y vur-ii g the S. i vy n tlx Giio s, ith nu its ial i.i tkcUmvcifl , a all tne CJu-lity and principal Gentry who ule it ack.nowl' ge. It IS to b. had -nly at Mr. K .dfor Va T yfliop, ct ti'.c Roll r.d Cr' wn .Clement's Chu chyaid iu the Strand, at s. 6 d. a Bo cl', w.th Diieftiu . lie r.'iojl Fam'd and Long-experienced Chymical Drops for ASTHMA'S and CONSU M PTIONS. Tliat have been fold fo nuny Yeats, and uriih fuch uncommorr Sue-ce s .tnd Benefit to the Publick, by Air. Pai y and his Prede-ccir. r , in Bi.ai's-Head-G u r, Fieci-frtect ar.d lines Mr. Parry # Dece.ifc, h v- been and dill arc fold in London, only by Air. Read for ci. 6 A. each Vi , at bia Houle in Wliito-Ffy• r . - ■ fN.U. You tu n in juft by the Sun Tavern in Fleet-ftrcet, and its the great Comer Houfe in White-Fryar James Read in great Letters is wrote over the Door, j They ate a mnft incomparable and never-failing Mcditfiiic for the immediate Relier, and perfeft Cure of the ntoA codliroi'd AST li M A of the longeA Banding And all Sorts of CONSUMPTIONS, even wh n fo far advanced as not to he cured by any other Medicine in the Woild. For their Viraics valllv exceed any Thing that ever w.is publ.fhcd, or even known ir. the whole World in the Cure of the wont AHhmVs and Coiifumptious of all Softs, Coughs, Colds, Catarrhs, c. They inftuntly relieve the Patient in the mod fafToratinp Fit of an Aftlmia, and make a pvrfeft Cu e in n very hurt'! 1 . e tar hey gently open the P reuft, and immediately give Liberty ot B catl.mg, without Oaugei o£ takivg Cold they admitahly all y the Tick-lin , which provoke tre uent Coughing, and tal-e vIf il-.c uneafy Seniaiiun of acrimonious Humours, leanlc iht Anal Clauds, relax ihe Fibre , and thereby enlarge the Cap ciiir us ih YHA'is thua they rcguLriy and quickly cure ihe djoU uhAiuatc Afthm Tofthe lonveA Handing. 'They fpecuily and to Admiration cure all forts of Confumptionv,' Uketsofthe Lmi ts, . removing all GMlruftions ok the Lrcaft and Lungs, Hoa.AncG., Wheeling, SorCnda, Siuir'oel i f Bteathj aud all the ufuul Symptoms which attend ti c Bcgii.i.ings of a Con-fiitnr.iion and, intake® ia time, will infallibly prevent c-ne wuea fear'd. They arc a!f exceeding nutritive, and Arcngei ruinq to PcrFns of weakly Confutations, and luvr no other Vntiblc Opera tion than to occasion a gentle Breathing in the Nieht. A 'd by Parity of Rcafoiiing this moil enccUcnt AtediCine is and is well known to be the imd'i fovercign Remedy in the World foi Uio c troublcfomc fpending Coughs, which many arc fev-rely trou bled with Ni ht and Morning and alfo for the Chin-Cough and Honping-Cougii in Children, having cured Thoufaxds 1 UiAgree-abh and fo few Dtops to a Dofv, that CbiidrrO take then, with Pleafutc and without any Confinement. In Oiort, tbcle unparaUel'd Chymical Drops arc the molt infao.'He Reme.ly that eves was known, andthetcfv tc we Vilui cthc vaint Efforts of all Counterfeiters or Imitators fdr the Ailments a. ve-mf-ntionM, are allow'd to be fo by the moft Judicious an.oi.gl . cue Le trned in Phylick and confirm'd by the Urgcft fixperteuce in • t .vatc Praftice and are made public! f yr common Good •J. B. They are fen t to many Ears The ly tp i • Majclly' Coi .iea i the Weli l !i , ike. po d A low r ,. , -. v nhy the Doze -, to Tell them they will keep good • weIVcork'd,ii iuy Ciioiatc. '.v 
m THE EXAMINER. as the measure had been assumed by each as a retaliation f ir an asserted acquiescence in the aggressions of the other, it was reasonably expected that'thc occasion would havo been seized bv both, for evincing the sincerity of their professions, 3t d for restoring to the United States its legi • tiinale freedom. The instructions to our Jlinistcts, with respect to the different Belligerents, were necessarily mo dified with a reference, to their different circumstances, and to the condition annexed - by law to the executive power of suspension requiring a degree of security to our commerce, which Would not result from a repeal of the decrees of France. Instead of a pledge, therefore, for a suspension of the Embargo as to her, in case of such , a repeal, it was presnhted that a sufficient inducement might be found in other considerations, and particularly In the change priwiuCed by'a compliance with our just.de mand?, by one Belligerent, and a refusal by-the oilier, in the relations between this other and tile. United Stales. To fireat Britain, whose power on the ocean Is so ascend ant, it was deemed not inconsistent with that condition, to state, explicitly, that on Iter rescinding her Orders in re lation to the commerce rrf the United States, their trade would be opened with Iter, and remain shut to her enemy, in ease of his -failure to rescind his Decrees,also. From France no answer has beett received, nor any indication that the requisite change ill her- Decrees is contemplated. The favourable reception of the proposition to fireat Bri tain eyas-the less to be doubted, as her Orders of Council, had not imly been referred for theig vindication to an ac quiescence on the part of the United States no longer to lie pretended but as the arrangement proposed, whilst it resisted tire illegal Decrees of France, involved, moreover, substantially the precise advantages professedly aimed at, by lie British Orders.' The arrangement has neverthe less hcen rejected. e This candid and liberal experiment having thus failed, ahd no other event having occurred on which a suspension of the Embargo by the Executive was authoris ed, it necessarily remains in the extent originally giver, to it. We have the satisfaction, however, to reflect, that, in return for the privations imposed by the measure, and which ourfelloW-citizenli in general Itaye borne with pa triotism, it hashed the important effects of saying our mariners and our vast mercantile property, as well as of affording time for prosecuting the defensive and provisional measures called for by the occasion. It has demonstrated to foreign nations the moderation and firmness which govern our councils, and to pur citizens the necessity of uniting in support of the laws and the rights of their coun try and has tlnjs long frustrated those usurpations and Spoliations which, if resisted, involved war if submitted to, sacrificeda vital principle of our national independence. Under a continuance of the belligerent measures, which, in defiance of laws which consecrate the rights of neutrals, overspread the ocean with danger, it will rest with the wisdom of Congress to decide on the course best adapted to such a state of things and bringing with them, as they do, from every part of the Union, the senti ments of our. constituents, my confidence is strengthened that in forming this decision, they, will, with an unerring regard to the essential rights and interests of the nation, weigh and compare the painful alternatives out of which a choice is to be made. Npr should I do justice to the virtues which on other occasions have marked the charac ter of our fellow-citizens, if I did not cherish an equal confidence that the alternative chosen, whatever it may be, will be maintained with all the fortitude and patriot ism which the crisis ought to inspire. The documents containing the Correspondence op the subjecLof the foreign edicts against our commerce, with the instructions given to our Ministers at London and Paris, are now laid before you. The Communication made to Congress at their last Ses-siyn explained tbe posture in which tht close of thediscut-iin m ~~ 1 S- ' ' aioo relative to the attack bya British ship of War on th e frigate Chesapeake, left a subject on which the nation had manifested so honourable a sensibility. Every view of what had passed authorised a belief that immediate steps would he taken by the British fiovernmrnt for redressing a wrong, which, the more it was investigated, appeared the mote clearly to require what had not been provided for in t j e special mission. It is found that no steps have been taken for the purpose. On the contrary, it will be seen in the documents laid before you, that the inadmissible prelimi nary which obstructs the adjustment is still adhered to and, moreover, that it is now brought into connexion with the distinct and irrelative case of the Orders in C'ounril. The instructions which had been given to our Ministers at London, with a view to facilitate, if necessary, the repa ration claimed by the ITuited States, are included in the documents communicated. Our relations with the other Bowers of Europe have undergone no material changes since your last Ses sion. The important negociatiorts with Spain, w hich had boon alternately suspended and resumed, necessarily expe rience a pause, under the extraordinary and interesting crisis which distinguish bet 4 internal situation. With the Barbary Powers we continue in harmony, with the exception of an unjusstifiable proceeding of the Dey of Algiers towards our Consul to that Regency. Its character and circumstances are now laid before you, and will enable you to decide how far itunay, cither now or hereafter, call for any measures not within the limits of the Executive Authority. IVitil bur Indian neighbours the public peace has been sleadily riiaintaiiicd. Some instances of individual w rong have, as at other times, taken place, but in no wise implicating the will of -the nation. Beyond tbe Mis sissippi, the I o ways, the Sacs, and the Alibamas, have delivered up, for trial and punishment individuals from Among themselves accused of murdering citizens of the United States, 1 on' this side, the Mississippi the Creeks are exerting themselves to arrest offenders of the same kind uid the Choctaws have manifested their readiness and desifb for amicable and-just arrangements, respect ing depredatiou committed by disorderly persons of their tribe. And generally, from a conviction that we consider them as a part of ourselves, and cherish- w ith sincerity their rights and interests, the attachment nf the Indiaa tribes is gaining strength daily is extending from the nearer to tile more remote, and will amply requite us for the justice and friendship practised towards them hus bandry and household manufacture are advancing a suing them more'rapidly with the southern than the thmliern tribes, from circumstances of soil and climate .and one of the two great divisions of the Cherokee Notion have how uuder consideration, to solicit the Citizenship of tlia United States, and to be identified with us ih law's aud government, in such progressive manner as we shall think best. In consequence of the appropriations of the last Session of Congress for the security of our seaport towns and harbours, such works of defence have been erected, as seemed to be called for by the situation of the several places, their relative importance, and the scale of ex pense indicated by the amount of the appropriation. These works will chiefly b finished in the coarse of the present season, except at New York aud New Orleans, Where most was to be done and although a great pro portion of the last appropriation has been expended ua the former place, yet some further views trill be submit ted to Congress, for rendering its security entirely ade quate against naval enterprise. A view of what has bcea done at several places, and of what is proposed to be done, shall be communicated as soon as the several re ports are received. Of the gun-bontt authorised by the Act of Decem ber last, it has been thought necessary only to build 1
P 580 THE EXAMINER. A ' ' if iti 0, at tV p Rfi i exhibited on Saturday even Hie. byt i n t t e Mr'T S ,f , BriSt0 ' and of the line The ™ u- ' lhams, the superintendent o, ,! ,! ' na . chlne c °ns.st s of a large box, having the be l of I rWb S °, n0r ° U u S bell which struck like uie oeu ot a clock within this box is a niece nf clock work, precisely similar to that of an alarum, and a red lamp f nights and from the box, which is?n-ended to be fixed to the nearest carriage to the engine guard Br r eed °l, Vei the roofs of ,he various carriages to the guard s box, who, upon perceiving any signal of danger or 1°. IT!? ° ' 16 llnes ' has on, y t0 P ul1 tlle cord, and the large bell is instantiv rumt. nmi Lo rod iom n ... Sept. 13, 184 j i . ~ v ' ® aa ulu y lu P U1 ' me coru, and the arge bell is instantly rung, and the red lamp shown if at a large board, with the word ' Stop upon it, flies at the eilffinp-drivpr'a l.cl mght, or a u alu , lU e wora ■ iop • upon it, flies up, so that the engine-driver's attention is attracted both by sight and sound to the impending danger. The model was highly approved of by several scientific persons who viewed it, and is to be shown to Mr Hudson on Wednesday next, on the occasion of his visiting Bristol. It is a very praiseworthy thing in Mr Williams to en deavour to give practical shape to the recent suggestions of Count d'Orsayj but it is surely very simple and not very ingenious, to claim as his own invention what so manifestly belongs to another. THE LITERARY EXAMINER. 1 wo Letters on Southern Slavery. Addressed to Thomas Clarkson, Esq. By J. H. Hammond. Columbia, United States. A Planter and Slave-Otvner hailing from a place called Silver Bluff in which we fancy something so expressive of the gentleman th it we can hardly imagine him to be more aptly located, unless indeed it were at Brazen Bluff, which might be better still finds that having abundant leisure it will be a recreation to him to write a couple of letters to Thomas Clarkson. Accordingly, in some spare intervals of Julep, Cocktail, Moral 'Suasion and the like, and with the flavour of these strong drinks rather hot upon him, he goes a-head at a pace which we believe is familiarly compared in his own country to greased lightning and shows that Slavery, as now existing in America, is a sacred, holy, blessed institution expressly founded and commanded by Almighty God, and not to be disputed but by infidels and blasphemers. The gates of Heaven are barred, says the Ordinary to Jonathan Wild, against all revilers of the clergy. They are barred, and double-locked, and bolted, says religious Hammond, against all revilers of Slavery. It will be immediately seen that J. H. Hammond is a pious man. Of his spiritual sprinkling, as Mrs Cole calls it, Slavery has been the precious instrument. American Slavery is to Hammond what precious Mr Squintem was to Mrs Cole. But for it, he might have been tossing in the sea of sin, like a ship, without rudder or compass might have struck against the rocks of reprobation and have been quite swallowed up in the whirlpool of despair. But happily for him, his lot was cast in Carolina so he buys, and sells, and breeds, and flogs, and maims, and does the will of his Father which is in Heaven. Abolition is impossible, says he. There is a God who rules this world-All-Powerful-Far-see ing. He does not permit His creatures to foil His designs. Slavery in all its beautiful forms is His design. Therefore, the Clarksons fail. Therefore, the Hammonds triumph. We accept the Bible terms, says Hammond, as the definition of our Slavery, and its precepts as the guide of our conduct. We desire nothing more. Even the right to 'buffet,' which is esteemed so shocking, finds its express licence in the Gospel.--1 Peter, ii, 20. And is piously and religiously recognised in this part of the Law of North Carolina, which happens to lie ready to our hand. Provided always, this act an act for pretending to make the wilful slaughter of a slave, murder shall not extend to the person killing a slave outlawed by virtue of any act of assembly of this State, or to any slave in the act of resistance to his lawful owner, or to any slave dying under moderate correction !-as adminis tered according to the Gospel of 1 Peter, ii, 20, of course. It appears that the Scriptural directions, on the head of the personal disfiguremeut of slaves, are very precise indeed. For, says Hammond, Goct directs the Hebrews to bore holes in the ears of their brothers to mark them.-Ex. xxi, 6. The ear is therefore, with these new children of Israel, a very favourite place in which to disfigure slaves. Brought to jail, John. Left ear cropt.'' Taken up, a negro man. Is very much scarred about the ear and body, and has the left ear bit off. Ran away, a negro boy, Jack. Has a small crop out of his left ear. Ran away, Joe Dennis. Has a small notch in one of his ears. Ran away, juau, I voiw. Has a small piece cut out of the ■'yf,p ofjfarfh Jf-T rhese are some of the adver-. ti ments emanating from bereaved slaveholders, jj V tjvhick were republished by Mr Dickens-that impure p fountain, as Hammond calls him. It is gratifying to L observe the close adherence to the text, Ex. xxi, G aud to know how diligently these good people act up to the very letter of their Bibles. Who, after this, can challenge this most pious writer, when he adds-I think, then, I may safely conclude, and I firmly be lieve, that American Slavery is. not only not a sin, but espe cially commanded by God through Moses, and approved by Christ through His apostles 1 An Institution, founded and approved on such authority, cannot fail to be a perfect heaven on earth. Our slaves are the happiest three millions of human beings on whom the sun shines. Into their Eden is coming Satan in the guise of an abolitionist. Nor can it fail to be again and again confirmed in Holy Writ, as thus the italics being Ham. mond's own. At the hazard of fatiguing you by repetition, I will again refer you to the ordinances of the Scriptures. Innu merable instances might be quoted where God has given and commanded men to assume dominion over their fellow men. But one will suffice. In the 25th chapter of Levi ticus, you will find Domestic Slavery-precisely suck as is maintained at this day in these States-ordained and esta blished by God, in language which I defy you to pervert so as to leave a doubt on any honest mind that this Institution was founded by Him, and decreed to be perpetual. Or thus In the time of Christ it was usual for masters to put their slaves to death on the slightest provocation. They even killed and cut them up to feed their fishes. He was undoubtedly aware of these things, as well as of the law and commandment I have quoted. He could only have been restrained from denouncing them, as he did the ' lex talionis, because he knew that, in despite of these barba rities, the Institution of Slavery was at the bottom a sound and wholesome as well as lawful one. We have no doubt in our own mind, now, that the miraculous draught of fishes, and the few small fishes that were the subject of the Miracle, had all been fed on slaves and that they were especially selected by the Divine Preacher of the Sermon on the Mount, by reason of their sound and whole some fattening. But Slavery in America is not only surrounded by the halo of religion, it appears it is embellished with a poetry peculiar to itself. Our patriarchal scheme of domestic servitude is indeed well calculated to awaken the higher and finer feelings of our nature. It is not wanting in its enthusiasm and its poetry. The relations of the most beloved and honoured chief, and the most faithful and admiring subjects, which from the time of Homer have been the theme of song, are frigid and unfelt compared with those existing between the master and his slaves-who served his father, and rocked his cradle, or have been born in his house-hold, and look forward to serve his children-who have been through life the props of his fortune, and the objects of his care-who have partaken of his griefs, and looked to him for comfort in their own-whose sickness he has so often watched over and relieved-whose holidays he has so often made joyous by his bounties and his presence for whose welfare when absent his anxious solicitude never ceases, and whose hearty and affectionate greetings never fail to welcome him home. How strange it is how striking an example of the perversity of human nature-of black human nature, at all events that from all this Homeric poetry these happiest human beings on whom the sun shines in its course will run away perpetually! filling the newspapers in the Slave States, so surely as their publication days come round, with adver tisements descriptive of their gashed and rotten persons, at which the wicked stomachs of infidels sicken, and against which the whole soul of man rebels! The God-appointed owners are ' the fathers ' of the slaves ' their shepherds ' everything that is Arcadian, patriarchal, and protective -Hammond says a thousand times. But mark the sudden descent from the Cross the rapid fall from Heaven to Earth the flying off of Mrs Cole, at a tangent, from Squintem to the black-eyed girl of Rosemary lane which is revealed in the following short para graph. The only honest one in fifty pages. Nay, supposing that we were all convinced, and thought of slavery precisely as you do, at what era of 1 moral 'sua sion ' do you imagine you could prevail on us to give up a thousand millions of dollars in the value of our slaves, and a thousand millions of dollars more in the depreciation of our lands, in consequence of the want of labourers to culti vate them ? Consider were ever any people, civilized or savage, persuaded by any argument, Human or Divine, to surrender voluntarily two thousand millions of dollars ? Even Pious Hammond's Piety comes down to dollars. Come ! Buy us oft', says Hammond and we'Jl soon accommodate our Bibles to the bargain. You shall have them, in, if you will only buy us. Yet Hammond thinks that when a base dollar bears a blasphemous presentment of the author of all goodness on its front, it will be taken for celes tial coin, and will have your true angelic ring The Devil is never so simple as when he quotes Scripture for his own ends. Hammond defies public opinion. As for the suggestion, to exclude slaveholders from your London clubs, says he, we scout it. Many of us, indeed, do go to London, and we have seen your breed of gawky Lords both there and here -he seems to have contemplated the breed with a true dealer's eye, by the way - but it never en tered into our conception to look on them as bet ter than ourselves. Nor can we be annoyed by the ridiculous airs of such upstarts as your O'Con nells, Ritchies, Macaulays, and the like. But, oh Godlike-Hammond, we can be annoyed -we can be made very restless and uneasy in our slave-poetry-surrounded beds-by the idea of any foreign nation being so lost to every sentiment of civilized humanity as to attempt to erect amon us the standard of revolt, or to invade us with Black Troops, for the base and barbarous purpose of stirring up servile war. And when that dread ful hour of retribution shall arise-as come it must one day from some dark quarter, if men like you perpetuate this system of atrocious infamy and wrong, this scandal to the truth and justice of mankind-may some scant grain of truth among the monstrous distortions of it which are unblush-ingly put forth to shield the crime of trafficking in human life and liberty some grateful recollection in the breast of an old slave for some old momen tary kindness done preserve the doer from that Red Sea in which the host of charioteers whose cars are dragged by slaves through a false land assuming to be free, shall surely vanish from the earth! Not to-day, O Lord! O not to-day, but in the fulness of their blind resistance to the dictates of Humanity and Right in the noontide of their outrageous prostitution of the names of Liberty and of Religion raise up thine instruments of vengeance from among the lashed and miser able beings crouching at their feet, and strike them down with the accumulated wrath of Gene rations 1 There is no effort that any abolitionist Society in any part of the world could make, that would serve the cause qf abolition half so well as the wide dissemination of such pamphlets as this. They should be reprinted by scores of thousands. Their incredible audacity, and their miserable fee bleness, are means more potent towards the great end than any that ingenuity could devise. Journals of Expeditions of Discovery into Central Australia, and Overland from Adelaide to King George's Sound. By Edward John Eyre, Resi dent Magistrate, Murray River. Two vols. Boone. These expeditions were made in 1840 and '41, but the author's subsequent official employments in South Australia delayed the publication of his book. The greater part of the second volume is devoted to an acc rnnt of the Manners and Cus toms of the Aborigines, and of the state of their relations with Europeans. In undertaking his expeditions into the northern interior of Australia Central Australia, by the way, he cannot be said to have penetrated , Mr Eyre represented the general body of colonists, aud took part in the pecuniary as well as personal risk but received the general sanction of the Government, and some particular aids from them. The hope was that these expeditions might lead to the discovery of a good country, or at any rate open an available route across the Continent. In both points anticipation failed and the actual re sult is as dreary as can be well imagined. Mr Eyre discovered no important rivers, laid open no fertile regions for future colonization. He found nothing but a sterile and desolate wilderness. Through this he toiled for more than twelve months, in the midst of dangers and sufferings which proved fatal to three of his small party. These appear to have been in deed appalling. Their supplies were exhausted they had to kill and eat their horses and but for a lucky accident at last, must surely have perished. His narrative has the interest of a sturdy and gal lant perseverance, unrewarded but by the sense of duty interest of any other kind it has necessarily little. But this is much in itself. Mr Eyre writes with the plain unaffected earnestness of the best of the old travellers. It is not to be omitted, be sides, that several important geographical ob servations were made and that Mr Eyre's failure suggested schemes for success in other direc tions. Naturally, he is not sanguine as to these but he speaks with warm enthusiasm of the effort at present in progress by Captain Sturt, to lift the veil from that still mysterious interior, which he failed himself to raise. It is a year since Captain Sturt set out, and, by communications since received from him, it would appear that he is sanguine of having realized the long hoped-for sea, and of having at last found a key to the centre of the continent. A brief extract will show the general character of Mr Eyre's narrative, and the sufferings far from the most desperate of his party. March 9.-Moving on early we passed through a simi lar country to that we had belore traversed but there was more of the lea-tree scrub, which made our travelling more difficult and fatiguing. This kind of scrub, which is dif ferent from any I had seen before, is a low bush running along the ground, with very thick and crooked roots and branches, and forming a close matted and harassing obstacle to the traveller. The sheep and horses got very tired, from having to lift their legs so high to clear it every step they took. To the westward we found the country rising as we advanced, and the cliffs becoming higher After travelling twenty-five miles we hailed for an hour or two to rest the sheep and horses, feeding was out oi the ques tion, for they were loo much in want of water to attempt to at the drj down to re however fe In an hour them, and on by mot native path followed do to water, render our onwards wt hole of linit Q uantity of rop. Glo eight miles were comp fatigue. Tl poor boy w upon his h walked me my eyes we all around n ting entang blow across passage of I about ninet hoped that 1 tied up the I a fire, or evi eur clvea on asleep. March momentwill ever fast unpromi that the whol or an altern Incidental are many illui Lyre, as we b years' exper
♦ power to break them, whenever be fhall tliir.lt proper, are ridiculous fir with . Prince, who is guiced rather by Ambition or Intetell than by Jullice and-Moderation, they can never he binding and with o e cf a d.fterent Cha-rafter, they are nccdlefs the.or.c will not be lellrain'd by them, and the other will aft by the Rules of Equity, and tumult the Good ot his People without them. Hence, it is evident, that the Enghjb, in the Time ol the Norman Ij.Vttfiori aie ro nunc to be i x l with Folly foi not infill ing on Terms with a Prince lutroutided by a powerful and victorious Amty, than we to be applauded lor our Pre caution', had we had the Misfortune of fettling tlie Cruv. n cn a Prince,' who would have nv-de his own Will the Rule of his Actions, fwce Hilloty fhews that Parliaments have been puichalcd, who were icady to give into every Me fuse agreeable to a Court conlequently a Standing Army might be granted to pievent Invafions, however gioundlets the Pretence ■ which would enable luch a Sove-nign to treat all Conditions with Contempt, and luch as flrould dare to mention them with Severity. 1 am, SIR, See. the Lefgees, with art Army of 40,edo Men. n, n4a T Tfr.nli Tan ral'# This Dry are publijh'd. In One Volume in Oliavo, REMARKS on the History of ENG.LAND. Jv HUMPHREY OLDCASTLE, E q Primed for R. Prancklin, in Ruffil Street, Covent-Garden. VV here may be had, A Dissertation upon Parties. Dedicated to the Right lion. Sir Robert Walpole. N AFFAIRS. F G R E I G Turin, 'December 251. Ycftctdiy Admiral Mathews ar rived here, who was immediately conducted to the King's Piel'eiicc, by whom he was tcccived wih the utmoll Di fiinftion -and, after a very long Audience, had a Con ference, which lallcd fcvcral.Hours, with the M. de Or-ir.es. ft is laid his Excellency would remain here two or rhrceD.tys and that tire Gccsfiun of his Journey is the lrigluy Armament at Toulon, which is believed to be egiinit the Dominions of the King cur Sovereign. For this Pvcalon, all imaginable Precautions are taking to put both our Country, and our Army, into the belbjdituation pnflible, by fortifying all our Maritime ri.ee-,. by adding a Battalion to moll of our Regiments of Foot, and nego dating a Body of Forces from a ceitain Foreign Power, wricli arc tpeedily to enter into his Majclly's Service. Vienna, January 1. M. Lanzirfki, the Ruffian Mi rtiilcr, has been olten at Court of late, and, for the lail Time, this Morning when he made a peremptory De claration, That the Czarina, hisMiltres, expeCtcd a luit-able Satisfeftion on the Conduft of the Marquis de Botta, and that immediately. We are life more furprized at this becaufe our Gazefes had inform'd us, that the Af fair was feme Way adjulled which, however, is fo far from being true, that, it is laid, we hall be obliged to de-ilre the Intcrpofuion of his Briiannick Majclly, in older To bring it in n any Train of Accommodation. Franefort, January 8. 'I he Miniller cf the Erreflinc, Or the Ducal, Houte of Saxony, has enter'd a Prr.telt heie, againti the Elcft.-r Palatine's continuing in tile Pofl'ef-fion of the Dutchie? of Bergues and Juliers. The Mar quis Pallavhini, Miniller fiorn the Rcpublick of Genoa, has prclentcd a Memorial to the Dyct, conce.ived in the tttoft pjthetick Terms by which he demands' the Pro-teftion of the Empire, againtt tile Contrafting Parties in the iate Treaty of Worms, whciein an Article is in-ferted, for depriving the Rcpublick cf the Matquifats of Final which is a Fief of the Empire, and of which they have received the Invelliture from the Empire. We ate told, that the Court of Vienna inlilts, that the Repubbck has no Right whitfoever to trouble the Dyet on this Qc Cafton becaufe theie was a Claufe in the InArument, by which the larc Emperor difpofed of this Marquifate to the Republic! , rclerving a Power of Redemption and that it b of little or no Conlequence to the Empire, whether that Fief remains in the Poficfiian of the Genoefe, or is trans-ierv'd to the King of Sardinia. Manbeim, Januaty 6. According to our lad Advices from- AHace, the French are in the uttnoft Apprehenftons on account that the Rhine begins to freeze and they very ifi'-ch dcubt, whether the Httfiars will not take the firll Opportunity of paffing it, and ravaging all the Country on the other Side. We have lately certain Advice front Vienna, that the Queen of Hungary has declared, flic is as well dilpofed to Peace as can be wiflt'd but that it is intpoffible for her to admit of any Treaty but upon this 3ali- that a rcaibnaule Equivalent be given her for pall L Rvs, and a Itiflicient Secutfty for the Time to come. We apprehend from this Declaration, that a general Peace S not lo near as we could wifh on the con tray, we very much lear, that the Flames of Wat will fliortly break out again in Germany. Extend! of a Letter from Conft'antir.ofle, dated ibt zotb of November, 1743. • We have had the good iY.- . s of Moful's being fafe, md cxpi more of gicv.ei Conlequence for the Let-oees have taken Genge, Teffl - in GcO gia, with the Province of She. van, and its C-.pttal Shatnack ai d Der-bent, m • he Name of the josi.-g'.Shah, that took Refug in fiitkev and they ate i.iug to Tauris, which is lie 11 htd.i.ill, u itete the Shah girt with the Sword of tlie State, and the Tutka fend a gicat deal of Money to t . f ... j .. , r _, It is fald, this made 1 lamas Xouli Kan rai'e the Siege of Kloful, to prevent the Cotonation at Erdibiil and-his March was fo precipitate, that he Bung his heavy Cannon into the Tygris. Extra!?, of a Letter frern Brujfels, January 9, N. S. The Fiencb Court is diavving luch great Nnmbers of Troops towards our Frontier.', that there is not room enough for them in the llrong Towns fo that great Part of them ate obligtd to Canton. Advice is come that a Detachment of French Huf-ftrs have committed Holiilities at Chirnai on our Frontiers. The Government is drawing up a Circumstantial Ac count of this Affair, fn order to fend it to Vienna, and-fomc other Courts. P. S. A Report is juft fpread, that a Body of French Troops have furrounded and taken Prifoners 300 Huflais, ho were going to St. Hubert, in the Dutchy of Lux embourg. LONDON. The Affair of the EaJ? Drawn Ticket ht the Lottery makes a great Nolle in Town, the Cale being thus. On Thuriday laft Number 11,053 was drawn, at Guildhall, a Prixe of tool., and rs being the Lnjl Drawn Ticket was deflated there as entitled to icoo 1. more or fuch, and fo was piined in the Paper of Prizes, by Order of the Com-miffi.tncrs. After the Wheels were carry'd from Guild hall to Whitehall, and there open'd, a Ticket, Number 72,148, waslound in the Wheel A- r and being the next Ticket alter all the Prizes were drawn, has been declared by the Commiffiouets as entitled to the 10001. as the Lajl Drawn Ticket. - Qucere, Which of the Com-miiiioners Publications is to Hand Good, the firft fiom Guild ii all, or the fecond from Whitehall ? The Aft of Parliament direfts. that the Lottery fltould be publicity drawn at Guildhall Whitehall is Good E Square, Whether a Dratoeng at An exalt Lilt of the Breft Squadrons. Ships. Commanders. Guns. Men. Le SuperLe M-. de Rcqtiefeuille, Com mander in Chief 76 600 Le Neptune de Camilly, Commcdi 74-600 Le Jutl de Netnond 74 580 Le Lis FF.pinay 70 560 Le Fk-uron de. Roche 64 500 L'Elizabeth de Fouilleufe 6 4 500 Le St. L'-'uis de Soligni 60 480 Le Triton de Gttet 54 400 Le Mercuie de la Motte 5 6 400 La Venu Dacher 26 200 Second Squada Clue de Beaufremont de Bcaurepair Guns. Men. 74 600 hat the Court of France has lately given Orders for ful'pcnding the V orks of Dunkirk and has like wife taken fome other Steps, that do not feem to fpeak an Averfion to Peace. They wiite from Peterfburgh, that the Emprefs has or der'd all her Forces to be compleated without delay • and has alfo declared, that in calc the Differences between the Courts of Sweden and Denmark are not accommodated be fore Spring, fhe fhall be obliged to aft in fuch a Manner as nuv be malt effectual for the Support of her Allies. From Dielden they write, that Preparations are making for the King's Journey into Poland but that the Day of his Departure having been from time to time put off, it is now believed that he will not fetout before March though it is certain, his Prelence.. was never, more neceffary in that Kingdom. The lame Letters fay, that they have certain Intelligence froin Warl.iw of the -Death of Prince Lnbomirfki, of a fecond Fit of an Apoplexy, brought upaa him through Giief, that a Dilpute about dancing with his Daughtei hou'd create fuch Animoftty between Count Tario and Count Poniatowfla, as is likely ter prove fatal to the Peace of Poland.. tetters from 6fient in Flanders mention, that af Spotted Fever rages there, and carries off abundance of People, and that their Hofpitals are quite full. Count Colercdo is return'd fiom Vienna into Italy, with Direftions to Prince Lobkowitz to piofccute, with out Delay, the Scheme he has concerted w ith his Sar dinian Majelly for the carrying on the War in that Country. According to Advices from Paris, his Mod Chriflian Majclly declared a few Days ago, that there is to be a Congrcfs, but they don't tell us how foon however, they begin alieady to talk of a Sufpenfton of Arms. The Mar quis dc Fcnelon is to go back forthwith to the Hague, and relume his former Funftion there. The Spanifh Ambaffa-dor at Franefort, who has been for forne time pall at the French Court, has taken his Leave of the Moll Chriflian King. The French and Spanifh Squadrons at Toulon are not to fet Sail till towards the End of February. A Treaty of Marriage is concluded between his Royal Highnefs William Duke of Cumberland, and her Royal Highnefs the Princefs Louifa of Denmark. Some Private Letters from Vienna fay, that the Mar quis de Botta is fuddenly become Invifible. His Imperial Majclly has taken a Refolution, to ereft the Landgravate of Hefl'e-CafTel into a tenth Elaftorate. We hear that a Petition will faon be prefented to the-Houfe of Commons by the Merchants, for a Bill to en able them to build an Hofpital at Poplar, for Sailors vvora out or difabled in their Setv'.ce. We hear from Ireland, that the Hon. James Anne fly, Efq having petition'd his-Majclly for the Titles of Baron-Ait ham, and Vifcount Valentia, in that Kingdom, hij Majelly had refert'd the fame to the Prime Serjeant, and Solicitor General of Iicland, to enquire into the fame and report their Opinion and they having reported in Favour of the Petitioner, the Petition, Report, Sec. were refeir'd to the Houfe of Lords there who have adjourn'd the Con-ftderation. thetcof for fome Time ■ Lord Nettctvil's Trial for Murder being appointed for the 18th Ir.llant. Monday an Order was iffued out from the War-Office for draughting 8ooo Troops, now in England, to be fent, with all Expedition, to Germany, to fill up the Vacancies of the Brittfh Ttoops abroad. The fame Day an Order was iffued out from the Board of Ordnance for 8000 Mufkets, with Brits, Balls, c. anfwerable, to be hipp'd immediately for Germany, for the Ufe of his Majelly's Forces. The Right Hon. Henry Pelham, Efq Firft-Lord Com-miffioner of the Treafury, c. has appointed Mr. Le-Borg and Mr. Peter Clatk to be Meffengcrs to the Trea fury. Sheriffs appointed for the Tear enfuing-. Bedfordjhire, Richard Browne, ofEggir.ton, Efq Berkjbire, Thomas Head, of Largley, Efq Bueiingbamjhire, Rifley Rifle -, of Chetwood, F.fqr Cambridge and Huntingdon, Thomas Watfon Ward,. Elqi Chtjbire, Sir Peter Warbtuton, of Arley, Bart. Cumberland, Gcrom Tuilie, of Catlifle, Efq Derbyjhire, Poltponed.' Devonjhire, Pollpored. Dorfrtjbire, James Frampton, of Moreton, Elq EJfiX, Potlponed. Ghuccjlcrjhire, Thomas Sntl , of Upton St. Leonard's, Efqv Here ord hire, William B.-ydges, of Tiberton, Efq HertforAJkire, Richard Chafe, of Much Hadliam, Efq, Kr ir, Thomas Hodfdon, of Lewifham, Efq Leicejlerfuire, John Ayrc, E q Lincolnjbire, Henry Herring, E'q Monmoutbfbire, James Tudor Morgan, of Largattock L'nj goed, Efq Noifo i, Peter Baret, of Iorftesd, E q Nerthamptonjbire, George De Vail, Elq Northumberland, Poftponed. Nottingbamjbire, Richard Brown, of Gunthorp, E'q Oxfordjhire, Rowland Larey, E r q Rutlavdjbire, Henry Shield, Elq Shropjbire, William Taylcur, of Shrewfbury, Efq Somcrfitjbire, Edward Clark, of Chipleigh, E q Southampton, Edward Worfley, of Galcombe in the I fie of Wight, Efq Stafferdjbire, Thomas Webb, of Blakenell, Efq Suffolk, Robert Lemon, ofWelthow, Elq Surrey, Elias Bird, of Rotherhithe, Efq Sujfex, Poftponed. Wa'wiekjbire, Sir Theophilus Biddulph, Bart. Wiltfinre, John Walters, of Titherley, Efq VVoreefterJbire, Poftponed. Yorkjhire, Poftponed. SOUTH-WALES.. Breton, Poftponed. Cardigan, Charles Gwyne, of Monachty, Efq Carmarthen, Lewis Price, of Glanyranell, Efq Glamorgan, Poftponed. Pembroke, William Jones, of Lether, Efq Radnor, Poftponed. NO-RTH-WALES. Anglefea, Richard Hughes, of Callellor, Efq Carnarvon, William Brynkcr the Younger, of Brynker, Efq Denbigh, Edward Jones, of Ddole, Efq Flinty Robert Davies, ofGwyfanney, Efq Merioneth, William Lewis Amvyll, ofBotallog, Efq Montgomery, Thomas Foulkes,. of Penthryn, Efq On the 1 ith of laft Month his Majefty's Ship the Caprain, commanded by Capt. Griffin, being on a Ctuize, met with, and took a Spanifh Privateer of St. Sebaltian, , ' c C.'uns and 66 Men, call'd the St. Antonio. S
-EXETER FLYING THE EVENING POST' BUSINESS GUIDE. rA LOAU, JOHN, Decorator. Sign 3L Pointer, and Glazier, Museum B c D c E 1 Writer Hqpse Gandy-street, Exeter, B RER and DRIFFIELD, STAINED GLASS WORKS. MAKERS of ORNAU8N I'AL LEADED GLAZING, Bartholomew street, Eieter. Special terms to builders ► DON, J. E and SON, PURVEYORS, 5. Bast Gate, Exeter, supplies the best quality meatat moderate prices. Families waitedon daily for orders. Telephone No. 137. ICKPORD. M..2.B mpfylde-street. P03T-ING and JOB-MASTER, FUNERAL CARRIAGE PROPRIETOR. The New Exenian Glass-pannelled Hearse. Fashion able Wedding Carriages, Phmtons, Dog Carts. Breaks, fce. Bedford Mews, Bed-ford-circus. C -ANN, Mr . S., Dealer in all kinds of LADI8S and GENTLEMEN'S LEFT, OFF WEARING APPAREL, c., -5., 14-The Mint, Fore-street, Exeter, Ladies waited on at their Residence in Town or Country. Post Office Orders sent im mediately on receipt of parcels. C HKDLKY. W.. LITHOGRAPHIC and OOPPER-PLATB PRINTER, 11 and 12, South-street, Exeter. Relief stamping neatly executed. Trade work quickly done. V5NNEY, E. and Co.. High-class PHOTO-U GRAPHIC ARTISTS, 21, Sidwoll-street, Exeter. Studio a few doors above Bpn Marche, on the left hand side. Specialities Life-size Enlargements. The Photos for style, finish, and permanence are n-eq nailed. kORRINGTON, H., London Honae. High-street. Exeter, TAILOR and BREECHES MAKER, HOSIER, and HATTER. Highest class goods at lowest possible prices. School outfits. Best value in West of England. E ASTON, J. and SON, GRANITE MEP.-CHANTS. STATUARIES ft GENERAL STONE MASON8, Northernhay-streot, Exeter. 'DWARDS, J. K. and SON, CARVERS, GILDERS, PICTURE - FRAME and LOOKING-GLASSMANUFAOTURERS, 52, South-atreet, Exeter. Old frames re-gilt. Drawings neatly mounted. Established 1844. E NDACOTT, G 17, Sidwell-street, Exeter, OUTFITTER, CLOTHIER, DEALER in LADIES' and GENTLEMEN'S WARD ROBES. A large assortment always on hand. Prompt cash given for parcels. Conn fry letters strictly attended to. Established over 50 years. lOURACRBS, E. O., Established 1813, CUTLER, SURGICAL INSTRUMENT MAKER, and OFJHCIAN. Cutlery ground and repairs executed on the premises daily, 2 South-street, Exeter. Prioe list free on application. Look at the top of leader column in Saturday's Flying Fort. nATEK, A. E 13, South-street, Exeter. t X Best and cheapest for China, Glass, and Earthenware. Publicans Measured Ware V.R. SJTEATH, B. A SON. GENERAL II BUILDERS ft UNDERTAKERS. Work shops - Cheeke-street. Residence - St. Sidwell's Avenne, Well-street, Exeter. Estimates given. GERRBD, THE CHAMPION WEST OF ENGLAND MEDICAL HERBALIST, Thrift Cottage, No. 1, New North-road. Consultations free. Established 58 years. L OCK, WM.,8 and 9 Summerland-street, Exeter, ANTIQUE FURNITURE DEALER, Bailiff under the Law of Distress Amendment Act Bookseller, House Agent. Rent and debts collected. L isle, w. r., watchmaker, JEWELLER, and SILVER-SMITH, 179, Fore-street, Exeter. Established 1845. An extensive and varied stock of Gold and Silver Watches and Jewellery, Clocksand Electro Plate at lowest possible prioes Speciality-genuine English Levers at £3 3 , Waterbary Watch Agent. M ORGAN'S DAIRY. Established over 100 years. Families waited on daily. Pare unmanufactured cows' milk, cream, butter, eggs, poultry, rabbils to order, ftc., warranted. Hampers packed and sent to nil parts. Address 102, Sidwcll-straet, Exeter. ft ALLING, JAS. F., late John A. Bowden, .-• iw Gas, Water, and Sanitary Engineer, Plumber, Zinc Worker, Brass Finisher, Bell Hanger, Smith, Ac., 20, Magdalen-streot, Exeter. Brass work of every description restored equal to new. Gas fittings. A choice assortment of modern lamps kept in stock, French Colza Oil, Alexandra, Chrystaline, and other oils of the finest quality. ENT ON, M., CHINA, GLASS, and EARTHENWARE DEALER, 81, South-street, opposite the Catholic Church. Entirely new Stock. Large consignment of ehoxq and nrettv Tea Sets. He Jakb Staintos, DbcUased. rVTOTICE is Hereby Given that all Creditors _i. x and other persons having ar.y claims or sdsmands against the estate of Jane Staiutcn, late of Sidbury, in the County of Devon, spinster, deceased who died on the 6th day of November, 1894,1 are requested to send particulars of their claims to us, the uudersigned solicitors, for the executrix of the Will of the deceased. Dated Sidmouth, 3rd day of December, 1894. RADFORD AND ORCHARD. Solicitors for the said Executrix. POST, SATURDAY DECEMBER 8 U ' •• -•qanew pi SON ROYAL PUBLIC ROOMS, Unreserved Sale of useful Modern and Antique Furniture, comprising handsome inlaid walnut centre table, walnut drawing-room suite, walnut bureau, double-barrel gun with a new pair of spare barrels, haudsome dressing case with plated fittings, console tables, pier glasses, cottage piano, musical box, chairs, tables, tricycle in good order, the Handy 6ewing machine, c. For further particulars see posters. The whole to be Sold by Auction by THOMPSON, RIPPON AND CO. O N Tuesday, December 11th, at 11.39 o'clock. Auction Offices. Exf ter. P J. yi S IDWELL-bTREET. -Commanding business premises to Let, with spacious double-fronted shop at a greatly teduced rental, and especially suitable for and presenting a good opening to draper, grocer, boot maker, c. Rent £89.-To view apply Thompson, Rippon, and C , 22, Gandy-street, Exeter. J? WILL Purchase a desirable brick-9 built Villa Residence in Pennsyl vania, with every modern convenience and with vacant possession. Rental value £24 a year. Must be sold to close accounts. £250 can remain at 4J per cent interest -Apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street, Exeter. T O Market Gardeners and Others.-To be sold in separate Lots, two fields of about four acres and six actes respectively within one mile of Exeter, both highly productive and fertile, warm and early, facing south and offonng capital sites the erection of dwelling houses. -Price and particulars of Thompson, Rippon, and Co., Estate Agents Exeter. -TO he Sold at this low price, a block of six well-built Cottages in readily lettable situation, always tenanted, well drained, and in excellent repair. Rental £39 a year, tenants paying all taxes. A good investment.-Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street. BETWEEN EXETER AND DAWLI3H T O be Let from Lady-day, 3895, a charming detached Country House near Rail Church and post office, occupying a high and healthy position commanding extensive views. The house is approached by a carriage drive, and contains eight bedrooms, bath-room, drawing room, dining-room, morning-room, well-fitted kitchens, c. There is also capital stabling, three cottages, and well laid out grounds of about two acres.-Apply Thompson. Rippon, and Co., House Agents, Gandy-street, Exeter. A rare litile investment.-For in a select and healthy neighbourhood a pretty semi-detached villa with front garden, verandah, and nice walled back garden with vinery or greenhouse, and let to a good tenant at £34 a year. Price £450.-For cards to view apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., Exeter. S T. DAVID'S.-Pleasantly situate Residence to Let. No. 4, Linden Vale. Rent £28. Handy for rail and centre of city.-Apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gardy-street, Exeter. P ENNSYLVANIA..-Detached Family Resi dence to Let, containing seven bed and four reception-rooms, c. Also stabling, glass houses. and H acres of garden grounds. The house is well drained and tho water supply good and ample. Rent moderate.-Orders to view of the Agents, Thompson, Rippon, and Co. S. mR E FOR D AND ,V ARE MAKING THSIR FIRST DISPLAY Off FANCY GRASSES, PLANTS, AND FLOWERS, SUITABLE FOR HOUSE AND TABLE DECORATIONS. ALSO FEATHER AND GAUZE FANS Imported direct from theConfanent . SEE THE WINDOWS s. WREFORD SON, 174, FORK-ST, EXETER. OIL RIPPINGILLE'S PATENT WARMING STOVES-NO SMOKE! NO SMELL!! CENTRAL DRAUGHT STOVE, with Polished Brass Reservoir of large capacity, and fitted with a 50 Candle Power Albion I Bnrner, giving great Light and Heat complete with Ruby 1 Globe .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . 13 s -Ditto Larger Size, 100 Candle Poioer 19 3 ' - 9 D ' THE SUNRISE, the Cheapest and Best Stove m the Market, Cast-Iron Tank in one piece, Enamelled Black and I Gold Decoration everyone warranted fitted with in-h l movable Burner and Wiok complete ,. v ■ .• ' RADIATORS, Is. EACH QUART KETTLES, 10d. EACH 4 s - 0 D. EXTRA. 03 A Large Stock of Rippingille's Stover tend Lamps of every description at Lowest Prices. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES POST FREE GRATIS . DEVON AND SOMERSET STORES, EXETER - AND - TAUNTON. THE ST. ANNE'S WELL BREWERY COMPANY LIMITED , EXETER. rOTlC i IS HEREBY GIVEN, that the Transfer Books for all Stocks and Share Will be cloaad from theUthDecember to the20th December instant, both dara inclusive, By order, A. J. HELE, Secretary. 89, Quejn-streeC, Ulster, Dee h r 8th, 1894 B R I S T O.L W ATE R COMPANY. WORKS I XETER.-L SaD J. H. NEWMAN, LIMITED. AUCTION ON THURSDAY NEXT. By Ordbr of the Mortgagee. EXETER. Parish of St. Leonard. THOMAS MARTIN W ILL Offer for Sale by Auction, at the Bud© Hotel, X xeter, on Thursday next, December 13th, 1894, at four o'clook p.m precisely subject to the general conditions of the Devon and Exeter Law Association, and to certain special conditions, all of which will bo produced at the Sale, and may be inspected at the officesof the under-mentioned solicitor , all that Freehold Family Residence, situate known as No. 3, Won-ford-road, Mount Radford, as previously adver tised. Further partitulars of Mr. C- T. K. Roberts, Solicitor. 10, Bedford-circua, Exeter or, with cards ro view, of the Auctioneer, 16, Bedford-circus, Exeter. -TMi MONDAY'S ENGAGEMENTS. Exeter Police Court, 11. Plymouth Police Court, 11, Torquay Police Court, 11 Topsham School Board, 11. Exmouth Sessions. C'rediton Improvement Commissioners. West Habitation of the Primrose League-Entertainment Public Rooms. Theatre Royal- At Duty's Call. 7.30, James W. Griffin, of B'RTHS. Crrichard-Dec 7, at 3, Beaufo t-road, St. B Thoma , the wife of F. Chricbard, a daughter. Ellis-Pec6, at Okeharapton-road, St. Thomas. Exeter, the wife of J. H. Ellis, a son. Pornsi -Nov 27,a Cullompton, the wife of John Hope Potter, a eon. Prbvtice-Nov 29. at Fianart-street, Greenock, the wife of A. R. Prentice, a son. Matthews-Dec 2, at 26, East-street, Newton Abbot, the wife of Mr. S. Matthews, a son. Michp.ll-Dec 5, at 23. Cottage-grove, Bow, London, E., th9 wife of George J. Michell, a son. Richards-Dec 2, at Reedy, Dunsford, the wife of Mr. W. Richards, a daughter. Yeo-Dec l, at Instow, the wife of H. Yeo, a son stillborn . MARRIAGE. Vine-Griffin-Dee 3, at Talaton, Vine, of Stockland, to Agnts H. Talaton. DEATHS. B jyant-Dec 3, at 57, Paul-street, Eieter, Samuel Bryant, aged 65. Cole-Dec 3, at Derriton.Pywurthy,Mr. Thomas CoWageil 77. KdofeS-Dec 7, at Okehurst. St. Leor.ard's-road, Exeter, Eliza, widow of W. J. Smith Hooper, and relict of Stcpkea.Goodenoagli, of HcnsfrSte House, Whimple. HuCKRR-a-ilec 5. at East-street, Okehampton, Mr. Thomas Hncker, aged 62. MaoDoCK-Dec 7, at Broadcast, Agatha Mary, eldest child of James Maddoek, aged 1 year 9 months. Pkarse-Dec 6, at Topsham, Captain Henry Pearse, aged 77. Risdon-Dec 4, it 73. Hoopenu-street, Exeter, Samuel Risdon, aged 2 . Shore-Dec 6, at Krogmore'F rin, Brcadolyst, Mr. Georgo Shore, aged 44. Whfaton-Dec 6, at Heavitsrse, John, second so i of the late Peter Wheaton, aged 52. riTIHE Old Established Firm, late Lucombe j Pince, and Co., noar the Exeter Nursery Company, Exeter, are offerteg Wreaths, Crosses, Eridal Bouquets, and choice boxes of Cut Blooms, f.om 7s 6d each, for wnich they have gained so many prizes and testmiciaials by ths present deiigner . L EACH, IS., MrFket-street, Livery Stable, Exeter posting in all its branches funerals conducted in any partof the country. Fashion-n hie wedding caEaoges, bronghams, dog carts, hacks, ftc., let, cm hire by tho week, month, or year. Telephone No. 123. Kalamazoo Specific Pills, 2s 9d pev bottle. Univeratflly acknowledged the most , ffectnal remedy for all affections of the urinary organs. '.Post tree,-for 36 stamps.-Depfit for England. Ptone-awhSon, Chemist . Exeter. Towle's Pcrnyroval and Steel Pills for Females quickly correct all irregularities, remove aU obstructions, and relieve the r'stressing symptoms sc prevalent with the sax. BoxasOi lid and 2s M the latter con-t iins three t s the quantity of all chemists. Font anywhere,on receipt of Id or 34 stamps by maker. E. T. Towle. Chemist, Nottingham Beware of Imitations, injurious and worthless. Important tc Ladies.-Valuable and never ■ uiinc remedies for all irregularities and brtructioos, however obstinate or long -andiug. and never fails to Iring about tlia 'Mired result. Tbeso really wonderful medicine 're without parallel in medical seienco they pro-...rvo health, and have saved thousands trouble, , ue . d expense heaps of nneelicited taatimoniala.-Send at once stamped envelope for , -ort invaluable particulars. The only effectual . .uiady on earth A Dumail, 232, Bangdale 1 ■ VaUhamsto . Ratal 851. AUCTION ON MONDAY. PARSONAGE STILE Close to Railway Station . LYMPSTONE. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions from Mrs. Adcock, who is changing her residence, to Sell by Auction on Monday, December 10th, a quantity of Household Furniture. Japanese Autiquj Cabinet. Whee'er and Wilson Treadle Sewing Machine.Invalid's Wheel Chair, and miscellaneous Effects, more fully described in posters. On view at 11.30. Auction at 1 30 p.m. AUCTION ON TUESDAY. REGENT-STREET, ST. THOMAS. MR. E. T. FULFORD S favoured with instructions to bell by Auction at the Swan Inn, Cowick-street, on Tuesday, 11th December, 1894, at Four o'clock in the afternoon, subject to the conditions which will then be produced and read, all those two well-bnilt, convenient, and commodious Dwelling Houses, with ample Domestic Offices and Garden behind, being Nos. 7 and 8, Regent-street, in the parish of Saint Thomas, in the occupation of Mpssrs. Day and Heard respectively. For viewing, apply to the respective tenant?, and for further particulars to the Auc tioneer, Maddock's-row, Exeter or to Mr. ORCHARD, Solicitor, Cast'e-street, Exeter. Y # j v . , ? . Tha TRANSFES BOOKS, as regards 41 per Cent. Preference Share and Debenture Stock , will be CLOSED on SATURDAY, the 15th inst., and will not b# Re-opened until the 1st January, 1895. EDWARD BUSH. Chairman. ALFRED J. ALEXANDER. Secretary and General Manager, Water Works Office, Small-street, Dec. 7th, 1894. EXETER. T HE Guardians of the Poor of this City hereby invite Tenders for the Supply of Good Fina ul onr aa£ J Butcher's Meat from the 29th December instant to tho 30th March next. Payment will be made monthly. Terders on form3 to be bad at the Office in Castle-street, to be sent to me on or before Mon day, the 17th ins'aut. The G iardiassdo not bind themselves to accept the bwest or anv Tender. ALBERT FOOTE, Clerk to the Guardian . 7th December, 1894. DEVON COUNTY LUNATIO ASYLUM. T ENDERS are required for SUPPLYINGthe DEVON LUNATIC ASYLUM with the best OX and HEIFER BEEF best EWE and WETHER MUTTON, PORK. FLOUR, and COALS from tho 1st day of January, 1895, to to the3Ist dav of Ma oh, 1895. Also for SUPPLYING the UNDERMEN TIONED ARTICLES, in such quantities as may be required, from the 1st day of January, 1895, to the 30th day of Juno, 1895, viz. -ALE, WINES, SPIRITS. DRAPERY. WATER PROOF SHEETING, M HUNG UNIFORMS, EARTHENWARE a D dGLASS. PRINTING, STATIONERY, and TIMBER. Payments for the meat, Hour, and coal will be made monthly. Samples for some of the articles may be seen at the Asylu®, and further particulars obtained of the Clerk between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Saturdiys 10 a.m. to 2p m. They must be delivered free of expense, and will be returned by the officers of the Asyhim if their quality 19 not according to the contract. Tenders, on forms, to be obtained of tho Clerk, are to be signed, sealed, and delivered at the Asylum on or before Thcrsdat, the 20th day of December instant, and to be endorsed on the outride, Tender for Provisions, ftc., or ae the ease may be. AU accounts mast be punctually sent to me at and up to the following dates, viz. -March 31st, Jane 39th. September 30th, December 31st otherwise they will not be paid until the follow ing quarter. No goods will be received without an invoice. The Committee do not pledge themselves to accept the lowest or anv Tender. FREDERICK SANDERS, Clerk, December, 1894. DE VON AND EXETER HOSPITAL, EXETER. TVONATIONS towards the BUILDING JJ FUND £ . d. A mount already advertised 3,697 15 o Bishop of Exeter 10 10 0 A. G. Ferrers Howell, Esq 5 5 0 £3.713 10 0 Further Donations are earnestly solicited, and may be paid at the Exeter Bank, or sent to ALBERT E. BOYCE, Secretary. ELECTION OF GUARDIANS ifiou TO THE PAROCHIAL ELECTORS u, ST. DAVID'S WARD, So. 2. Ladies and Gextuiwik,-W E h vebeinstrongly urged bv nuavEle ' .. lu the St. Sid well's portion of v tur . ! totllow ourselves to be nominated as Cmdi.l ' to represeatyou oa the new Board of tj Ulir j and to this invitation we readily as,cat If elected, oar earnest endeavour, will u devoted to the best int wests and comfortof th paor people wbo are unfortunate ea . i- - • to seek refuge in the Workhouse, orwho'otbJ wise require th? assistance of the I'o.r l Authorities at the same time we p'ed- e , jar8 to be ever mindful of the true interest or ra Ratepayers. la We have the honour t remain Your obedient S-rra'ats H. L BREWSTER. Wrentham, Old Tiverton-ru.d. SIDNEY HERBERT, 59, Sidwell-s rpf t. CORNELIUS KER3LAKE, ' 71, Sidw-U-stret uisnucF TO THE ELECTORS OF No 2 OK ST. DAVIDS. I, ADI PS AND GENTLEMEN,-'AV1NG b?en uvniiaated H L g A.v vjr iftcu u mimsiea one 0 'h Guardians of the Po r for this Divi t native City, I ask you to ratify tint nom,e, . Should you do mo the honcar, i . J l d my tion. Should you do mo the hone endeavour to be of service o my fel amongst whom I have always lived. I rejoice that the time has come when the new Local Government Acts, Boards t Guardians will be more representative Y ° This is as essential for these who a. 'com to seek assistance as for tho ratenav rs K en As a Journalist, I have during th years at!ended the various Boards of i inthe County. From the experience thu I am strongly of opinion tt at there tbouid' be V' extension of Out-relief, and of the Boards ., System, believing that only in exceptional c . should the homes of the poor and aged. 0 i- th temporarily incapacitated, bp broken no, and ! House offered when there is no other V-xT native. I am entirely in accord with the proposil f Old Age Pensions, believing that such a soherr would, while encouraging habits of thrift. io -i ° sense of self-respect. As an Economist, I shall he mindful ,f-he interests of the Ratepayers, but a Guardian my first duty will be to Rkxrmubr rni Poor Trusting to be honoured with vour t I am, your obedient servant. CHARLES PIPER 6, Old Tivertou-road, Exeter, 5th De 1394. nee. imber, ROYAL COLLEGE OF MUSIC. PRINCE'CONSORT-ROAD, KENSINGTON, LONDON, S.W. IXCOSPOBATED BY ROYAL CflABTER, 1883. President • H.R.H. The Prince of Wales, K.G. Director Sir George Grove. C.B ,D.C.L.,LL.D. Honorary Secretary Charles Morley, Es j. HIGH-STREET ST. SIDWELL'S, EXETER. F. T. DEPREE, GOLD AND SILVERSMITH, DIAMOND MERCHANT, AND DEALER IN ANTIQUE PLATE, 17 18, HIGH-STREET, EXETER, 'IS NOW SHEWING A SPECIALLY-SELECTED STOCK Off NOVELTIES SUITABLE FOR CHRISTMAS NEW YEAR'S PRESENT'S Ln WATCHES, JEWELRY, CLOCKS, ELECTRO-PLATE, NEW ft SECOND-HAND SILVER PLATE. SELECTION OF ARTICLES FORWARDED ON APPROVAL FREE OF CHARGE. iBest Pjliles given fob Antique ob Old Plate and Jgwupftv, Eirmtn for Cash ob in Exchange. EARLY CLOSING DAY, SATURDAY ONLY, 2 O'CLOCK. AUCTION ON WEDNESDAY 25, POWDERHAM CRESCENT, EXETKB.. ' SURPLUS HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE AND EFFECTS. MR. E. T. FULFORD S favoured with instructions from Mrs. Pendray, who has left Exeter, to Sell by Auction on Wednesday, December 12th, the surplus Household Furniture, bedroom, dining, and drawing-room appointments, drawing-room suite, invalid's chair-bed, perambulator, lawn-mower, ftc., as described in posters. On view at 10. Auction at 12. HUTCHINGS SON, FAMILY BUTCHERS, 4, EASTGATE, HIGH STREET. NICELY PICKLED OX TONGUES, SILVER-SIDES. AND BROKETS ALWAYS READY THE BEST IS CHEAPEST. TELEPHONE No. SO. I DEVON OX-BEEF AND WETHER MUTTON Thb PsRPaorroN e Mbat IS INVARIABLY SUPPLIED, AT IOVYflST POSSIBLE PRICES, BY N OTICE is Hereby Given, That Preliminary Examinations for Twelve Free Scholar ships will be held on the 30th January, 1895, iu various local centres throughout the United Kingdom. Those Candidates only who may be selected at these Preliminary Examinations will be allowed to attend the Final Competition for the Scholar ships before the Director and Board of Pro fessors, at tha College iu London, on or abjnt February 22nd. Forms of Application for these Scholarships may be obtained from the Registrar of the Col lege. No such application can be entertained if reoeived after 5th .January, 1895. In every case a Registrar's Certificate of Birth must accom pany the application form. The Scholarships will be allotted as follows -Composition, 1 Si aging preference given to Soprano and Tenor , 3 Pianoforte males pre ferred , 2 Organ, 1 T iolin male preferred , 1 Violoncello male only , 1 Flute male only , 1 Clarionet male only , 1 Horn male only , 1. By order GEO. R. 8HORTO, Town Clerk. Exeter, 5th December, 1894. HATTONS PECTROAL ESSENCE. NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS. ADAMS HAS SUCCEEDED BY MAKING HIS CUSTOMERS' INTERESTS HIS FIRST CONSIDERATION. If you are not already dealing with m, 'WILL YOU STUDY YOUR OWN INTEREST BY BUYING A TRIAL AT ixr AUCTION ON WEDNESDAY. VVIlj1 ' IUU iuunu..u m ORDER PRESTON-STREET, EXETER. MR. S. T. FULFORD I S instructed to Sell by Anction at the Com Exchange Hotel, Market-street, Exeter, on Wednesday, December 12th, 1894, at four o'clock iu the afternoon subject to the conditions i It is-a Bold Assertion to make, but wo say without fear of contradiction that no Cake Business in which will then be produced and read , all that England hss made such Rapid Strides in Four Years as ADAMS'. Dwelling House and Premises, Shop, Bake- . r?. house, aud Stores, being No. 58, Preston-street, WHAT DOES THIS PLAIN PACT PROVE, in the City of Exeter. For viewing apply to Mr. Howard, on the premises and for further particulars to th© Auctioneer, Maddock's-row to Mr. Steer, i. Secretory Freehold Laud Society, Upper Paul- j street or to Messrs. PETHEETCK and Sons, Solicitors, Southernhay, Exeter. Our Bu9ines is Conducted Strictly on the Wholesale Principle, Therefore Customer Get a SIXGLE CAKE AT WHOLESALE PRICE. Improves th t we supply the VERY BEST VALU8 IN CAKE. It Drover, indeed, that ADAMS ha r lullv justified the Motto on his Original Trade Mark- Best Vaine for Least Money. £ r AUCTION ON THURSDAY. 23 PROSPECT PARK, KXETER. MR- E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions from th'.-Owner, who is leaving Exeter, to Sell, by Auction, without reserve, on Thursday, December 13th, the Household Furniture and F-lfects on tha above Premises, including mahogany wardrobe, with plate-glass panel, drawing-room suite, mahogany dining table, bureau secretaire, and ' the usual appointments. On view at Ten. Auction at Twelve. VICTORIA HALL, EXETER. TO CARRIAGE PROPRIETORS, HARNESS MAKERS, SADDLERS, SPORTSMEN AND OTHERS. SCOTT-SMITH AND CO. W ILL Sell by Auction, without.reserve, on Tuesday next the follow ingnew-aud second hand Stock of a Saddler and Harness Maker, which has been removed to this Rail for con venience of SaleTwelve ladies' and gentle men's pig skin saddles, brass anebsilveemounted' harness, cart saddles and breechings, Pelham' and snaffio bridles, brass - mounted and o'ner head collars, two cab saddle fitted with tnrretts and bolly bands patent leather gig collars, gig dealers, and jockey whips, hunting crops and lashes, nickel Liver pool aud other bits, racing and hunting spurs, martingales, cart saddhs, fawn awl lute rugs, waterproof loin covers, rollers, leg gings, dog collars, knee caps, dandy, spoke, and water brushes, curry combs, web baiter, hsi ness paste, waterproof carriage, aprons, and other like appliances. On view morning of Sale from H jn.unia'l. ,, when the Sato will commence. Estate Agency OExes, IQ, ' Gandy-eSreet., BmT- I lully justified '■'You wilhrealise th t we alone could not have created this Mighty Business in so short a t'me. The ever-growing Orders of our Customers compel us to be constantly Enlarging oar Operations. Vfe do not ask you to take any of our Statement on Trust, hut we do Invite your attention to oo.r SPLENDID ASSORTMENT OF CAKE 3 IN '.EXETER,'Friday and Saturday, and all the Principal Markets in Devon and. Somerset. H. DA VET'S, OLD ■ AND WBLL - KNOWN ESTABLISHED STUDIO, jftRON BRIDGE B0 ™ 3T ' SPECIALITY •ONECABINKTftTHREECARTES- Foh ,. DK-VISITE r . -THREE CARTEb-DE-VISITE ... FobI -j ADIES J-RBSS j 8SOCIATION, 17, Bbdfobd Cificcs, Exbtkb, Supply Gowns mode to order at the shortest notice, perfect Fit and Stylo Moderate Charges, Wedding and Mourning Orders receiving special and prompt attention. ■ , Estimate given Inspection inrfite . ' JAMES H. BARTLETT, JJOUSE AND-STATE GENT, 160, SIDWELL-STREET, EXETER. RENTS AND ACCOUNTS COL LE Cl ED CO, JAMES KN1LL AJN1 gTOCK JgROKEHS, COOUNTANTS ft UDITORS BEDFORD CIRCUS. EXETER THB U NION BANK OF AUSTRALIA Limited. E talili hed 1837. Incorporated 161 . Paid-up Capital £1,500,000 Reserve Fund £1,000,000 Reserve Liability of Proprietor,...£3,000,000 Letters of Credic and Bill on Demand are grai ted on th- Bank's Liabilities throuehoutth Colonies of Australia, New Zealand, and i'iji. Telegraphic remittance .re inside to the CoUlDie . Bills on the Colonies are negotiated and seat' lor oollwtidu. S Depositor are received for fixedjperlod osetenns ptu h may be ascertained on application. -X7Z W.R. MewSgnTiHapager. ' Bank Baiidinga, Lothhury, B.C. HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTONR HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTONS HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S IMMEDIATE RELIEF COLDS, ASTHMA, INFLUENZA, AND BRONCHITIS. ASK FOR AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT! ! SOLD in BOTTLES 1 - 1 9 2 6 ft 4 6 EACH. SOLE CONSIGNEES FOR GREAT BRITAIN ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE FOR COUGHS, essence ' ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE STONE AND SON, CHEMISTS. EXETER. W. MORTIMER AND SON, gTOCK AND j HARS J ROKERS, CIRCUS, EXETER. S HAKK L IST DECEMBER 8, 1894. E 14, BEDFORD XE TER ELECTION OF GUARDIANS. ST. PKTROCKS WARD. Ladies and Gentlemen,-A T the unanimous wish of an indue'ti ! meeting of the Electors oi ,,~1 have b'on requested to allow ourselves S nominated as representatives on the Boar 1 - f Guardians a post we have filled for sol.c v past . In accepting that position, we do o assured that our past conduct on the Beat . 4 commeuded itself to your judgment. If a -i u elected, nothing shall be wanting on eur pnrt 1 faithfully carrying out the spirit ot the Act-m seeing that the deserving poor are properly nro-ided for, at the same time carefully guarding the Ratepayers' interest. We would wish to draw your attention to the nomination of Mrs. Chorley, who has tc.n nominated for this Ward, by the Committee for promoting the Election of Women Guardians, and to ask those who wish to Vote for us to also Vote for Mrs. Chorley. We beg to remain, Your faithful servants. JOHN R. E. BALKWILL. THOMAS REED. 6th December, 1894. RURAL DISTRICT OF ST. THOMAS. TO THE ELECTORS OF THE PARISH OF HEAVITREE. Ladies and Gentlemen,-I HAVE been invited by a large number of my fellow parishioners, to allow myself to bt nominated to represent you jpoii the Rani I ,s. trict Council, and in consenting I beg to solicit the favour of your vote and interest. I have represented you for several years upon the Board of Guardians, and you will be able to judge of my attention to the duties which have devolved upon me from t le Official List of Attendances at he Board Meetings, whish has just been published in the Press. Ic has always been my endeavour to watefc over the interests of the Ratepayers, and to advocate a liberal treatment of the claims of ill deserving poor and should you do me the honour of electing me again as one of your Representatives it will still be my desire to do all I can i 1 the best interests of the Ratepayers of all classes, aud of thu Parish of Heavitree general!v. I remain, your obed ent servant, Melroee, Heavitree. J. 'SAMPSON. TO THB ELECTORS OK HE WITHYCOMBE URBAN WARD. Ladies axe Gentlemen,-A T the request of the Committee and a larye number of Ratepayers, 1 have consented to be nominated as one of your Representative the District Council. Should yon do me hi honour to elect me, I will endeavour to study tne interest of the ratepayers and the town, hsitiug regard to efficiency as well as economy. 1 am, Ladies and Gentlemen, Your obedient Servant. A GREENAWAY. Dated November 17th. 1391 • _____ TO THE ELECTORS OF THE LITILEHAM URBAN WARD. Linns and Gevti.emen,-A T the earnest request of a large numb r ot Ratepayers, I have consented to come for ward as a candidate for the District Coem.i of Exmouth. I am of opinion that all large l c I interests should have a reore entafive on that Board. At the sametime I think it mo t decirsbie that there should be several independent menil crj with no individual interest t-o serve, except tht welfare of the District and its Resident' , ri. ..l you think proper to elect me, 1 will eedei -do everything in my power for the bene . all the inhabitants of the pretty town in whica I have the pleasure to reside. I am, Ladies and Gentlem . Faithfully yours. RICHARD LEY. Duncroft, Exmoatb., Nov. 10th. 189 . TO THE ELECTORS OF TilK LlTTLEEAM URBAN WARD. Ladies and Gentlemen. I HAVE the pleasure to offer myself as a -didate tor the New District Council. During the period that I have been member of the EYmouth Local Board of Health I conscientiously endeavoured t promote the t • interests and progress of Exmoutb with c-ireic economy, and if you confer on me the honour 0 electing me to the District Council 1 shall sti continue the same policy. , . I would remind you that we go forwar n Sanitary and other desirable improvements attracting Residents and Visitors to This desired end will prove of immense bem - w ail classes of the community. I am, Ladies and Gentlemen, Your obedient if. W CREWfc. Rcllo street, Exmonth, November 14th, .i _ T r Shre. NAME. Pd-Dividend. , Pay'blr p.e. Price. 7i . 9 £25 Bristol Water 8hs 25 AplOot 71 iS'i 20 D Do Do 20 Apl Octl 71 415 6 Ho Do Do SiAplOct 7 12 44 Do Do Do 20 Apl Oct ~ Stck C'mclUnAssceCo 4 p c Db Stk, late 1 .West of England Insce lOOjJan Jly, 4 100 iDevonftCrnwllBli! 20 ! MrSep 20 £10 Ex'terArcadoCoSj lOMchSp 5l T ed as For Severe! For Pain 11I For Infiamj CAlJ Prices or A R wa CJS R °yal AniJ 2k', 1 L l 3TAB
THE EXAMINER -894 J2. Goddard, Ne'wgate-strect, wine-merdfauU.-Jan. S3. C. Pepkins, Swansea, shopkeeper.-Feb. 16. J. ''Seagoe-,' -DUke-street, St. James's, taylor.-Feb. 4. K. Grange, York-placc, Portman-square, miller. CERTIFICATES-Jan. 14 I , Mendes, H arrow-street, Gravel-la e, HoumhdHeh, ' army accbulreitient-fnafcf r.--C. Bakery SavUle-place, Lambeth 8 ir-factor.-F-. Head, Bnry-8t.-Edmund's, baker.-T. Doyle, Threadoeedle-street, merchant.-R. Wilkinson, Manchester, insni'anre-broker.-.1 i hn Weigh!, Hammersmith, cheese-mbnger,-rj . Rutter. Ormskiik, innkeeper.-J. Sharpe, Market-Deeping Lincoln linen-draper,-,W, Mortimer, VVivenhoe E'S-rrx, luajster,-i-N. .Dqnnington, jun. Loildon, Norfolk, merchant.-J. A. A. Lqach, Jewry-strect, Aldgatc, y ine-mcfcbpnt.'-S. Sander , Abchureli-lane, vintner. J. Smith, ivyat Trinity-lane, .rneychaut. . PRICE OP STOCKS YESTERDAY. 3 per Cent. Red. 6afjf. Omnium dis. Consols f r Op., S8J. On the ttil of January, a Monday Edition of the Ex--a'mi.vbi? will be printed, fur the~.se of Readers of London Newspapers in the Country If will, of coarse, i contain all the London MXnKEts, and the latest In telligence up to tWevehiug of Modtfay. • A Pre-face, Index, and Titee Pace, are in pre paration, which will be presented gratis to every Sub scriber who wishes to bind up the Papers of.lhe Year. The Letter of An Artist will appear next Sunday. Other Communications are merely delayed for want of room, His Rover Highness the Duke of York having . ORDERED A PROSECUTION to be commenced against the Examiner for its Strictures on Major Hogan's Pamphlet, an ADDRESS TO THE PUB LIC on the Subject will appear on Sunday nekt. THE EXAMINER. ■ ■■■,. p... ... .air i, i , ~- r - - t , L n oS December 25. ■ . ,, I I ■ . ~ There are no recent accounts whatever from Spain, and the onlyintelligence. that has been received this ■week is the confirmation of the defeat of Castanos by his own detail.' Thirty' thousand troops are re ported to -be under orders for foreign service, and the Govfernmbnf, it is said, are buying up transports at axiy price, A stand therefore is to be made in .Portugal, whether to any purpose or not our readers may well, judge, who have seen Spain conquered notwithstanding ail its pride and-patriotism, and who, if we may at all judge from past events, will see Portugal conquered too, notwithstanding all the pride 'of oifr hfcroes and the patriotism of our Commanders iit Chief. n TtAmk'it is pretty evident fo the first place, • that the native Portuguese are'not a jot better, dis-' posed to the soldier of one nation than to those of ' another, unless indeed heresy makes some difference and in the second it has not been by any means proved.that they are not absolutely inimical to the nestoration of the Prince Regent so that Portugal will most probably become a mere-seat of war, that is, if we really do' fight there, or, what is-the 9ame thin -, quarter some of our troops at Cintra for a month or so. In the mean time, a General Fast and humiliation for sin have been ordered by the Go vernment to'further the great cause. Fasts are certainly excellent tilings, especially in such a luxu rious cbhutry as this, aed I reverence their utility? hut the Spaniards fast almost every other day in the year, and I aid afraid that'if We do notnlng'besides fasting, we shall kill mort fish than Frenchmen. The humiliation for our SinS is 'indeed',a serious and ser viceable duty, if we really do feel bumble on the occasion if the pveyers upon their country do for once in their fives feel ashamed before their Creator and I trust, that the corruptions of the political and military systems, with the authors of those corruption , will not he forgotten in the prayers to the God of Armies. The President of the United States has offered to this country and to France, that he will revoke the embargo in favotlr of either nation, if it will revoke on its own part its orders against neutrals, and that on the other hand, he Will continue it against either one or both of them,, as they act accordingly. This impartial and manly proceeding lias been treated with silence by our enemy, and with a querulous want of dignity by ourselves, and hasof course made consider able noise among the monied people, though nothing has arisen from it but a confirmation of the philo sophic policy of Mr.' JefverWn. The President has been accused of partiality to Bonararte yet there'Is a slrajn.oi- poiitieaJ liberty and independence throughout his Declaration, which perhaps -has not only touched' the temper of Bonaparte, hut has rfiStle some other great personages feel a little uo-comfortafilc. There is- a- rumoured- change of' Administration in favour of a Noble Lord, whose opinions are said to he in direct .opposition to. those, of. the present con ductors of affairs. If such a Noble Lord can be found, or I should rather say, if such a Noble Lord can get .interest enough.for, the change, his opinions not only seem in a fkir way of being oorrect, but of dping something for the country,h. , ■ ! , rdT . ! i- tail , , ff up 3 -j , . . ny IS s . -E.I Sir A. WeEeeslev, it is said, hg-oisj' to Portugal again. Will he retain his sittiatiob of'Chief Secretary for Ireland ? If so. It will bfe a proof that the place is not a necessary one, and that the great Opcnce should he saved to the public. An Embargo has been found necessary, in India, to preserve the trade from the depredations of tat fri gates and a privateer of 16 guns. Grc rT.Etain k 1 not quite 1300 vessels of wa
N THE EXAMINER! rrancis Jaokman, Walter Boze, Wn,. Long, John Acton, PJiUip Ulrick, Win. Wakefield, Richard Lock, War. J. Brou n, John Enter, ■ Benjamin Poo marine. Killed on George Nicholas Hardutge, Esq. Captain John Beer,,John Burn, seamen Evan Jones,' marine. _ Wonmhdon the 8l t,-Henry George Mqysey, Lieu tenant, severely Tims. Gadsby, carpenter's mate, ditto Thos. Clerk, seaman John M'Etten, corporal of ma rines S Charles Richards, marine s Wm. Pope, marine, since dead Henry Thorn, boatswain's mate,, slightly . Win. Davis, George Anger, seamen. Dawmtig-streetx Dec. §0 His Majesty w i pleased, by a Commission bearing date the I lth of February last, to appoint Lieut.-Gen. Sir J. Stuart, K, B, to be Commander of bis Majesty's Forces iu the Mediterranean the Garrison of Gibraltar ex cepted. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. J, Bell, SoutlnvoodJane, Middlesex, underwriter, BANKRUPTS. T, Compere, St. Alban's, Hertfordshire, grocer, to sur. render Dec. 2f, 11, jan, SI, at eleven,' at Guildhall, London, Attornies, Messrs, Barlynv and Hope, Stone-buildings, LineolnVImi. J, Burses, 'Liverpool, tailor, Jan. 23, 24, 31, at eleven, at the Globe Tavern, Liverpool. Attorney , ilr. Pen nington, LjverpheL J. Bell, Liverpool, master mariner, Jan. H, 12, 31, at eleven, at the Globe Taverii, Liverpool. Attornies, Messrs. Griffiths and ttinde, Liverpool. Wm, Youug, Ardwich, dealer, Dec, 24, Jan. 4, 31, at ■ two, at the Palace Inn, Manchester. Attorney, Mr. Law, Manchester. , W. Boddy, Scarborough, epmmoo-brewer, Jan. 17, 18, 31, at eleven, at the George Ion, Scarborough. Attorney, Mr, Lister, Scarborough, ■ S. Trnip, Cbadderton, Prestwick,- tmneashire, mamtfctc-turer, Dec, 23, Jan. 5, 31, at the Bqg, Tavern, Man chester. Attornies, Messrs. Johnson and Bailey,. Man chester. ' ' '■ 1 ! J. Hargreaves, Manchester, brick-maker, Dec. 30, Jan. 5, 31, at three, at the Commercial Inn, Manchester. Attorney, Mr. Hewitt, Manchester. 3. Swine, Halifax, merchant, Jan. 2, 3, ?S, aften, at the Talbot Inn, Halifax. Attorney, Mr. Edwards, Halifax. DIVIDENDS. Jan. 14. J. Wickqns, Sandhurst, Kent, grocer.-Jan. 10. H. R. aud W. Mure, Fcnchnrch-street, merchants.j. -Jan. 27. G. Richards,Gough-s quare, furrier,-Jan. 14. J. C. Hayward, 0!iainbcrs-street, roodaian's-k lds purser.-Jon. 19. J. Neale and P. Tanner, pqckburq-, hill, Ratcliff, dealers.-Jan. 24. T. Musson, Lancashire, Cotton-spinner.-.Jon. Ifi. G. A.' Child, Bristol, scrivener.-Jan. 1'8. B. Coats, T. Massey, and J. Hall, LoraingWw, Staljord .hjywers,--Jan. Id. J. Whitaker, sen. W. Whitaker,. Shockport, and J. W hitaker, jun, Edgeiey, Chester, cottoh-ibaiiufacturors. . Jan. 14. W. Partridge, Exeter, serge-maker.-.Jan. 13. R. Jefferson'and W. Dickenson, Kingston-upon-IIall, woollen-drapers.-Jan. 17. T-,Mitchell, New-cafitle-upon-Tyde, linen-draper.-Jan. 21. s' Denham, Bermondeey-street, Southwark, taylor.-Jail. 31, T. Winterbourn, Aldersgate-strect, cabinet-maker. Jan. 1-7. E. Johnson, Bleedingheart-yard, Charles-steeet, Hattmi-garden, cabinet-maker.-Jan. 21. H. Hart, Htcat Coram-slreet, Bruits u ick-square, broker.- J an. 17. 1', Gardner, Slioieditph, haberdasher.-Jan. 28. A. Johnstone and J. Nainbv, Finch-lane, perfumers.-Jan. 21. G. Blunt and J, Mount, Little Carter-lane, Doctor's Commons, bholc-iile grocers.-Jan. 21, C. m I u' lU! 'r' V racc 'chur !h-street merchant.-Jaii. 28. • aybran and J. Geriard, Swnn-stiect, M hurries. Cornfactors.-Jan. II W. Clark, Ky the, taylor. r vs n m Cr TIFICAT'ES-Jx . H . • j. Bell, Trowbridge, Wilts, clothier,-T. Stretch,Graf-ton-street,grocer.-J. Benriques, Aldgate High-street, me chant.-J. G. Gasiakc, White Horse-street, Step ney, tallow-chandler. .. -■ ■■■. ■'Bg8aeaeg_ium ! SATURDAY'S LONDON GAZETTJZ. This Gazette contains a Proclamation for a General Fast m England on the 8th of February, and in Scot land, on the the following day. BANKRUPTCIES SUPERSEDED, R. Thompson, Brcneepeth-Parks, Durham, dealer.--R. Parsons, Lyncombe and Wideorahe, Somersetshire, grocer.-J. Whitehead, Kingston-upon-Hull, grocer. BANKRUPTS. W. Wilkes, Birmingham, malster, to surrender, Jan. 9, 10, Feh. 4, at V.velvc, at the Swan Tavern, Birming ham. Attorney, Mr. S. Low, Birmingham. G. Jones, Liverpool, bookseller and statiouer, Jan. IS, 14, Feb. 4, at twelve, at the Star and Garter, Liicr pool. Attorney, Mr. J. Munou, Liverpool. J, J. Howard, Pimjieo, Middlesex, surgeon and apo thecary, Dec. 31, Jan. 1-0, at ten, Feb. 4, at Guild hall. Attorney, Mr. Rich, Raid i£e-C rest. J. Green, Hackney, Middlesex, builder and bricklayer, Dec. 31, Jau. 3, Feb. 4, at Guildhall. Attorney, Mr. Chapman, St.Mlldred's-court, Poultry. IV. Wells, Queen-street, Bloomsbury, iVorking-jnvellcr, Dec. 31, Jan. 7, Feb. 4, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs. Edwards arid LVoii, Great Russel-sireet, J. Crawford, Hoxtohj Middlesex, moneysscriveiier. Dee. 27, at eleven, Jan. , Fch. 4, at one, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs. Basset, Rennet-stroet, Bkickfriws. M. French, George-street, Portinan-squarc, wine-mer chant, Dec. 27, at one, jan. 5, at ten, Feb. 4, at one, at Guildhall. Attorney, Mr. Hackett, Chancery-lane. W. Chambers, Lincoln, curlier, Jan. 9, 10, Feb. 4, at eleven, at the Rein Deer Inn, Liucoln. Attorney, Mr. Elgie, Lincoln. W. Hayes, Kilburn, Middlesex brick-maker, Dee. 27, Jau.. 10, Feb. 4, at ten, at Guildhall, Loudon. Attor ney, Mr. Humphries,' Clement's-Inn. J. Mausall, G. Burkinshaw, and J. Fielding, Sheffield saw and edgetool manufacturers, Jan. 5, 6, Feb.,4, at twelve, at the Angel Inn,Sheffield. Attornies, Messrs. '-Rimington and Wake, Sheffield. G. Lning, London, merchant, Defc. 81, Jan. 7, Feb. 4,gt twelve, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs, Catou and Brumell, Aldersgate-strect. DIVIDENDS. Jan. 7. T. Leach, Gr.ices-wllcy, Wellelose-square, haber dasher.--Jan. 20. JL Wright, Birmingham, tictor.-r-Jan, 10. J. Endali, Over Norton, Oxfordshire, car rier.-jan. 18. J. Owen, Earith, Huntingdonshire, victualler.-Jan. 10. J. Austic, Devizes, Wiltshire, clothier.-Jan. 25. P. Nupper, Bristol, haberdasher -Jan. 19. S. King, llalesworth, Suffolk, merchant.-Jau. 1G. H. Chambers, Borough of Warwick, War wickshire, irinkcepcr.-Jan. -18. S. Smith, Liverpool, merchant.-Dec. SI. C. Smith, Bath, com-tactar.-Feb, 7. R. Sharp, Upton-placc, Stratford, Essex, car penter.-Jar. IS. R. Core, Bristol hat-mamtfaetUrer. -Jan. 23. T. Topliam, Manchester, merchant.-Feb. 4. P. Sintzenich, New Bond-street, printed lor.-Jan. J7. G. Duffield, York-huUdiags, Bermondsey New. rsad, Wool-carder.-Jan. 21. H. G. Bcetsan, Gray' Inn-square, money-scrivener.-Jan. 28. R. Drake a
aucover the Villain. The Soldier was immediately taken Care of, and his Leg was Yefterday cut ofF, and 'tis hop'd he will do vi vj well. It is thought fome Villains had a Defign to have fet Fire to the Magazine of Powder, in order to blow it up. Three of the Soldiers which are quarter'd in Greenwich, were taken up the next Day on Sufpicion. Yefterday the Lords of the Admiralty commiflion'd the following Ships, viz. The Hainpton-Court, of 70 Guns, Capt Moftyn. The Suffolk, of 70 Guns, Capt. Stuart. The Sunderland, of 50 Guns, Capt. Brett. The Win-cheller, ot 50 Guns, Capt. Martin. TheShoreham, of 2 p Guns, Capt. Hanway. And a new Sloop, Archibald Stuart. A Bill is order'd into Parliament for making it High Tr-.-afon to hold any Correfpondence with the Son of the Pretender to his Majefty's Crown. In the Bill lately pafs'd for the more fpeedy and effec tual recruiting his Majefty's Land Forces and Marines, there is a Claufe that every Perfon who enters voluntarily, ihall receive Four Pounds as a Gratuity, and be at Liber ty, if he docs not like the Service, to quit it at the Kx-piration of three Years. We hear the Lords of the Admiralty have ordered all the mall Veffels built to prevent Smuggling and running of Woot, to be fully mann'd, and cotnplcatly iiltcd for Channel Service in Queft of fuch fmall Privateers as in the lait French War lav continually upon the Engliih Court, under the Land, to furprize ana intercept our Homeward, and often our Outward bound Merchant Ships and that all Tenders on his M.tjclly's Ships ot War, are to be fully mann'd and Cruize until the fiid Men of War aie ordered to another Station. Extrafl of a Letter from Carthagcra in Old Spa , March 5 A 1 . S. dated maae trie ijtirar vpetn -, 01 the combined Army'' A JaMn?maun® to 40 0 Men. The King of the tv ISidlie§. has puhlifhed a yiifello containing Reafonsfrhjs ijptiying tiic Spaniards under his Protection, andlr his oppofing the Enterprizcs of the Auftrians in caijthey enter hi Kingdom. l'is affured thatlHnce Lobkowuz has put the Abruz-zo under a Contriliion of 6 rotre Auit.'s 4- l Month. L O W- o u, N T R i •. S. Hague, April 6i They'wme ' V. in Far is, that the Prince of Conti hadp ffed the .i .vit.roiu Opj.0 fition, and taken t Caftle ■ Apizino.nt. Other Let ters mention the A'lgiftra.i . ' l ice having lent the Keys of their Townto D' 'I 1 , and tb.it the fir ft Poft the King of Saiinia u j intend to maintain againft the French ad Spin.. . , vr.. Moutalbo. Let ters from Rome of he Ze ■ f . ■■ eg Advice of their Sicilian M.ajettics hating L '. tne Queen being retired to Gaeta J, ate the K ■ go .c 10 put himfclf at the Head of his Trotp, which, according to other Ad vices, did afluallv jdn thole or hi. de Gages at CliietU, behind lb. Peicaro, n the 24th p ft. Ycllcrdav the StaesGeneral ftuhberated on Mr. Tre vor's Fill Memorial. Some Provinces iinnic!latciy con fenced to it, and tl.j Acceflion or Oiirers i fortnwith ex petted. W H I T l.H A L L, 4v 4io. Gazette, inform ut, that Letters were drived there from Rome, importing, that the Pretender wa. preparing to fet out for France with all his Houflmld. § Letfez from Paris lay, that the Hrog of Spain is again very mcfch indifpofed. A The Lords'of the Admiralty have order'd 10,000 Bar rels of Beef and Pork, befides dry Provifions, and a large Cjrantity of Naval Stores, to be got ready forth with, for the'Fleet defign'd for Channel Service, which, it is laid, will ctj jjft of 26 Sail of Ships, 1 of whom will be of the and under the Command of a bra vs and experienced Admiral, who has more than once figna-liz'd himfblf in the Defence of his Country. • Since the Commencement of the War with France, it is remarkable lhac no Tea ha been feiz'd, which has rais'd the Price of that Commodity 2 s. in the Pound from whence wc conclude that the Smuggling Trade was carry'd on chiefly by the French. By Letters IVom Ireland we hear, that the Proteftant3 in the fuveral Counties of that Kingdom, are forming themfelves into Regiments, aiming their Servants, and •taking every Precaution ncccifary, to conv'11 the Freneh that their Scheme , if any, againft that Kingdom, muft prove abortive. We hear his Majefty's Servants have Orders to be ready on the firli Notice to go abroad. 7be Hargrave, P nl rave,from Gibraltar to Mabone, was taken the zetb of February, by the Spanijb Admiral, in the Real, in Company with Jeven others, and brought into this Place. Capt. Palgrave was nine Days on board the Spanijb Admiral, and gives an Account, that be had iofi 5 CO Men in the laic Action, and that the Ship was greatly damag'd. Laft Wednefday in the Afternoon two French Priva-teers,, lately taken in the Englifh Channel, where brought up to the Tower, and their Crews landed, and confin'd in the Tower Jail, asPrifoners of War. Ngf N Wednesday and Thursday's POSTS. On Tuefday lajl arriv'd the Mail from Holland. GERMAN Y7 -Vicuna, March 24. O P RINCF. Lobkowitz ha Jnd pofitivc Orders f.nt him to pttrfue the Spaniards and to attack them in any Place at all Events. Orders are fern to the Troops in Bohemia to hold themfelves in a Readinefs to march, ar.d part cf them are to defile towards the Rhine. Franekfort, March 31. The Emperor has fent march-ing Orders to his Troojft, and 'tis determined that they fhall affemble near Phiiipsburgh --. ITALY. Naples, March 13 The Court having received Ad vice that the Spanifh Army was arrived under the Can non of Pelcira , and that Prince Lobkowitz was in purfuitof them, it was refolved that he King hould put himfelf at the Head of his Army to prevent their pene trating into the Kingdom. A Regency has been alfo eftablifntd to govern during his Abfence. And this D.iy his Majetfy, accompanied by the Ambaflador of France and iLvci-,.1 Lords and Minifters of his Court fet ouc for the Frontiers. Pefcaro, March 20 In the Dutchy oj Urbina, one of the bed built ju d majl flourijhing Twins belonging to the See of Rome, and the targef in the whole Dutchy. 'Tis a B hop's See, who has a fine Palace there, and is fu h pa fed to have been a Roman Colony. It was defftfay cd l oti.a, an,i afterwards rebuilt by Belifarius The Junction of the Neapolitans and Spania miards was f Phiiipsburgh is in the Bi bopriek of Spires, part of the lower Palatinate, fending on the Ea t Side of tfje Rhine, about S or 9 Miles below Spi es. 'Tisa mail Town, but one of the ftrungell in all Germany, being unrounded with Marjhes and Will fortified afte - the modern man ntr. re M.'.'fhal Berwick lofi bit Life bef •.visa inarjaes ana will jorlijtcd after the modern man-nr. It was formerly taken by the Freneh, afterwards '■eficred to the Emperor, and lately retaken again when M.'.'fhalBerwick lofi hit Life before it. l Pefcara, vid, Oracle. our Geographical Notes in the laft A Meffcnger arrivedlall Night with Difp.ift he from Admiral M itiiiews, n his Grate ti e Duke of Kew-calile, of the 17th palloom iVJ.ihmi Harbour, giving an Accounf that the Dei ges ulKiued by his iVb juicy's 1 Fleet under h ? Commnd, as well in the late Engage ment with the French nd Spaniards, as in the ubfcqucnt Storms, being repairec, and the Ships fitted out fur the Sea, he mropofed it fail from thence the Day io!-Iowing. Thefe Letters likewifr bring Advice that the Admiral had thought himfelf obliged to Impend Vice Admiral i.eflock, in Regard to his Conduct in the kite Action, from all Authority in hisMajefty's Fle.r, 'till the King's ph alure hould be known, and that he had ordered the laid Vice Admiral to return Home immediately on board his Majefty's Ship the Saliibury. .. G -I R E L A N D. Dublin, March 31. One of the Tranfports which fail'd laft Sunday for Farkgue, with 11 Soldiers anu four Officers on board, befides the Ship's Crew, ran foul of the Man of War, by which he loft her fSowfprit and Foiemaft Sail, but is Inee got fafe into the file of Man. His Grace the Duke of Dcvonfhirc has order'd a Ship to fail thither, in order to carry the above Soldiers and Of fisers to Parkgate. Extraft of a private Letter from Armagh, dated March 28. ' Chichefer Fortefcue, E q-, High Sheriff of tbe Coujitv 1 eof.'efye Ire l' T j 'eCni, r, eru 'a a CommiJJton ' from the Government V arraying the Militia of that ' County, and accordingly IVarrants were made out to the ' feveral High Conftablcs for fummtning the Protefiaut ' Inhabitants fit to carry Arms, who were all array d in ' their refpeflive Baronie- to the amount cf i6,oco but ' in this County nothing hat been done yet. L O N DON, April id. Laft Thurl'dav a Cow bdonging to Richard Andrews, of Martin in Surrey, Efq brought thiee Calves alive at one Birth, which is etlccm'd the mod extraordinary Thing of it Kind ever known in England. Letters from Paris fay, that the Biitifb Subjcdts fettled in France, who demean themfelves quietly, and mind nothing f u their own Affairs, will have Pernvflion to ftay tiicie ar.d that there is no Appearance thatthe Court will fei .e the Eft'cits of fuch as intend to withdraw in the Term llipulated by Treaties. The Soldier who was hot a few Nights ago on his Poft at the Magazine at Greenwich, died on Saturday Morning laft. Letters from Italy fay, that a Party of tl ? Auftrians, under the Command of Prince Lobkowitz, had fallen in with the Baggage of the Duke of Modena, near Afcoli, and carried it off, after a fmart Engagement with the SJfeniards that guarded it. Chietti is the Capital of the hither Abruzzo, the Rcfidence of the Governor, and an Archiepificopal See. It was antiently called Theatca, from whence the Order of Tbcatincs founded by an Archbijhop of this place, and afterwards Pope, by the Name of Paul V. It is about Twenty five Miles South from the Frontiers of the Ecc eftaflical State, and about the fame Diflance Efeefi from Pefcara, under the Cannon of which Place the the Spanijb Army lay. J- About 30.000 l. Sterling. ' Gact i ftands on a Rock near a Guiph of the fame Name in the Mediterranean. It is a ftrong place well fortiped, of difficult Accefs, and its H erbour is reckoned the bef in the Kingdom. It is about 45 Miles N. IV. of Naples, • Letter from Deal, dated April S. His Mujefly's Ships the Dover and Sapphire, being on a Crui.-. obferved a large Galliot lying off Oftcnd which they imagin'd to he Dutch, and therefore took little Notice of her the next Day they order'd one of their Boats on board lie r, when, to the Surprize of the Officer who was fent, he law her full of Soldiers, where with he acquainted ilie Captains of the Men of War,-who immediately boarded her, and found 200 Uhlans, part of the Regiment rais'd by Count Saxe, for the French King, on which they brought her into the Downs the faid Veffei came from Hamburgh, and is to be fol low'd by the Remainder of the Regiment, who are all order'd to embark at that Port, and to land at Dunkirk, whither the above Galliot was bound. Friday and Saturday's POSTS. . - FRANCE. 1 m Paris, March 30. It is about three Englijh miles long and two and an half bt tad, contains about 500,000 Inhabitants, and confequently not two Thirds as big at London M3 T iai of Fransc. He is a Protellant, and. therefore cannot affift at Courts Martial, and is fpecially exempted from taking the ordinary Oaths. • The King's Army that is to aflemble in Flanders next Month, will be composed of 11 5000 Men, to be divided into two Corps, and 'tis fa d the allied Army in that Quarter will amount to gocoo, Wfides light Troops. ' l'is faid the Duke de Ponthievre, Admiral of France, has delivered out already 5 or 6'o Commiflions to Pri vateers, ice. to cruize on the Englifh, LOW-COUNTRIES. Brujfels, April z. The Garrifon of FurnesJ is to be augmented with 400 Men, and 'tis reported that the Sluices arc to be opened in order to lay the Country un der Water about Namur, Ipres, Menin , c. A French Party, of about 600 Men have feized, near St. Tron §, ico Horfes belonging to the Hanoverians, and have condufled them to Maubeuge, and we hear that 50 Aullrian Huffars have been furprized in a French Town, which, by miftaket they took to be under the Dominionof the Queer of Hungary. L O N D O N, April 12. Some private Letters from It.d mention, that there are great Stirs in the Kingdom of Naples, and that it was apprehended a general Revolt would follow, on Prince Lobkowitz' enr r ug th Frontiers. And that it was believed Don Cailos would confide his Perfon, on his Arrival inthe Army, to the Walloon Guards having J Fumes is a ffrong Town in the Earldom of Flanders, not far from the lea fide. It Bands between Nieuport and Dunkirk, on the great Canal between that Place and Oft end. It was retlored to the Emperor by the Treaty of Utrecht, and is one of the Andrian Frontier Towns in the Netherlands. Namur is the Capita! of an Earldom of the fame Name, landing on the River Maefe, or Mettfe, on the Frontier of Luxemburgh Ipres and Menin are firong Frontier 7owns in Flanders, and the neo-ref well forti fied Places to the French Netherlands, from which they are not above 5 miles diflant. § St. Trou is inthe County of Liege, lying on the great Road between Lc.wa '.n and Matflrieht, 
dubbin RUB in DUBBIN ! 1 p y v u h e Tender Feet, Corn , or Bunions rub some of Sam Brunt's Dubbin onthem ■ I licrWit is marvellous. Will Soften and Water-l pW Boots and Harness. Oilmen, Boot and I Hs.-w Makers retail it. Id, 2d, 3d per Box PKOt'T. BKAK-STREBT. LONDON, W IS 1 R ESTABLISHED K B E C K N K s 15 thsjnpton Building!, Chancery Lane, London WO-AND-A-HALF per CENT. IN lL Taiiowed on DEPOSITS, repayable oi WO perf'ENT.on CURRENT ACCOUNTS the minimum monthly balances, when not rabel • £100. TtH KS SHARES, AND ANNUITIES pur d and sold. A V I N U 8 EPARTMBNT. or the encouragement of Thrift the Bank ire small suras on deposit, and allow Internet, ,-1'y on each complete £L, REBECK JJUILDINU COCIBTT. s c T c HOW TO PURCHASE A HOUSE SOS TWO OOIVEAS FRB OKTH . PIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND fob Tier SHILLINGS PKB MONTH. The BIRKBECK ALMANACK with fall •ar'K-ulsr . post free. FRANCIS RAVBNSCROFT. Manager NEW ZEALAND. REDUCED FARES ni- r iing Settlers, by the New Zealand hipping Company's .38, Leadenhall street, London Steamers, rfrrther particulars and for all information d ug rbeColony apply tothe Agent-General -r Zealand, 15, Victoria-Street, London • -ntbeNew Zealand Shipping Cos Agents-Escott, 35 Pans-street, Exeter Pinder .rkwell, 191, High-street H. J. Waring, . Millbay, Plymouth, a CSTRALIA, NEW ZBALAND7 -t TASMANIA. £NT LINE FORTNIGHTLY MAIL SERVICE. following Steamships leave LONDON as - PLYMOUTH one day later, NAPLES days later, tor ALBANY, ADELAIDE, f'i l' RN E, and SYDNEY, with He 11 ■in Mails, calling at Colombo, and taking - U r all Ports in Austral Asia. •d msh p Tons. H.-P. Date. l'BA 5.552 7,000 ...Dee 14. CO 3,918 4.000 ... Dec 29. t-TKAL . . 5.524 7.000 ... Jan. 11. Bll 6,?10 10,000 ...Jan. 25. ■ -s leaving London seveu days later and travelling oxerland can overtake lean er at Naples. Loading Berth, Tilbnry Docks. ■ - among the largest and fastest afloat, -.v-s cuisine, hot and cold baths, electric . t'c- '.igh.uit, tncrongh ventilation, st aud Second Saloon Fares, £35 to £70. £?S to £105. Also Cheap Third Class BALL ROOMS D BCOK TKL ia the choicest efcylv ffl rn _ to £50 by WILLIAM EDWARDS, Bed fordi Works, Cathwiae-ktreet. Bjcet?r. Splendid teitt oni U from the highest couuty families L taft Novelties ia Silk, Satiu, Lace, and other Draperies, Elegant mirrors aud looking-glanses. Stages, Scenery, Prosceniuuui, Lime Light, c. CORNS! CORNS!! CORNS!! BOSSITER'S CORN DESTROYER. Will remove the most troublesome hard or soft corn iu a few days. B post o i receipt of 11 or lb stamps. T. E. ROJSITER, A.P.S., CHEMIST BAMFrON-STREET, TIVERTON. fHE ENGLISH ORGANETTE.' SASV PAYMENTS. thCitLY 4 -. hiii mi - mhTliLY. FXETRn FjfrXG POST, SATURDAY DECKMBLK 8, W W, ,eto. wirtVMM Sr pity !jjith arfUti-, tlha y, A m child n riny ft. K a t Karvcllou Huiicsl Instrument In the World. PR'-f 30 - T£8 V- ilEPCRIT AND 41- SMTHLY. _ , Oreajerte dcl.v.i'-lwAion ArrtT . j, pniih TVHttfor lUtirfrmiaf 4 f .ll i nrUvH Ar . 'Men,onib J. M. £K1F££, Ol anattn Works, Blackburn, THE GREATEST REMEDY ON EARTH. THE GREAT COUGH AND OCLD CURE. ls.lid.and 2s.9d. B E K 0 81X E REGISThjfiED. Sold by all Chemists, or post free for Is. 4d, aud 5s. from F. WELLINGTON,' Tha'Chymist . 1 Formerly Hitchcock , THE PARADE, TAUNTON. f P. GREKN It CO., -ANDERSON, AN-f DERSONfcCo., Head OJflces - Ken church Avenue. London. TT XT M t tV a 1 far passage apply to the letter firm, at 5, v • Avenue, E C. or to the Branch I-. ckspur-street, S.W. T. B. Purnell refer Mr. C. W. B. Pearce, Fore-? -!. roi b in wip. j ? r 1 IVILtT AUSESTrEARTirvISEASE hatV ausesIIeartUisease HT 1 MC3 I F v z's leading Doctor to-d y can prove that cstion. Biliousness, Pain between the n fw I ' . irrs, and Pain after Food, and in ths ■- ■ X as- of the Back, Sick headache, Con-. at ion. irritable Temper. Cold Chill, and y '.--s of Heat along the Backbone, Kid-U sa l 1 . 9 tfc 1 a ...td B.udder Troubles-all very simple adments-but all sow the germs of i Set. 1 EEAET DISEASE. ■ ! • I •T sfn i ffering from Cbun re of Life, often end lji J a Li- and HEART TROUBLES, the only Remedy at present known to cure, is t-mjL J 1 rei j I MOREL'S SOVRAN TIFF'S STARCH. TIFF'S STARCH. CUFF'S STARCH. S tiffs starch. STIFF'S STARCH. TIFF'S STARCH. TIFF'S STARCH. 1 TIFF'S 7'' ARCH. STIFF'S STARCH. TIFFS STARCH. STIFF'S STARCH. gTIPP'S STARCH. TIFF'S STARCH. TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF S STARCH. ' TIFF'S STARCH. STIFF Co., Rsdcliff Sthbet, Bristo NOTICE. Stiff's Stakcu is sold iu 4 lb. I lb., A lb., au.l i lb. fancy boxes, also iu paper packets, coutaiu-iug about 5 lbs. each. Every box or packet bears the Trade Mark, Queen Bess.' This Trade Mark has been registered, and is a guarantee that the con tents of the box or packet are genuine. A good deal of Starch is sold loose-that is, merely wrapped in paper or enclosed iu paper bags. .Starch supplied iu this way may be a cheap aud very inferior article, possibly of foreign manufacture, and of little use for laundry purposes. Con sumers, therefore, wher purchasing Stiff's Starch should get it in a box on packet, and note the Trade Mark printed in red ink on outside. Illustrated Humour, 'E R w o a -Q fn.hiofis oft he grieves Last night they put him in rage. He sat behind two new fall sleeves Aud couldn't see the stage. Why do they call the living skeleton the Napoleon of the Museum ? '' Because he is the bony part of the show.'' AN BMEBQ1SNCY MAN. Office Imp Please, sir, the fo'man says we're outen copy. Editor Oat of copy J Well, tell him to mix up that tea-tasting article with that Dresden China essay- head it War in Korea, and let her go. HEADED THE WRONG WAY. Ihis getting iuto debt is a bat'scheme. Yon ought to pay as you go. I'd like to but I'm always going broke, The Editor's Table. Absent Ybt Present, by Gilbert M. T Lyon, 3 vols., London Digby, Long, and Co. We were able to speak in very high praise of Misa Lyon's former story, For Good or Evil. This, however,is far better and mnst be elasaed amongst the best books of ths season. The writer has conspicuous talents in her de scription of the scenery whither she guides ns in the portraiture of the characters with which she peoples her story, in the varied pleasantries and troublous periods which go to make up the delightful romance which she unfolds in her pages, we are enchained by the most sympathetic ties, until the fortunes of hero and heroine are spun out to their satisfactory issues. It would be a misfortune to those who might accept our verdict and ask at the library for this fasoiuating book, were wo to reveal i,he plot, but it will add to the anticipations of local readers if we state that a large portion of the locale is at or near Teignmoutb, the little town coming in for a quaintly interesting description. From firvt to last the book is continuously pleasing and bright tilers is not a dull page. The only disappointment is that a careless printer's reader has overlooked several stupid blunders. E ADES £NOUT JJIIEUMATIC piLLS. JADE'S piLLS. TRADE'S piLLS. JADE'S piLLS. lead, and is S lid everywhere a , and 4s td or direot from ■ manufacturer -MOREL'S SOVRAN DEPOT, r •ANELLY, S. WALES. f'i OUT lx pHEUMATISM H'UT w ► HEUMATISM H RiGin INCREASED •out f ar of detection by Pinet's Can 6e tvt.rn in any Boot or London, Medal, Pari#. Caution-only iv Pinet, Bernor'Hjtreet, JLondou, W Pamphlet and i Stamp. Pieaae mention tint K KHY -MAN n Nervous and Physical Debility ■r a valuable pamphlet explaining is and organic derangement mil v treated without stomach medica ♦bod is easy and pleasan , and will t ard permanent cure. Font scaled ddreK.s E. Norton, 249 , High ion. W.C. V ORTH £5 P or. I. ve tried all k of Ointments an ged from the Hospital as jncPbabu, use T K P H E N S s n sit CKT.FBKATRD FAMILY CERATE. vniveml Ointment will cure the m wI t roc ricers even of 20 years' statid-t . W.r ds. Sore Eyes. Bad Broken • x , F re Nipples, Sore Throats, Cuts, Ses • I ms. Scalds, Children's Br d Head , -vt, it through Vaeeination, Stiff Joints, Scorbutic Kmp'ions, Dandriff vparlica • wet and the hair falls off . Chapped •j r t I.in , Chilblains, and almost every external disease. ar • ..nt or irrpurityof the blood is suspected -- # pl ens' ptirifyiug Specific or Blood Pills, e blood, give tone and rt '.be heart, restore to health debilitated -v r rf, and will greatly a ist the Family #■ n curing the most dauger Ha Ulcers, ever y' rears standing. LI in BOXES. Is l d, 2s 9d, 4s Cd, 11s earl Tb fol.'owinz extracts from numerous Testi . . of which the strictest scrutiny is invited, more to ensure it a favourable reception ct #ni!ogium of the proprietor -Yr Stephens, S r,- I have no hesitation in T -5 t! rt your Family Vrate is worth £5 a pot. Hinder it saved my leg from amputation. Ben axsin Cocks, 7, Martin-street, Ply-tb. says •-Your Ointment has given me a having cored it of 16 ulcers in the space fortnight. j .chief officer of Vastguards.Cawsand, that having been under eight different it x d dneharftd Iran three hoasdtala as in . be received a complete cure with cn's Family Cerate from a bad leg of 18 w staodiag. Woodward, The Parade, Plymouth, will r .of d to testify tr complete cure of bis • bead and faoe, which were covered with '--is. and four doctors could not cure. - b'jadreda of families the name of this Qint-a household word, and everyone should w '• . atria!. N . in Pou, Is. l d., 2s. Sd., 4s. 0d., and llo. by moat QiemisU, or by Post for two extrs saying by taking the larger SIZE. 7 eae Pots contain nearly double the Quantity oiber advertised ointments, which is a greet to the public. AGENTS. Mr Potting, Chemist, Exeter. Mr Bathe, Cbemist, Torquay. Mr Rawlings, Chemist, Torquay. Mr BibbiDgs, Chemist, Newton Abbot. Mr Curtis, Chemist, Totnes. Mr St -.Tart, Chemist, Kingsbridge. Mr Hadlkld, 'hemist, Dartmouth. Mr Francis, Chemi.'t, Yeovil. Mr. Hickinfr, Chemist, Barnstaple. Mr Evans, Chemist, Ashburton. Mr Watts, Chemist, Dorchester. Mr Evans, Chemist, Teignmoutb. Mr Dyt i Chemist, Horn ton. I Wtlli.ijrtoD, The Cuymist, Teuton. Ulcaale-W Sutton 'and Co., Cheswell L'tiucn. Messrs. Lynch and Oo., Aid#rs 1-i.ndo .. Evans, Uadd, aud Cc. luler. r KFAl D OH1T IT JI.H DREW', Tate J. 1 STEPHEN , h. JEWELL STh V PLY O JTH, THE FIRST TWO PILLS TOOK THE PAIN AWAY. 2, Col lege Park Villas, Konsxl Green, I .-on don, W., May, 189. Dear Sir,-I feel it my duty to tell you I had Rheumatic Gout once, and had to stop at home for three weeks. I can not describe the pain I suffered. I read your advertisement, and looked upon it as all others. A brother signalman said, Try them.'' I did so. THE FIRST TWO PILLS TOOK THE PAIN AWAY in a few hours, and I was able to resume my work. No one need be frightened to take them. I have recom mended them to all whom I have heard complaining of Rheumatism,Gout,Lum bago, Neuralgia, c. I hope no one will doubt my state ment.-Yours sincerely, JAS. PETTENGALL. Mr. G. Bade. EADE'S GOUT AND RHEUMATIC PILLS Prepared by George Fade, 72, Goswell-road, E C. and sold by all Chemists iu bottles. Is l£d and 2s 9d. EADE'S GOUT AND RHEUMATIC PILLS. THE BEST MEDICINE FOR BILE, THE BEST MEDICINE FOR WIND, THE BEST MEDICINE FOR INDIGESTION, is JADE'S NTIBILIOUS J ILLS. They quickly remove the irritation and feverish state of the stomach, correct the morbid condition of the liver, relieve the system of all impurities, which, by circulating in the blood, injuriously affect the action of the kidxkys, and, by removing the causes of ho much discomfort restore the vital energies of body and mind. FADES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS. Sold by all Chemists in Boxes. Is l£rd and 2s 9d, or mailed Free on receipt of remittance by GEORGE BADE, 72, Goswkll-road, London , EC. EADES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS. A SISTtoR'3 DUTY, Miss Mittens What doe this mean, sir? Mr. Brothjrton Oh, tins? are just a few socks, uuder-clothes, coats. e. that need meuding you promised last night that you would always bo a sister to me, aud my sister used to do all ray mending before she married. SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT. Mr. Oldbear Now, please don't give me that old chestnut about being a sister. Miss Vera Young You mistake me, sir! I was merely about to remark that i am willing to be a widow to you. NOT AN AUTHORITY. Hockley How do you think a lady should dres9 for bicycle riding? Hodley I don't know I never saw a lady dre33. i A SURE INDICATION. Business 9 business. Whom have you cheated ? R KOUXD DEAD. ATS KILLED WITH SANFORD'S POISON .-Fiirme s that have used it say it is the best Poison, as they find a lot of Rats dead by usina it.-Post free Is 2d, 2s, 3s box, of Sandford and Son, Sandy, Beds. Send stamps and try it I Sold by Chemists. Also Mice Poison • dressing corn stacks. Wholesale of Evans, Gadd and Co , Exeter. D EAF Persons should be told of the New Invention for curing Deafness it is a small Ear Trumpet and Artilical Drum com bined, worn in the ears invisibly. Sent on pay ment of lialf-prieo balance when cured . Descriptive Treatise, three stamps.-Leigh and Richardson, 225, Upper Book-street, Man chester. 'VT'OUR EYES, if they are weak, sore, Jl inflamed, or bloodshot, should he bath id daily with • OPTIC LOTION. This remedy improves weak sight, also preventing the need of spectacles for children. Sent free for 2s 9d,with valuable information on the eyes.-Address Richardson, specialist, 27, Brazenose-street, Manchester. _ B ronchitis, asthma, Cons iiNpton Throat Deafness, Catarrh, Sore Throats, Colds, etc., cured by new remedy used by Eminent Medical Specialist for these diseases. Harmless and pleasant to use. Sent with full directions for treatment, 2s 9d post free. Richardson, Specialist, 27, Brazenose-street, Manchester. Ort TOBACCONISTS COMMENCING . Write for Hid. Guide to the trade 259 pages , 3d. How to open a Cigar Store from £20 to £2,000. Tobacconists' Outfitting Co , 186, E ston-road, London. N.B.-Shop-fitter aud show esse makers for ail trades. Katimates free.-Manager, H xpt Myebi. Eat. 1886. ______ M ARRIED LADIES.-Information of Priceless Value Free sen' 1 -mped envelope.-Mrs. Lawrence, 4, Brn y ceet, Sheffield. Name this paperh ADIES' Ailments, irregularities, obstruc-tions. e. The advertiser have tried every known remedy in vain, has discovered a simple mean of aelf-cure. Particulars will be sent free of charge Write privately, enclosing stamped envelop to Mrs. St. Clair, 46, Souihampton-buildings, London, W.C. Blessing ! Free, two stamps. Handy illustrated guide and pi ice list of ladies' requirement . Saves time, trouble, and expense. Invaluable information -Publisher, 35. C'oiston-etreet, Bristol. An M.D. writes -Smartly written book. Mention paper. I MPORTANT TO LADIES.-The most wonderful medicine ever discovered for all iriegu'ari.ie . aud obstructions,however obstinat or long-standing. Thousands have been relieved by tins miraculous remedy, and thereby saved trouble, illness, and exp life. Perfectly harm less, aud astonishingly effectual, os testified to by hundreds of married and single females. Numerous unsolicited testimonials Pills alone are useless aud oniy bring disappointment. Stamped addressed envelope for price list. The only aifeclual remedy on earth. Try and judge for vouraelvea.-A.Dosmail, 370, Laugiale, Valtl anurtow, EaUbliihed 1861 LET WELL ALONE. Insurance Agent When you get it done, let me give you my rates. Our company insure nil classes of building . Farmer Diggit You can insure it if yea really want to but I don't think it'll burn up very soon. We're a-diggin' a well ! Johnny There's one thing curious abeut discovering place that I don't understand. Teacher What's that ? Johnny Take Bermuda, for instance. It was discovered by a man named Bermudez, but bow he stumbled on a place with a name like his own, beats me ! A STRONG RECOMMENDATION. Customer These are the bpst cigars you have, eh? G Dealer Those are the kind I give to the policeman on the beat. Ilf L A PURELY BUSINESS MOTIVE. Mr. Lozing Hope May l--may I speak to your father, Miss Culc ? Miss Vera Co 'e It is useless, Mr. Hops I can never be your wife. Mr. Hope Excuse me, I visited to ask him to return me tbo twenty pounds he borrowed from me I'm getting a Utileanxiousabout it A DISAPPOINTING CIRCUMSTANCE. Traveller enquiring at Feudal Cast! Can I see tlie aniiquities to-dsy ! Servant I am afraid not, sir. My lady aud her daughter have gone to town. ENOUGH SAID. YVoman Lawyer What is your age? Woman Witness I was born in the same year as yourself. Woman Lawyer Witness etcused. SELF-DEFENCE. Justice What were you doing in Colonel Gauderbv s chicken coop ? I'ncleMos Shur', yo' honoh, he frettened to tah nh' fedder me. an' I was tryin' to mek sech a ting onpoasible. L J ADIES' Poweu'.'s Balsam o' A isssd.-For Couohi. j Powell's Balsam of AniseeL Asthma. Powell' Balsam of Aniseed. Bronchi is. Powell's Balsam of Auiseed. Hoa s ne s. j Powell's Balsam of Auiseei. Lung Troubles, Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Night Coughs. Powell's Balsam of Anisted. Influenza. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed Relieved Instantly. Powell's Ba sain of Aniseed. Safe and Reliable. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Established?! years Powell's Balsam of Aniseed, infuse Imitations. Powell's Ba'sam of Aniseed. Sold by ' nu.istx. Power's Be. sun of Anisted- Trnfe Marl . Powell's Balsam of Anis ed. Lion, Net, Mouse. Powell s Balsam i f Aniseed. Is ljd, 2 3d, 4s Sd, aud V s per bottle. During lust months 41 certificates of naturalization were granted to aliens by the Home Secretary under the provisions of the Naturalization Act, 1370. At a meeting under the auspices of the Anti-Gambling Lencue at Birmingham on Tuesday night, a resolution in favour of local coutivl of racecourses was lost by a large majority. Tlie audience refused to hear Mr. Hawke, the socretary of the League, and the meetihg broke up in disorder. 'J hr Phesidino Goddess ox Washing Day is now VENUS SOAP. It precervM clothing and ym rubbing. CEYLINDO CETLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINTO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN TEA. PERFECTION IN TEA may be attained in oue way only-by skilfully bleudiug the choicest growths of Ceylon, India, and other Tea producing countries. Ceylindo is composed en tirely of high class Toss, and is pro claimed by Con noisseurs to be THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN TEA. Per Is Od lb. Pep Is 3d ib. Pep Is 6d Ib. CEYLINDO includes no Tea which docs not possess some dis tinctive good qual ity. Tothedelicious flavor of the Coylcn is added the rich creaminess of Indian and other Teas the whole being so harmoni ously blended that the result is A PERFECT TEA Pep Is Od lb-1 Pep Is 3d Ib. Per Is 6d Ib, THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN TEA. CEYLINDO DE LUXE. Per Is Pep 2s CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO There are frequent ly imported some very choice parcels of Tea of Fancy quality, which are invariably tested by the Proprietors of CEYLINDO, and for those con noisseurs who wish for such excep tionally luxurious and delicious Teas, they are obtainable under the brand of Ceylindo de Luxe. Pep Is 9d Ib. Pep 2s Od Ib. CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLfNDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE Tho Ladies' Letter. TOQUE of mink fttr is the subject of t r sketch in F'g 1 this week. If is aimply trimmed r.y a scarf of delicate creamy lace twisted round, terminating in high fan bows at the left sido. and fastened by a rather large paste buckle. Some of these fur and lace toque have bunches of violets tucked in, and this flower seems likely to run the risk of losing its boasted modesty of disposition, to much flattering attention is again being shown it quite half the hats and bonnets being trimmed with violets just now, In addition to evening gowns, jabots, and all sorts of toilette odds end ends. Chrysanthe mums aris a good deal used, mauve especially. Black chrysanthemums, too, have been in troduced, and many of these flowers are cleverly made in velvet, and have a very pretty effect for winter millinery. rrfiii V, IN THE WORLD r OF BEAUTY Jticma IS SUPREME Not only Is it the most effective skin puri fying and beautifying soap in the workl, but It is the purest, fweetret, and most refresh ing for toilet, bath, and nursery. It is Bo because it strike at the cause of bad com plexions, falling hair, and simple baby blem ishes, viz. the Clogged, Iriiitated. In flamed. Overworked, or Sluggish Pork. Sold everywhere. Price, Is. F. Nswbsrt Sons, 1, King KUward-at,, London, E. O. The Alleged Forged Telegrams. At Bow-street on Thursday William Cooper telegraphist William Macintosh,telegraphist, Louis Sturman, telegraphist George Holloway, hairdresser James Hatch-man, William Luetchford, greengrocer Charles Wilson, waiter, and Henry Wilson, traveller, were oharged on remand with con spiring to obtain money by forged telegrams. Henry Wilson did not surrender to bail, consequently a warrant was issued. John Foster, telegraph ist, deposed that he gave Sturman the names of winners in important races. Defendant were remanded. FtJB AND LACE TOQUE. FIG. 1. Turbans aie to be worn for evening dress this winter an annouuccment producing aws and trembling, till we find they will bear no resemblance to the fearful and wonderful erections worn by ladies some sixty or seventy year back, which, in addition to a mighty swathing of gauze, silk, and muslin, were decorated with anything in the way of gorgeous jewels or feathers up to a bird of paradise. The up-to-date turban will be quite small, and really like the veiy pretty Cloohss de Corneville caps, worn also for evening about ten years ago. In Fig. 2 we have a very becoming blouse, In deep red bengaline, trimmed with jet passementerie. This pretty bodice is tucked over the shoulders, from whence it ia allowed to go free over the bust, then tucked again at the waist, and loose once more below. The tabs of jetting passing between each row of tucks terminate in jet fringe, which also finishes the same at threat and wrists. The sleeves, it will be seen, are of Bishop pattern, with rows of jet passementerie placed perpen dicularly. Sold by specially appointed Distributive Agents throughout the Kingdom. Mould difficulty he experienced in o'daminj Ceylindo in any particular District, the Pro prietors will, on Application to their Depot, Mitch Square, London, E.C., famish the name and address of the Aoentfor such District, Somebody once asked Oscar Wilde which two books had had the greatest influence npjn the English language. The Bible, and -Bradshaw, was the reply. Will Wash Clothes, clean paint, scrub floors, do any household work. VaNUfl SOAP saves rubbing. Mr.Justice Williams made an order on Thurs day for the compulsory winding up of the Bank of South Australia. The petition was pre sented by the Union Bank of Australia, who had taken over all the assets and liabilities of the Bank of South Australia, and nowclaimed as creditors for over £350,000, which they said they had paid in excess of what they had received. When MATCHLESS CLEANSER SOAP is used MATCHLESS CLEANSER has swept away A thousand worries of Washing Day, At Liverpool on Wednesday a man who gave the name of John Smith, alias W. Webb, belonging to London, was remanded on a charge of breaking into eleven churches in the city and suburbs and stealing various articles, including contents of money boxes. William Thomas Patterson was also remanded at Liverpool on a charge of threatening to hoot a policeman. Prisoner was caught loitering near the judge's residence with afull-loaded revolver about the time the justices were passing for assizes. A STYLISH BLOUSE. FIG. 2 This design would look equally well in any material pliant enough to allow of the tuck ing. Velvet blouses are charming for winter wear, but would not make up welliu a tucked design of this kind, as it would make the waist so thick. Crepou is undoubtedly the material just now of fancy kinds. In addition to the Wave Mohair ' we have previously chroni cled, two fnrther introductions are now being used for winter gowns, the Oaracuille end the Bark crepons. The latter is, as its name suggests, an imitation of the bark of a tree the undulations being about the same size as those of a medium size tree bark. Such pronounced patterned fabrics as i h so should be most sparingly trimmed, and ot the various trimmings bow ait fait velvet is the best of any. Sentence of Death. Sarah Ann Albery, 34, sinade woman, was sentenced to death at Nottingham Assizes on Thursday for murdering her child, sovebzeeu months. Prisoner on the day preceding the crime had been taxed by her mother as to her condition. She left home and walked into tte river Trent. The baby was drowned, but prisoner was rescuscitated. The jury made a strong recommendation to mercy. It was proposed to empanel a jury of matrons, but the Judge held that It was unnecessary, pro mising that effect should be given to the recommendation of the jury. Arrest of a Supposed Housebreaker at Barnstaple. On Wednesday at the Barnstaple Borough Police Court-before Messrs. S. Goss, W. Curtis, and W. Fisher-Arthur Clair Farrell, an apprentice to the wood turning business, at Barnstaple, was brought up and oharged on suspicion with breaking iuto and entering the refreshment - room of the Grea Western Railway Station on the morning of November 30th and stealing therefrom four packets of tobacco, value Is 8 i, the property of Mr William T rr, of the King's Arms Hotel. -Mr J Bosson prosecuted on behalf of the police, and Mr A F Seidon defended.-A boot was found in the room on the night in question, which belonged to the 4 h Devon Militia. It was proved that prisoner belonged to the Militia, and had worn home a boot something similar to it. A remand was granted nutil next week, and bail was granted in £20 for prisoner and a surety in £20 St, Thomas Local Board. High-class High-class High-class High-class High-class Mazawattee Mazawattbb Mazawattee M 7 A WATTLE Mazawattee Coffee. Coffee. Coffee. Coffee. Coffee, Atl 1 6,1 8 and 2 - per Ib. of a l leading grecar At a concert given this week at Wellington Salop , Mr. W. Peplow, of Sliifnal, who is in his 101st year, presided, and contributed to the entertainment by singing Scatter seeds of kindness. The old gentleman was present at Waterloo. BURDWOOD'S WINO PILLS.-The never failing remedy for Iudigestion, Wind Spasms Habitual C stiven ss, Palpitation of the heart Pains iu the head, Siokhcadacbe, Giddiness Sluggish Liver, and Stomach Complaints. Sole proprietor, R. H. Rendle, M.P.8., Chemist, Albert-road Devonport. Sold by all Chemists.at is ljd 2s9d. aud 4s 6d cer box Sert post free. An offer by Mr. Henry Yal.es Thompson to erect, at a cost, of about £10,000, a conserva tory in Safton Park, the only condition being that it should be opened on Sundays as well as on weekdays, war, on Wednesday accepted by the Liverpool City Council. A new pianist, by name Rosenthal, will arrive in London next spring lliiexecution and physical strength are stupendous, and they say that what he dogs not know about piano playing is not woctfi Knowing. A Choice Present. as A Choice Pretend -■ -XMAh'. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE TEA XMAS. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE 1KA In S-lb Hampers, all Prices. Of LEADIN'! Gbqcebs Evehyvthebe, costume in dark crepon. fig. 3. Our design in Fig. 3 is a modish gown of dark Indigo Baik crepon, with a cape en, suite, cut in the newest mode quite to the shape of the shoulders. The sole trimming, it will be seen, consists of a panel of velvet the same shade on left side, over the upper part of which falls a frou-frou of the material and velvet the cape being finished by a ruffle of velvet, and revers and frou-frou of alternate crepou and velvet. Mrs. Patrick Campbell s covtume in John-a'-Dreams,'' at ths Haymarkct, call for no special comment beyond the inconsistency of wearing tables in a Midsummer scene but Miss Steer wears a noiable one. in tba first act, of pink satin, shading from deep from the skin upward to very pale the skirt being covered in black and moonlight sequins, to imitate the marking of a serpent and a charming little velvet cape of old rose donned afttrwards. The enormous amount of black now being worn in Paris in courtesy to Russia is a -oarco of considerable chagrin to the shop keepers and modistes, who bud prepared themselves with a wealth of lovely-coloured fabrics of all kinds for the winter sraeon especially a this assumption of mourning often of the most coquettish description threatens to last some time. The rage for petri there just now is tre mendous for evening wear, the jewellers finding quite a difficulty in meeting the demand. The two new extra women of the bed chamber iust appointed at Windsor are the Hon. Csrwtoe Cavendish and Lady Cowell the salajfy is £300 a year. A Choice PreSent, A Choice Present. XMAS. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTKB TEA XMAS. HARPERS OF MaZAWaTTEB TEA In S-lb Hampers, all Prices, Or Loading Grocers Evrrywhbsi. Mr. Mark Farrant presided over the meet ing of tbo St. Thomas Local Board on Wedner. day. Those also present were Messrs. R Heath, J. Stocker, Densham, Clogg, and J Tucker. Surveyor's Report. The Surveyor Mr. Churchward reported thai, at a meeting of the Gas Committee to con sider whether any alteration should be made 1 1 Jhe t'me for extinguishing..,the public rSmp the matter was deferred for the con sideration of the new Board.-Mr. Stocker said the committee thought the extended time was necessary, but had deferred it so that it might not be said that it bad been done for electioneering purposes. - Mr. Churchward further reported that there was one patient in the Saattorinm. As directed at the last meeting, he had prepared plans and estimate for an outfall sewer from the present works to the river Exe at Duck's Marsh and Countess Weir. With reference to the latter scheme, the length of the sewer was 3,572 yards with an inclination of one in 900. The cost of this scheme would be£5,000. in the Duck's Marsh scheme the length of ths sewer was 2,337 yards with an inclination of one in 900. The cost of this scheme would be £3,550. Sir Redvers Bullcr was proceeding very slowly in the connection of his drains to the main sewer on the other sido of the mill leat -It was decided to submit the two sewage schemes as alternatives when the Local Government Board enquiry takes place.-On the motion of Mr. Tucker, seconded by Mr Densham, it was decided that Sir Redvers Buller be summoned. The Last Act Vote3 of Thanks. Mr. Heath, in moving a vote of thanks to tho Chairman for his conduct in the chair, said the manner in which he had conducted the Board's business reflected the greatest credit on him. Sinco he the speaker ' had been on the Board-about twenty-seven years-a lot of business had been done, and the manner in which it had boon carried out had prevented them spending a single £5 note in needless expen diture.-Mr. Stocker seconded. In all his public life nothing had given him greater pleasure than the way in whioh tbe r business had besn conducted If what had been called tho young gang would take a losson from the old gang it would be all as it ought to be. After fifty years the Board would, in a few days, tease to exist, and he thought no Board in the land could show better results than they. Their experience bad been unique, for during all those years there had only been three chairmen-Mr. WentworthBuller, Mr. Robert Taylor Pinn , and, for the last twenty-five years, Mr. Farrant-and during twenty-five years they hail only had two clerk . He believed it was thirty years ago that verv day that Mr. Champion was appointed Anything in praise of him would boeuperflaoua The Surveyor was a very good man, and he had good men under him.-The motior was carried unanimously.-Mr. B'arrant thanked the members most heartily for the kind mauufer in which they had spoken of bin,and for their kindness to him during the time he had presided Over them. Ho heartily concurred in Mr.Stocker's remarks regarding the officers. Mr. Chitmpion had shown himself a master of finance and the extension of their water works, the magnificent flitcr-beds, second to none in England, jvere a credit to Mr. Choroh-ward, to the parish, and to the Board. It was with the grealeit possible regret that he saw that several of his old trieods had not again cams forward. F. C. Bond,licensed victualler of Plymouth, has been adjudicated a bankrupt. Venus k Clean, Wan Linen.-VENl'S SOAP WKshes white and pure, all fabrics. VENUS SOAP saves rubbing. There is a report in Paris that Captain Dreyfus has escaped from prison. The death is announced of Miss Victoria Vokes, the last of the family attbeage ot 41. The Royal Yacht Squadron has sent a challenge for the America Cup on behalf of Lord Dunraven. Hich-class Mazawattee Coff k. High-class Mazawattee Coffee. High-ci.ass Mazawattee Coffer. Hiuh-v Mazawattee Coffee. Hum Mazawattee Coffee. At 1 4 1 G, 1.- pvrll. Of leading grocer The Right Hon. 4.. J. Mundella is to visit Sheffield for the purpose of addressing his constituents on the 15th inst. Intelligence from the Afghan frontier is that the headmen of the Mashud Wazirus are disposed to come to terms vith the British Commander. Xmas. Hampers! Xmas. Hampers! DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAR DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS In S-lb Xn ai. Hampers, all Prices. Of Leading Grocers Everywher
EXETER FLYING POST, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1SH F- CVw 4 ftl m? THE PARi8H COUNCILS. first Psrish-Meeting iaaecordance u tee Local Government Act of 1894 were i tbroof noat tbe country on Wednesday, •ving 1 particular relating to these • is tbe West. The poll, where demanded ate place on the 18th instant, and the . meeting of the Connell wilt be held ta 27th Where there no poll tbe first •tree i hied for the 13tb initant. AXXtNSTBB. . rte-oee nomination paper ware handed asd eventually a poll was demanded. ASHBURTON. I a Tucker presided, and there were ,.ose candidate for Sfteen seat , two rawing A ebow of hand resulted a ,. W Irish, gentleman, 88 , G C Foot , £tnt. 32 J Honey will, labourer, 75 J ier. accountant, 85 White, china - at, 65 F Yale . merchant, 64 J P - it r merchant, 63 T IT Mann, coal --, ct.S5. 1 Laraason.brush manufacturer i,. dye. auctioneer, 49 P F Amsry-it'., 48 J H Foaden, contractor, 45 - -vertor. farmer,44 T Lamshead.farmer, C b IVotten. baker, 34. A poll was ALMtlXGTON. -.R v E J. G. Dupuis proeided, and the , rc non-iaation were handed in .. Brewer, labourer William G Cole , ■ - G IV Dvmond, farmer W H Dadd, -r . G P Fitch, brewer James wi rg . farmer James Hitching , • F T Lorain, farmer W Leach, - r.. J London, shodnaker J W - K-istocaster C Marks, coachman - coachman J R R Mitchell, market -err H J Newberry, dairyman • r. Perkin , builder John Pike, .I a c Richard , farmer A Smith, . A J Scene , baker E Tucker, , -d viotnaller R White, farmer F t. , tanner and T K Wippell, tanner, • • was taken, but a poll was demanded. RRADNISCH. .!. 1A veil piesided, and for twelve . ' veaty-two nomination were handed in ■ as demanded. 11RAUNTOS. f -. lowing were nominated Messre. Clarke. Cano, Dyer, Ellicott, Harper Howard, Harlnoll, Johns, Lamprey, Mansion, Mason, Middleton, Palmer, ... Prim. Pngsley, Slee.Snow, fiiuimons, - i noma , Webber, Yeo, and Itaac . . certain. BICXLSiGH. r Smart Hall presided. Fourteen rate were nominated, nnd the following were elected W T Baskerville, W G • V F W Hawker. John King, J B WCowling,and G Cann. BOW. • presided. A show of hands was t . of Messrs Havcroft, Ponsfcrd, Grant. Wreford, Powlesland, Howe, zd Bowden, butapoll was demanded. rnURSTON FEE -JBS ■-VC Simpson. J.P., presided. eight vacancies to fid, and tbe show of . suited n favour of Messrs Doble OMrieve, Pearce, Toros, Toms, and Missis Wairen and Gill being equal . _- ..r place The chairman gavd his favour of the former. Mr Beer then .Aided a poll. kediton hamlets. the following were proposed and -William Tremiott, farmer, Holla-Samuel Snell, farmer, Kcymeltord - i jon l. butcher, Yeoford William t unish. farmer, Blnneford and Burnett, ltbourer, Holbtcombe. • -nv.s were nominated at Uookway, a show of hands the following four v cu. Henry kl. Mallett, 22 Daniel . i i 21 Lewis Look, 20 Richard r.c. 1 -.0 ..rates we e elected as follow at 7 7. Poue Spencecombe , John s la'jcarcr !, and W. C. Milton post-CULI.O UPTON. • M Kaiicy wa elected chairman, and j . . ou nominations had been handed . Messrs J F Baker, pnjier-4 FSBC 1 . 1 11 Barer, jeweller C B Kwens, It Farruni, vi-oman W Fore-, l r • for.'n.an Her G Forrester, V'car m t i M . rs M I Foster, chorai t A 1 ' ach builder W K Gillard, axle I ,• t Granger carpenter T P Grant, W Jb ■ JTT , -f Fee m M -W J A Gran, J.P. Billeirsdon v 'ivert-n-lane , mechanic in axle W .1 Heard, postmaster E Labdon, E Lawrence. jon., farmer W A L tw-m -r F Leach, foreman in jitper H l.'.oyd. physician and surgeon T . c tchbullhcr C 1? Mackia, gentle-Mar.field, gentleman T Mitchell, ! Perkin , retired tin-plate worker n wsr.gent C Quick, porter J layne Barton t. farmer C Reynolds • and meiclient. J Sansoin, bi.ot, v sellvood. Tanner C Taylor, mason r tnasor, . . J Upcott, merchant s 1'pcott, gsn.leu.an. 'lhe Rev G er Mr IV J A Grant, and Mr W wuh lrew Iron. nomination. Voting • . but a poll was demanded. DAWI.ISH. e v. ere nine members to be elected, but ■ rations were handed in. The show - resulted as follows JohnOibson, omss Scarl . 28 John Gopplestone 27 . .Ume lioisham, 27 Richard 74 . the Rev C K Francis Renthell, i.am Waterfield. 22, William Adams, 15 John Carpenter, u ' Lee, 5 Colonel F F Lyster, 0. rving demaiideii, the first nine red elected. KXM1NRTKK. Kekewich presided, and the following were banded in Lewis Aggett, u. i , Henry Diew, Veauiore Cottage r. .Maiford Home Fnrio William £. , View Cottages Rlouard Lee, .aim Join filler, tho Village iVracomhe John, Tuck. Kxe -gos J homas William Strong, I ilrmion Robert Trood, Matford I ipprll, barton Farm. TheCliairmau, interval declared these elected. HAAVITHRA. a large uieetiug at the Boys' !. Mr. Alderman Burch, J P., li e o ialr, and, alter a brief explain- j i iin- course o piocedure, united . ir.- to be sent in. Tnis was do.iC. , iinuaii declared that ail ihe tpersi ,1 with the exception ot that o -~h® Mr. John Capron, who was norsi-■pt d as ,r District Councillor instead of a Pariah Councillor. On bearing tba announcement a shout of laughter went up, and Mr. Oapron coming forward said, .You bare not irononneed rightly. -The Chair man I don't nnderstanl yon. Yoq or lotnsoM else hara filled np the wrong nomina tion paper, and therefore I declare it invalid. -Mr, Capron I bow to yonr decision, Cheers and langhter. -The Chairman the informed the meeting that twenty-two nominations had been reoeived for fifteen seats.-Questions were then invited, and Mr. Wilson said be had a few te ask.-The Chair man 1 shall be 1 appy to put them, but don't let us have too much we don't want to •tay here until to-morrow morning.-The first Question by Mr. Wilson was Will you vote last all public meetings of tbe Parish Connells shall be held in the evening ? Hear, hear. Most of the candidates expressed themselves in favour of this. ~' r he •eeoad question was Will you vote for a parish reading room, a lectur and entertain ment ball, together with a recreation-ground for Hsavitret. One of the candidates nid I will do all that, but the first thing I should like to see is the streets to be put in order. Mr. Battishill declined to pledge himself.-Colonel Vaugbao said the Council would only have tbe management of something like £300 a year if they wishad to spend more they bad to com to the parish meeting. -Mr. Evans wss in favouf of the proposal, but thought it should ,be brought before the ratepayer .-The third question was whether the Candi da es would vote for the working meu acquiring allotments within reasonable distances of their homes, and the price to be proportionate to that paid per acre by tenant farmers and dairymen. Tne majority of the candidates replied In the affirmative to ifii query, as also to one relating to whether the ohanties of tbe pat ieh would oe thoroughly investigated and impartially admiuistered irrespective of party or creed. - The Chairman then took a show of hands for all the candidates. The result wasW H Coombes, builder, 146 Rev 3 ri Berkeley, vicar, 134 Mr 11 Mill, juur, market gardener, 127 Eieutenaut-Caioncl Vaugban, 126 W Buruett, shoemaker, 111 A Brooking, gentleman, 110 VV J iiaUishill, solicitor, 104 V VY Evans, coal merchant, 104 6 Pennell, gentleman, 103 C H Bampfylde, iron founder's foremau, 101 J Adams, farmer, 98 J Melhuisb, bricklayer, 98 K Bnow, farmer, 98 C Sclater, nursery man, 93 K James, gardener, 92. 'Tlie followiini were unsuccesslul -MrGBurridge 87 Mr P J Liddell85 Mr A G Pyle 42 Mr Haymab 5f Mr J Sampson 32 ltev T Woodcock 31, Rev G M Wilson 6.-The cbkiiman asked if anyone demanded a poll. Mr G Haviil demanded a poll on behalt ot tbe ltev G M Wnson, but he afterwards with drew. The chairman after wailing ten minutes without any demand declared the foregoing 15 elected. They are the same gentlemen as were selected by the parish meeting except that Ur Buow takes the place of Mr Burridge. HIGHWKKK. Mr. W. Vicary was obairman. There were thirty - eight nomination papers handed in, five of were duplicated and two declared invalid.-A vote was taken in tbe rooni when the following were the first 12-J Oher 88 'TMeatiierdon, 75 I Vicary 72 1 Rodgers, 68 C S Vicary, 65 C Adams plumber , 63 -N Go s, 63 Rev Harris, 53 , iy 8 Pinsent, 51 G Irish, 60 M H Jurvi, 55 8 Mogudge, 44 R t'ascoe, 44 A poll was demanded by ibe Rev S Lytie on belialf of Mr W L ShiUton, which was, how ever afterwards withdrawn, but a poll was then demanded on behalf ot Mr H 8 Stevens. IDE. Mr J K C Walkey, J.C, was elected chair man. There are uine seats, and 25 nominations were halide! in us follows -Messrs J Braddon, J Blythe. IV C Chanuon, J Cauntet, W Cox gardener , W Cox baker , F C Gilpin, W Hale, E H Loye, H Milton, T Perkins, J I'iller, C W Ruddull, T Richards, W Satterly, j H Beane , K VYBoauei, Colonel IV Srnee, C Stone, J Tucker, J Tuckett, 11 Voysey, and E Wrigbt. On examination, Mr .7 Tucker was declared invalid, and there was one duplicate paper. A show of hands wr.s taken, nut a poll wus demanded. KINGSKtiBSWELI. A show of hands resulted as follows - E S Ford, 56 H J Crocker, 53 J Stook--. 52 1 Citei, 5i W Drew, 44 J Alisti ff, 41 l H Hicks, 38 S Hicks, 3f T WollaColt, 33 J Wollaoott, 33 Fioyo, 33 R Frenuli, 32 U A Loch, 30 U Fagan, 29 J J Wale, 25 B Lainbil.eul, 24 VV it Leader, 24 b Donuan, 24 J L Brown, 23 J Le-, tj a Ciiandh-r, 14 T Codiiar. 14 .1 11 Wilkinson,12 J Bcvey 10, W B Jenkihs, 61 and J B Maun, 6. Mr a Chandler demanded a poll on belialf of the female voters. KING8TB1UNTON. There ware 100 hoaiinations handed in, in favour of 42 candidates for the 13 seats. A show of hutlds was taken, but a poll is demands J. lymMtonb. Colonel Birch was appointed chairman,and 23 nomination papers were handed in, Inf these were reduced to 18. After voting a pod was demanded. UAKKli In the Millbroofc Ward, the ll v. W 11 Mil'ett presiding, there were forty-three nominations lor eleven seats. A show ot hands wus taken, hut a poll was demanded. NEWTON ST. CYBE8, The following were elected T Mai tinge farmer J Hallctl, labourer M Passmore, gentleman O Berry, farmer IV Coombe, miller G Har.oock, shoemaker J Parker, road contractor J Chudley, taller G Rowe, farmer, NOBTHTAWTON. Alderman Snell preti ied, and a show of hands was followed by a demand for a poll. NOBTHTA tVTON. There were 12 members to tie elected, and 23 nominations were hanled in. A poll was demanded. OKEI7AMPTON HAMLKTS Mr. C. Geen, J.P., was voted to the chair and n show of bunds resulted an follows R Madge, H Geeii, E P Nortbey, Brown, John King, It Walter . C Carr. These were declared elected, a demand for a poll by Mr G Ellis being withdrawn. PII.TON BARNSTAPLE . Mr IV Fisher was voted to the chair, and following eight were elected Messrs G tV F Brown solicitor ,J Daniel briekmakor , A Galliford painter , William Go mltltt . William H Harding wheelwright , Thomas Hoyles blacksmith , William Lemon mer chant , and E B Stcwell shoemaker , PINHOB. The following ware the selected candi dates Davey,working man Turner, farmer Carr, wine merchant Ford, working man Lake, farmer J. Elwortby, coal merchant Mills, working man D. Klworthy, market gardener J. Hartuoll, publican. A poll woe demanded. ' SAMPTORD PBVERIIL. Mr. J. Burrough presided, and after a show of iiands a poll was demanded. BOUTH BBBNT. Mr. T. Richards was appointed chairman, and thcrejwsrotwsnty-nine nominations The Rev. J. R. Walker demanded a poll after a ehhow of bunds ad been declared. SANDPOBD. Mr. A F. Davie was voted totheohair. Frr. eleven seats 23 were nominated, end a show, of liaads was followed by a demand for a poll. ST. LEONABD, K.YKTEK. There are only three county ratepayers in the parish. Mr. F. Thomas presided, and Mr. Mitchell proposed the Rev. J. F. Sheldon as parish chairman. Mr. Sheldon seconded this himself, and the meeting ended. SHERWOOD. The following wore elected A District Councillor, Mr George Toogood Parish Councillors-William Fry, mason Henry John Holman, smith YVilliam Melhuish, farmer James Harris Skiur er, farmer George Toogood, yeoman Philip Wheaton yeoman and . Henry Hugo Worthington, 'entleuiau. ST. BUDBAUX. Air. Henry Matthews ptesided, an! after a show of hands a poll whs demanded. TAVISTOCK. Mr. W E. Baker was voted to the chair. On a show of hands the voting vias Friend 180, Wiuney 163, Cocks '61, Alford 150, ahepperd 142, Kyall 134, Squire 123 Foster. 121, Martin 121, Htgmaiilll, Gill 105. Harris 105, Ash 97. Mr. V. Matthews demanded a poll. T JBKINOTON. Mrs. Oliver, Mrs. H. Pope, Mr. J. Jackson. Mr. T. C pp, aad Mr. T. Lock were nominated No poll was demanded. TOPSHAM. Mr AK Hamilton presided and aaid there had been 30 nomination papers sent in by Messrs L Alford, J Bartlett, B Bowden, T Chown, ti De isham. G Dickerson, Sir Dudley Duckworth-King.F Wilis, C Ferris, VV J Good man E Gale, 11 Gubb, A K Hamilton, S Flood T E Hopewell, W Lux ton, G May, G Mudge, G Murphy, L' H Periatu. K Pollard, G Pons-lord, G Pvne, W Potter, E Sannford K Tapley, E T rout, J Tuckett, F Underhill, N Wannell. A show of hands was taken, but a poll was demanded. POLLS DEMANDED. Polls were demanded, among other places, at Buckland Monxchorunj, L'oombeintcign-head, Egg Buckland, Ermimrton, Kingswear, Upton Pyno, Willand. br. A D m TOJV' 3-i LL Eaton H a I i. cywa f rfE- f Eaton Hall, where is lo take place the marriage between Prince Anolphus of Teck and Lady Alargaret Grosvenor, daughter of the Duke of Westminster, is some four miles from Chester, in the midst of the lovely Dee-side scenery. It is an estato that came into the possession of the Grosvenors in the fifteenth century, by the marriage of Rsufe de Grosvenor witli Joan, the daughter and heiiesg of John Eaton. Tho family have always been lucky iu love, foi the great Pimlico jroperty, which now brings in enor mous sums to tho Duke, and will ete long return still more, was the marriage portion of Mary liavieU, daughter of one Alexander Davies, of Elrom Manor, Middlesex. Het son, Sir Robert Groeveror, lived at Peterborough House, on a site which has since been occu pied by Slillbaok Prison, and is now vacant. It bad belonged, to ihe Mordaunts, Earls of Peterborough, and the last of them, the eccenf lo noblencan who had so romantic a career in Spain, sold it to the Grosveuurs, who rebuilt it in 1735. Eaton Hall, as it sow exists, is practically the third of its name. The first was built iu the reign of William 111., the next in 1803. In 1845 this one was greatly altered, and in 1869 it was practically rebuilt. The work took some five year , ami the result is an edifice in tbe Domestic Gothic Style, one of the most palatial in England. The chapel where tbe marriage takes pJ n has a tower higher than any other in the neighbourhood. One of the most oharming apartments in connection with tho hall is tb2 tea-house, a summer retreat which is orna mented with paintings on marble by Mr. H. S. Marks. The artist has depicten the Seven Ages of Man, tho signy of the Zodiac, and various designs taken from an'eial life. The pillars are of oak grown on the estate, and the floor of parquetrie-verily ''a lordly pleasure-house. ' These things may well be found at the Duke's dwelling for lie is no .doubt the riuhest man in England. He owns 20,00j acres of agricultural land besides his splendid Btlgravian estate. . A Jrwtefi Envoy M. My re do Viler , who has jaet arrived at SFamatarr , after tlso refusal of the ItaUgaey Government to accede to his de DMtnds at Antan anarivo, it familiar with the state of ,-ffeirs iu Aladogas-car. He wss French Resident there seven years ago, sd had many diple-itic struggle -with that little old man of 67, the Prime Minieter, who be found a very subtle diplomatist. M. de Vilers has not much snavity, but he has a good deal o f determination, end be and the Premier were pretty well matched. On one occasion tbe If. BE VILERS. Resident hauled down the French flag at the capita , in order to try to frighten the Malagasy into agreeing te his policy Ha wai, last year, the French ager.t who extorted such stringent terms from the King of Siam, and it was his scenes there that- decided the French Government to send him out a special envoy to Madagascar, in order to bully or cajole the Preoaicr into submission. Asthma Can Be Cured. A Startling Statement. Asthma has long been classed amongst tho incurable diseases. It has buffled the greatest skill of the medical profession. On the other I aad it is remarkable that doctors should for so long a time have clung to a wholly in efficient method of treating it, Asthma is a spasmodic affection of the bronchia! tubes of tho lungs, and the usual course of treatment calls ortheouiployment of various nauseating drags which are taken in the stomach. Medicine so takeii may in course of time reach the lungs nno have a slight, effect, just as. everything taken in the stomach finally icts in some dtgree upon every part of the system, but ihe number of failures to cure Asthma in this nav demonstrates too clearly that such treatment is a mistaken one. The only true treatment of Asthma is by inhalation, lly this means the remedy at oucj reaches the iohI seat of trouble. Within a comparatively recent period. Dr. U. 8chiffmami, who has made the treatment of Asthma, and kindred complaints die study of a lifetime, ha pre pared a remedy known as Ncbiffman's Asthma Cure. With this remedy there is no waiting for results. Being inhaled it acts directly upon the mucous membrane of ihe air passages,relieving the spasm and Centre in. s instantaneously, facilitating irec expectora tion, and insuring comfortably rest to those otherwise umu.de to sleep except in a chair, Briefly, u eff. cts cities where medicine have iailed. The great confidence of the pro prietor in his remedy will be r.aiily appre ciate 1 when he requests as he now uoes the publisher ot this paper to n a to public announcement of the lollowing . fi'er. He will refund the money to ny person who, having purchased a psekago of his chemist, finds on giving it a fair trial that it ooes not no ns claimed for i . Most chemists have i . i sale in two i-i .es, retailing at 2 6d and 4' 6 I per package, or should any ohaniist not mini it or decline to order it for a sufferer, a pannage will be sent, post fiee, on receipt of me amount by Dr. It. schiffmann U 8. , 34, H.J., Gray's Inn Il iad, London, W.Cl. A most convincing list of testimonials uuu pamphlets will be sent free to any uddu-ss. Mr. Trevor Battye. Mr. Trevot Battye, who has just turned up none the worse for his position on the Arctic Kolguev Island, is the son of the Rev. W. W. Battye, the teotor of Hever, near Edehbridge, in Kent At Oxford he was noted for re establishing, after an interval of 150 years, a hawking club. When he left college he did a lot of work for tbe Field on fishing, hunting,and natural history, and in 1891 he became editor of the Pictorial H'orltl. Last, year be formed a desire to explore Kolguev Island, MB. tbevor battyk. chiefly because no one had done so already. Ho and a friend engaged a steam y-cht, the Saxon, manned by a crew of Scotch whalers, which landed him on the island with six weeks' provisions. The ice closed up, and the Saxon was unable to get back at the appointed time to pick him up. For a few weeks there was considerable anxiety among hisfiiends, but he was brought to Europe by some Samoyedes. A Plucky Girl. An inquest was hold at Dover on Wednes day evening on the body of ayoung woman named talley, wife of a Folkestone trades man. who cut her throat, severing arteries and dividing the larynx. A verdict of suicide during temporary insanity was returned The Coroner commended tbe younger sister of th deceased, aged 16, for her courage in entering the room by a tedder when three men refused to do so. A Blind Pianist. A Statesman's Wife. Princess Bismarck, who died last week at Vaizin, was the daughter of a Pomeranian grandee, who mar-It is rot long ago since Viscount Hintou, tbe eldest son of Karl Poalett. aroused some iateresi by starting as an organ grinder. Another of these aristocratic musicians is depicted in our artist's sketch, Mr. Edgar Mn -crave, a blind gentleman, who was at fiist rumoured to be the son of a baronet. He has been round tbe West-end lately, seated in a . Jk V W w Tho Light Railways Conference. The Conference on light railways, which was convened by the Board of Trade, opened on Thursday at WliiiebaU. By the time the proceedings commenced, very few oi those w io had been invited and whose i Rules have been published had not arrived. Air. Brice, President of the Board of Trade, occupied lhe chair, and amongst those also present were Bhaw-Loievie, Sir J. Mibbert, Sir M. Hicks-Beach, Mr. Aluudella, and Air. Chaplin. ried t the age of 24 in 1847. Her husband was then a wild young fellow, and, before ye- rs and responsibi i y had sol bled him, their lile was rot altogether puacctul But lire Princess, who is very appro priately called the • GermanMis Glad stone, has devoted herself to smoothing her husband's path in lile, by Matching caietully over his health and comfort, and making hi home a haven of pbincms bismauck. re t, to which its might turn for peace amid tho stormr of politics. Hen was a home life, and though bc had great abilities she never took nuy part in public affairs. Of late years she had been a great sufferer, and once or twije recently she seemed at deaths door, But agtin nnd again, as soon as the great, st Sufferings were over, she was about again, ordering her household, preti ling at table, bright, uncomplaining, ever watchful. fr British and Irish Taxes. The Financial Relations Commission con tinued its sittings in Dublin on Thursday. Sir Joseph McKenna stated that the imposition oi the income tax on Ireland as a jiiidpi oqi o for the remission of certiin annuities had resulted in Ireland paying ten mill! mg more than the oipitvlised value of these annuities, The Government of Gic.t Britain had failed to carry out the Act of Union as it equalised the taxes of Iro.ai.d afid England without ascertaining whether the taxable capacity of the two countries was equal. MB. EDGAR MUBGRAVE. !fonr-wheel van, playing cottage piano. A companion, in a slouch hat, green goggles, aud a cape ' ulster, colleots the copper of the charitable. The piano bs.,r placard stating 'that lie has, through no rnisoenduct of hie 'oWn, lost aitates worth £2,000 a year. It appear that hn is the son of the Riv. George M. Mnsgrave, Loid of the Manor of Shilling-ton, Beds., grandson of Mr. George Mnsgrave, who was High Sheriff ot B ulfernslure In 1836, and nephew of Mr. Henry Maigrave, J.P., late of toe Langham Hotel. In 1862 Edgar married, succeeding his father at the Manor House. He wss a resident up to 1870. His mo.her was the daughter of Air. Alfred Oakrs, who died at Bombay. The widow came to the Manor House to live with the Musgrave family, and died there, and was interred in dhillington Churchyard. IVh in Edgar Alus-,jrhve left Shlllington they bad three chil dren, Horace, Philip, and Ethel. At this time they had a man living with them, who was known as the Spiritual Doctor, ard whose purpose was to recover Edgar Mus-grave's sight Ills wile has now lakun up her abide at the Alanor House. There is much •ympathy at Shitlington for Edgar Mnsgrave, who was for a time organist at Sliillingtou Church. He is about 63 years of age. At Cambridge Police Court on Thursday .John AleXtnder Rigby, of Cains College was fined £14 for ass wiring the police and damaging Eighty pounds of dynamite placed on a i be police c ill.-i i vo undergraduates were j to thaw at Hull, Canada, exploded fined fer attempting to rescau him. j killing three men and two schoolboys. Mr. Henry A. Jones' play The Afas-queraders was produced at the Empire I hvatre, New York, on Monday night with great success. There were no less than nine ails for the principals after the card scene. Return of tha Prince ot Wales. His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales and hit Royal Highness tho Duke of York arrived at Charing Cross on their return from St. Petersburg on Thursday. The Royal party crossed from Dover in the well known steamer Calais-Douvres, but owing to a thick fog which prevailed in the Channel their steamer did not arrive at Dover until tweuty minutes after the scheduled time. The special Royal train whtoh Is always placed at the disposal of the Prince of Wales by Hie South Eastern Railway Company was in waiting. His Royal Highness was met at the pier by Sir Myles Fenton, the general manager of tho South' Eastern Railway Company, who travelled up in the same train. The Royal train left Do' er P.er at 10.47 and despite the thick fog which prevailed along the whols route it arrived at Charing Cross at 12.31, the journey only taking one minute iocgei than the officials had arranged. A consider able crowd had collected to await the arrival of tbe train, but only a privileged number were permitted on tbe platform. Among the first to arrive at tne station to meet tbe Prince was the Duke of Cambridge, wbo was followed a few minutes afterwards byH.RH. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, wbo drove from Clarence House, not having been previously informed of the delay. Among the others on the platform were General Sir Charles Fraser, V.C., General Keith Fraser, Sir Michael Biddulph, General Dunn, Lieutenant of the Tower of London, General Sir Henry Havelock, Sir Francis de IVinton, and Sir Charles Just, tbe comptroller and equerry to the Duke of i'ork. As tbe Prince of Walee stepped from the saloon he wa3 warmly greeted by the Duke of Coburg f.nJ the Duke of Cambridge. Hie Royal Highues3 appeared to be in the best of health and not tha least fatigued by his trying journey. He wae wearing a short black overcoat with black fslt hat. The Duke of York, wearing a light grey ultter, also appeared extremely well. After talking a few moments with his brother the .Heir Apparent warmly shook hands with Sir M. Biddulph and General Fraser and the other military gentlemen who were on the platform. He then, accompanied by the Duke of York, entered the Royal carriage which was in waiting and drove to Marlborough Hou.c. As soon as his carriage entered the station yard the crowd outsice, which was mostly com posed of well-dressed gentlemen, raised a cheer, which his Royal llighncgj continually acknowledged by bowing from the carriage window. To thb Police.-Notice ha been esnt te the police in the longer market towns, respiting a fraud carried on by street vendors. As is well-known, tbe late extra-ordinary cures in this district have attracted idespread attention to the mdicine by which they were effected, Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People, and it appears that street and market-place vendors have been detected fraudulently selling large quantities of loose pills Under Dr. Williams' name. It cannot be too widely known t.iatDr. Willifiros' Pills aie sold only in wioden boxes, enclosed in a pink wrapper, boaring the full name I r. Williams' Pills for Pale People, and also anything else offered, either by shopkeepers or others, as Dr. Williams' is i fraud h r the detection of which tho manu facturers will pay a cash roward. Should aay doubt exist, the best plan is to sond tho price iu stamps, without anything extra lor pestage 2s 94-or 13s 94 for six boxes to Dr. Williams' Medicine Company, 46 llolborn-viaduct, Loudon J'he genuine pills are never sold loose, or by the dozau or huudred under any oironmslances, and no tradesman can pu t up the same formula as soma pretend Dr' Williams' Pink Pills are a proved cure for rheumatism, neuralgia, ataxy, paralysis, locomotor ataxy, St. Vitus' dance, nervous headache, scrofula, chronic erysipelas, Uo, They are not purgative, but rasters pais and sallow complsxt tins to health, and are a specific for female troubles, while in men thoy effect a radical cure in all cone from worry, overwork, or excess of any nature. Mr. James Weatherby was buried on Thursday in ths churchyard of the parish church at Walton-ou-Xhames. There was a very large attendance of friends, and the blinds of every house in Walton were .drawn down. The chief mourneis were Messrs, John Weatherby brother , John Weatherby eon , Miss Weatherby, Mr. aud Mrs. K. Weatherby. Messrs. C. T. Weatherby, J. H. Weatherby E. M. Weatherby, J. T. Weatherby, and W Weather by IZmMZcm-m? sst €i LIPTON'S DELICIOUS TEAS KSf HOHI'I is thfi siirht list iii tlieir upp'ri'ciutiou bv the public. ' easing popularity © R1 M o m If yru wish to enjoy a Cup of Tea that Excels Ail Others kr rs as mm ai' 1 4sy ■• rem • rKJari IE L ?rr s r e as C I Mi r f.'MY aw no 1 t tM SCCTI6M OF ! DT.D'S F5IS, CHICAGO. S3 31 SSL SE2 d HS? THE MOST POPULAR OF THEncing-lane, LONDON, E.C, Wholesale Tea IP '' ' ~ ~ •- ® -Proprietor of ihe following celebrated Tea and Ctffre Estates in Ceylon '•• ! TEA ard COFFTE LAND in Ceylon. CryUn Tea and Coffeebhippin ! xj. rt Stores Hare Street, Strand, Calcutta. Indian Offices Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. Tea and Oottee Sale Rooms Mincing-lane, LOND N, E.C. Wholesale Tea Blending and Duty Paid Stores Tdath-street 1 n-street, LONDON, F.C. Bonded and Export Stores, Peerless-street, LONDON, L.C. Coffee Roasting, Rleiuimg Stores, and Essence Manufactory, Old-street, LONDON, E.C. Wholesale and Exnort PrnvU • houses Nelson Place, LONDON, E.C. Fruit Preserve Factory Spa-road, Bermondsey, LONDON, S.E. GENERAL OFFICES BAT If-STREET, CITY-ROAD, LONdON, E.C. LOCAL BRANCOLS LARGEST BfiANCHES EVER 7 H EIIL EXETER 173, FORE-STREET. PLYMOUTH 24, BEOFORD-STREET. WORLD. SALE m ,A J ENTS IV H .ROUGH Ojjt, X ... 'T HE WORLD. . 3 0 . Oi ' Oi
I CURIOSITIES. •Cm. y it is still generally ma in tbe snow as a Christ-ginallv. in all probability i divinity, and it dates r the Thunderer. F Orchahds, still bless the orchards ding to the old verse at tbev may bare nd many a pare it they will bring wassailing. y Circs. ractised in Sweden, of rery house at Christmas or the winter provision utHeight 72 Two Only, I rge Sizs Length of Rocker , tmhes Height of Her so, 33 inehe -27 6d each. These low prioes fsr cash to effect an immediate Baler T. J ONES, 6 TO 16, NBWPOBT ROAD. MIDDLESBROUGH. n 2U sJwps and guns, and prophesying national ruin aa the penalty of neglect of those prophecies, all assume that Her Majesty's Government are deliberately determined not to maintain the navy at its prop9r strength, and yet are all quite well aware that thero is no evidence whatever in sun-port of such an assumption. In the present state of the world, and so long as inter national disputes ave left to haphazard set tlement by the nations concerned in them, instead of the maintenance of peace 1 icing regarded as a primary duty laid upon all collectively, British Governments must preserve in efficient shape aud strength the means of successful defence and it is perfectly notorious that neither Mr Glad stone's Government nor any other will neglect that duty. But it suits the grumblers, and it agrees with the party purposes of the Unionists to attack, under the guise of an exalted aud enthusiastic patriotism, tho Government of the day, for an alleged policy which they are not pursuing and have no intention of pursuing. That a great English party are capable of acting on flagrantly false pretences is another little nut to crack at Christmas time. Mr Rider Haggard, we observe, attributes the defects of the Government to a lack of imagination. They do not, through this defect, foresee the time when loud and ominous the roar of a ruined nation will roll to their ears, or when the empty bellied mob will rave its curses on the statesmen who betrayed them while, wait ing for the spoil, the peoples of the world watch the last struggles of its mightiest Empire as vultures watch a dying bull, till at last tho necessities of Nature force us to a dishonour worse than death. This is a doleful picture, aud especially so if we are to assume, with Mr Rider Haggard, that the nations of the earth are a sot of vultures greedily waiting for our spoil. Are wo, then, so utterly alone and friend less among the nations, and are they so utterly degraded as to be little better than banditti ? Happily there are signs to the contrary, for whatever may bo tho disposi tion of the governing classes the peoples are developing every year a more brotherly spirit, and every year war becomes more difficult to make without the consent of tho peoples concerned. -'TkTBAVMS TJWOD.-Ffral established 1825. - J la Patent Air-tight Tins. TATEAVES T3700D.- For Infants, Invalids, JK the Aged. and line Promotes tho healthy action ol the bowels. Bone-formingand flesh-producing. TATEAVK'8 1700n.-Well adapted for Children AM X 1 Aged People, and I Invalids. -Brit. Med. Jnl . Carefully prepared aud highly nutritious. -Lancet. child from lias thrived • FATAL STABBING CASE. A fatal stabbiug case occurred in Digbetb, Bir-raingluun on .Saturday night. A quarrel arose between some men drinking in the Pavilion Vaults, and they suddenly left tbe house. In a momentary scuffle a young follow named Met calfe fell to tbe ground, and died almost imme diately from a terrible stall in the throat inflicted by a mau not clearly identified, who got away. ALLEGED MURDER. A sad tragedy has occurred in Bolton, as the result of which an Irish Constabulary pensioner, named James M'Derby, is in custody on a charge of murdering his wife. Tbe parties, it appears, have, lived unhappily together, and only a few weeks ago the woman was sent to prison for neglecting her children. On Saturday they quarrelled, owing to her having mis-speut some money, and M 'Derby became so aggravated that he kicked her repeatedly. The unfortunate woman sustained such terrible injuries that she expired iu a few minutes. SHOCKING FATALITY AT BILLIXGHAM. The Stockton police received information on Saturday of a shocking burning fatality at Billingham. A Mrs Hildroy, aged S2, a widow, living by herself, was visited the previous evening by her granddaughter, who left the old lady apparently in her usual health. Upon going to visit her again .on Saturday morning, she dis covered her grandmother suffering from horrible burus about the head aud body, to which iujuries she succumbed in about ten minutes. It is sur mised the clothing of the unfortunate woman had got accidentally ignited. ACCIDENTALLY SHOT. f At Tenby on Saturday, a gentleman named J. B. Cooper, of Sutton Courtney, Abingdon, was handling a revolver in his apartments in South Cliff-street when one of the barrels exploded accidentally, it is believed, and the bullet entered his head and caused death. N RAVE'S XjjTOOD.-Hospital say ol a 1' deprived of its mother's milk from birth-The child lias thrived exceedingly. TKT FAVI.-S XjTOOn.-Best and Cheapest. Hi JU gold everywhere, ■WEAVE'S EffOOD.-Wholesale of the Manufac-A3 JC tnrors, J. R. Noave Co., Ford-ingbrfdge, Bnglaud. kl58 SORE THROATS CURED IN A FEW HOURS BY GARGLING WITH Condys Remedial Fluid. You aannnt nxoa better Gargle than Coudy's. -Sir IfoBZLL Mar'KEXEIU, M.D. Directions Free by Post from CONDYS FLUID WORKS, 62. TCRNMILL-STREET, E.C. iSd BURNED TO DEATH. Yesterday Hominy morning, about 3.30. a six-rooiued house in Ladywell-road, Lewisham, was dostrojod by fire. The occupier, named Ncwnham, his wife, and six children were sleep ing in the building, but all escaped except John Newnham, aged eight years, who bad got under the bed. Fireman Roach rescued the child, but it quickly succumbed. Roach was scorched. DRUIDISM AT CROFT. On Friday night, the members of the Queen Victoria Lodge held their annual dinner at the Comet Hotel. Bro. A. J. Day, N.Q.A., pre sided, aud Bro. W. II. Plews, V.G.A., occupied the vice-chair, the others present being Bros. J. Hutchinson, l'.D G.M, R. Wilson, II.C.S., J. fj. Wood, B.J., together with Mr Outwin, Mr A. Ness, Mr T. Ness, Mr Foster, Mr Cape, Mr Hill, and Mr W. Cooper.-After the usual toasts were duly honoured, Bro. Plews proposed Success to tbe Quten Victoria Lodge. -Bro. W. Grnndon secretary responded, and said tho lodge was in a pros perous condition.- Success to the Darliugton Equalised District, proposed by tho Chairman, was respouded to by Bros. J. Hutchinson, P.D.U.M., and R. Wilson, D.C.B.-Tbe rest of tbe evening was spent in harmony snl con viviality, the following brothers coofr'bntmg to th enjoyment of those present -F o . Carter, Walsh, Hutchinson. Day, Wilson, ri d others. Mr Honuc-yman aceom.umaJ. orthern Echo. TUESDAY, DECEMBER tC, IS'jS. THE NEWBOTTLE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY. The affairs of the Nmvbottle aud District Co operative Society are daily assuming a more encouraging tone, and the liquidator Mr H. R. Bailey anticipates having the present society out of liquidation and the new society launohed by the ensuing summer. The sales have not suffered to such a degree as was anticipated, the month's sales realising £3,788. The appeal to the various other co-operative societies is being steadily responded to. SCOTCH MINERS' WAGES. A telegram from Dalkeith states that as the result of a meeting between masters aud men at Newbattle it w.rs definitely arranged that tbe whole of the men would return to work, the masters to permit a five days' poliev to each of the miners who, as a body, have at the same time agreed to tofce their idle days in sections, and so keen the pits open eleven days per fortnight. The Lothian Coal Co., Limited, have at the 6ame time conceded the 20 per cent, advance which which had been conceded the other workmen after their nine weeks' strike. GARDENING NOTES. Endive. This is a most valuable and acceptable addition to salad plants in the wiuter. We value the Broad-leaved Bataviau variety more than any other salad plant we possess from November until March. We grow it largely aud exclusively. The Green Curled is pretty, but uot so useful as this excellent broad-leaved 6ort. The plants grow very large, and are very hardy. Like other endives, they require tying up a fortnight before being used, and a number ought to be tied up now for use during the latter part of this month and throughout December. Gather the loaves all together at the top, bind them round, aud tie them close with a piece of matting, aud the centres will soou become tender and cream-coloured. We always tie them when quite dry. and as the rain cannot peuetrate to the centre easily when the leaves are tied m the top we do not lose mauy plants from damp. They will bear a few degrees of frost, but in very severe wea 1 her, or just before this, the plants should be lifted, placed in cool frames, and covered over with lights. When frames were not. available wc have sometimes placed numbers of them close together on the inside border of a cool peach house, and they keep uncommonly well there. So long as they can be kept dry there is little danger of their decaying. Cabbages for Spring. When a cabbage is at its best there are few things in the way of culinary vegetables that excel it for delicacy of flavour, Rod when obtainable in first rato condition nothing is more acceptable during April sod May, before the ground gets dry. It too frequently happens that owing to summer droughts cabbages lose the delicate flavonr for which they are so highly esteemed, and other things becoming more plentiful, the cabbage is refused admittance to the i dining-room during the summer months. Those who are expected to furnish a supply early in the season, should lose no tioie in making a plantation FIRE AT SOLBERGE HALL. DAMAGES ESTIMATED AT £15,000. About two o'clock on Christmas morning a fire was discovered in a room at Solberge Hall, a distance of three miles from Northallertou. The hall is tenanted by Mr It. Clayton Swan, the master of the Sinuiugton Foxhound , but at the time of tho outbreak Mr and Mrs Swan wore on a visit to Mrs Swan's mother, Mrs Geo. W. Elliot, at Scruton Hall. The fire had originated in the library, and it spread rapidly. The North allerton and Thirsk fire brigades were summoned, but unfortunately tho supply of water was prac tically nit, and the efforts of the firemen were directed towards saving t he servants' quarters and tbe stabling and other outbuildings, but the hall was completely gutted, only the hare walls being left standing. The blazo was seen for miles away. The damage done amounts to several thousands of pounds, and includes the jewellery and hand some wedding presents which were presented to Mr and Mrs Swan on their marriage a little over a year ago. Fortunately there was no loss of life, aa the servants were rescued from tho burn ing building in their night clothes The fire seems to have originated iu the library, but nothing definite can be ascertained to account for tlie conflagration. The property is partly in sured. LATER PARTICULARS. The fire has done damage estimated at £15,000 Of this amount, Mr R. Oiayton Swan's loss is estimated at between £7,000 and £8,000, and the loss of Mr John Hutton, J.P., the chairman of North Riding Quarter Sessions, the owner of the hall, a like amount, which is only partially covered by insurance. The origin of the fire is said to be due to a pipe from a stove in the library having come in contact with the beam in tho floor beneath, and in consequence of its being overheated had iguited the beam. The fire was discovered by Mrs Bond, who acts as wet nurse to Mr Swan's infant daughter, who slept in the bedroom adjoining the library. The North allerton Fire Brigade rendered efficient service in saving the servants' quarters and in preventing the fire from spreading to the stables. They were, however, not able to utilise a new steam fire-engine which they have recently purchased in consequence of its not being complete. A plentiful supply of water was obtained close by. ANOTHER ACCOUNT. Yesterday morning Christmas Day Solberge Hall, near Northallerton, was destroyed by fire, the hall being completely gutted, aud all the valuable furniture consumed. The fire was first discovered by a nurse-maid named Mrs Bond, a little after two, when sh had oocasion to rise in order to fee-1 an infant. On looking out of the window she discovered that the adjacent part of tbe hall, namely the library was in flames. She immediately gavo the alarm to the other servants, and to Mr Aohril, secretary to Mr R. O. Swan. It was then found that the flames had got snch a hold of the library that it was hopeless with the moans at command to save tho building. Word was sent at once to Northallerton and to Thirsk for the fire brigade, and also by a rider to Mr and Mrs R. C. Swan, who have gone to Scruton Ball, the residence of Mr George W. Elliot, M.P., Mrs Swan 1 father, on Saturday to stay over the Christmas. The Northallerton Fire Brigade arrived on the scene about four o'clock, and meanwhile the servants in a great state of alarm were devoting all their energies to saving their own goods, which they threw promiscuously from the windows. The firerayidly spread in an easterly direction, as the wind was blowing from the west. From the library, where there wa a most valuable collection of books, the flames communi cated to the drawiug-room, which had lately been handsomely furnished by Mr Swan, thence the. fire penetrated to tbo boudoir above, which had also been splendidly furnished by Mr Swan since his marriage. The fire was then seen in the bedroom in the cast corner, and afterwards in the other bedroooms in the front of the hall, the last rooms to catch fire being those iu the basement iu the front of the hall, namely the dining-room, morning-room, which had also recently been newly furnished at great expense by Mr Swan. The Northallerton fire brigade was under the superintendence, of Dr. Tweedy, there being present Mr Geo. J. Robinson, Dr. Barfvum, Jas. Ward, and Jas. Guthrie, as members of the brigade, who, with other assistance, devoted their energies to pm venting the spread of the Ore to the servants' dwelling, abutting on the north of tho hall. For this purpose Dr. Tweedy and others pulled off the tiles from the servants' house to enable them to direct a stream sf water in the fire below, and thus confine the flames. The Thirsk Fire Brigade, under the conduct of Mr George Best! arrived at about S.25 a m., and rendered good assistance. The CHRIS TMASTIDE. on well-manured soil. If a ehoiceean he made, a somewhat dry spot will be better than a dampene. Plant from 20 in. to 24 in. apart according to the i y 1M , was g 0 uader by, and exhausted, about six richness of the soil and variety used. Enfield I o'clock, uvei WAR AND CHRISTMAS. While the country is overflowing with the genial sentiment peculiar to the Christmas season, friend exchanging with friend kindly greetings, and the organs of the press vising with each other in their expression of the doctrine of brotherhood and mutual kindliness, the Times is .ateadily pursuing its crusade on behalf of , n increase in destructive armaments ! With unconscious humour the Thunderer en Christmas Day publishes half a page of appeals to the fears of the nation in order to frighton it into a clamant demand for an indefinite addition to tho force of the navy. How many of us realise tho grim significance of such a conjunction, or feel k onr inmost souls as wc ought the horror of the war passions which still ravage humanity nearly two thousand years after tfco birth of the Prince of Peace ? Moral progress is indeed slow and the preachings of the Church universal fall on careless •ars. Christian folk seem indeed to have interchangeable consciences in these matters. Our eminently respectable Houses of Parliament the other day trans mitted to the French Chamber their friendly sympathy with the members on the occasion of a desperate attempt to commit wholesale slaughter among them by means of an explosive bomb. Very agreeable and creditable is this graceful incident in inter national affaire but somehow its geniality and kindliness are a little marred by the fact that a great party in both our Houses of Parliament are clamouring for an enor mous provision of murderous instruments for the express purpose of slaughtering as many Frenchmen as possible. With how tittle wisdom indeed is the world governed l and small as is the public stock of wisdom it is Gargantuan compared with the thin and almost invisible Btreak of Christian principle which is tolerated in the region of international affairs. Among many things urgently necessary to be realised at each recurring Christmas is the fact that the rulers of the world in thoir public capacities are not Christians, but are animated by feelings and principles which are tho reverse of those exemplified nd laid down by tho Prince of Peace. Mon who would not willingly defraud their neighbours of a pin or injure a worm in private life will defend and even applaud wilful rapine aud bloodshed if it is only on largo scale, and though there are signs of the gradual spread of purer and higher ideas of the duty of nation to nation, tliai spread is slow indeed. Tho agitation for the increase of the navj i, not the more respectable because it is not honestly conducted. Tho gentlemen who arc pouring forth their prayers for more ACCIDENT TO A FOUR-IN-HAND. On Saturday afternoon Lady Curzon and her son had a narrow escape from injury by the over turning of a four-in-hand on Chandlers' Hill, near Viscount Onrrou's residence near Uxbridge. Tho reins got twisted and the coachman was called to disentangle them, but somehow the coach overturned, throwing Lady Ourzon and her son to the ground. The coach fell on the coach man, breaking six ot his ribs, one of which it is feared has pierced the lung6. He lies in a pre carious etatc. Lady Curxon and hev eon escaped with only a shaking. DEATH OF MR HENRY PETTITT. Sir Henry Pettitt, the dramatist, died on Son-day from the effects of typhoid fever, contracted about a month ago. Most of his plays, which were principally melodramas, were written in collaboration with ether authors. Among the best kuown of his works are Queen's Evidence, Black Flag, The World iu collaboration with Mr Merritt and Sir Augustus Harris, Taken from Lifo, Pluck Pettitt and Aarris . In the Ranks Pettitt and Sims , Human Nature Pettitt and Harris , Harbour Lights Pettitt and Sims . The Bells of Haslemore Pettitt and Grundy , Hands Across the Sea, Faust up to Dale Pettitt aud Sims , ThoSilver Falls, London Day by Day Pettitt and Sims , A Million of Money Pettitt and Harris , A Woman's Revenge, now being played at tho Adelphi, and A Life of Pleasure Pettitt and Harris , which was produced at Drury Lane and has been transferred to the Princess's. Mr Pettitt commenced writing at the age of 22, when he was master in the classical department of the North London Collegiate School, Camden Town. Dnriug the past seventeen years he turned out more than a hundred plays, and was probably the most successful playwright of his day. AN IRONCLAD IN A HURRICANE. A GALLANT RESCUE. Lloyd's agent at Queenstown telegraphed on Saturday afternoon H.M.S. Resolution, Capt, Hall, from Portsmouth to Gibraltar to join the Mediterranian fleet, has arrived at Queenstow and reports loft Portsmouth last Monday, and on last Tuesday, when in the Bay of Biscay, en countered terrible gales, shipped heavy seas, and Biisteuaed damage about the deck. Several of the crew were injured, and a man was lost over board. The Resolution loft Portsmouth in com pany with the gunbnut Gleaner, bat lost sight of her in the gale, and did not afterwards sec her. A Portsmouth correspondent telegraphs that numbers of letters have lawn received there from the officers aud arew ef H.M.S. Resolution giving an account of tbo psle which that ship encoun tered in the Bay of Biscay. Tbo ohief defect of ships of this class is said to be that in a heavy sea they roll to a fearful extent owing to the absence of bilge blocks but if these ware pro vided m sufficient width there would be no Government dock broad enough to accommodate these vessels, consequently when the Resolution encountered the gale she relied over to such an extent that the lifeboat, whioh is hoisted 3ffft. above the load line, went under water and was carried away. Everything move-ahle on deck was washed away, while the waist of the ship suffered damage by the immense weight of the teas that fell there bet what finally induced Capt. Hall to return was a report from the engineers that the water which lodged between the barbette had poured in tons into the stoke hole, and was putting ont the fires, and as few more seaswonld have completely extinguished tho fires there was no alternative but to put back. A Queenstown correspondent telegraphing an Saturdav night says • It is difficult to obtain the names of the drowned seamen, as the crew are not allowed ashore An officer just lauded believed the name was Hmith. He states that two mon went overboard at the same time, and the captein of the gunboat Gleaner jumped overboard to the assstanoe o th #raen, and with trie aid of the lifeboat from the Resolution, saved one. The other disappeared. H.M.S. Resolution will leave for Plymouth on Sunday, there being fficieut coal at Queeest-own. Market and other Similar large growing kinds will require 24 in, Ellam's Dwarf from 18 in. to 20 in. This latter has for some years beeu our favourite variety, as it turns in quiehly, and makes few outside leaves. Let the plants down to the lower leaves in the soil, and if ary, water well. Take eave to set the plants firm In the soil. There is a knack of firming them expeditiously by inserting tho dibble a little aslant towards the plant, and ? iving it a slight tarist towards it this wHl asten the plant firm ra the soil at one turn. Keep the ground clear from weeds by frequent hoeing, preferably with trie Dutch hoe, because tho woods are not trodden down its use.-Garden TTork. Fi.oweu Bros. If the various bulbs inteuded'to beautify these in tho spring ace not planted, no time should be lost in getting them in. Unless covered by 2 or 3 inches of soil frost may injure them, and as a further preventive the beds may well be surfaced over with not less than an inch of cocoa-nut fibre or leaf soil. Spring-flowering plants not being available, the beds m y be made to present quite a bright appearance by a judicious arrangement of short neat pieces of variegated hollies, box, aueuba, mahonlas, and tree ivy. All our carpet beds have a groundwork of hardy plants, snch as sedutn gtauenm, antenuaria tomentosa, veronica repens, variegated aaabis, and hemi-aria, and these as well as the golden pyrethrum, are not disturbed, bnt the figures are filled in with juga reptaps rubra, small beetroot, sem-porvivum californium, neat sprays of coloured maliouia, box, hollies, aueuba, and ivv, with small cupressus, retinoxporas, and iris rretidis-sima variegate, the three latter being used for dotting or single prominent plants. In this manner a vary pretty effect is easily attained, and which appears to give more pleasure than even the summer oocupants did. Other con spicuous beds are also decorated in a somewhat similar manner, this being preferable to naked soil, and obviating the employment of plants that would look dull all the winter, and would, as a rule, flower when there was no one here to see hem. werything in the hall beiug destroyed, nothing but the bare walls left. Most of the furniture belonged to Mv Jno. Hutton, J.P., the landlord, and trie late occupier of the house, whioh he lot f urn wheel to Mr Swan. All the valuable presents giveu to Mr and Mrs Swan on tho oocasiou of their wedding were destroyed, together with valuable pictures and furniture, by which Bit Swan has lost about £8,090 value of goods, covered by iueurance. The rest of the furniture and house, belonging to Mr Huttou, will make the tetal damage to something lib £15,000 to £20,000. Among the pictures was one by Haywood Hardy, the celebrated animal paintsr, wbieh cost over £1,000.-inspector Uook, Thirsk, Mr Juo. Hutton, Mr R. C, Ewan, Mr and Mrs Ceok, and Misses Elliot, were early on the scene. The mamker-so? tho Northallerton Fire Brigade would have attempted to have saved 6ome of the furn'iture from tbe front rooms, bnt were pre vented, a it wes deemed dangerous- Tbe damage is partly covered by insurance. SIR RATLTON DIXON COMPANY. Sir Raylton Dixon Company inform us that they have not received four additional orders, and that unfortunately they can employ very few men for some time to onme. a g s ii in, The condition of Lord Hamilton of Dalsell is ur.ehanged. The Speaker of the House of Oemmous is progressing favourably, but his unable to leave London. Throe men were seriously injured in explosion in a saloon hot at Denmark Camberwell, on Satmday evening. The annual distribution of beef to workirO i and aged cottagers on tbo Prince of Wales's Sandringham Estate took place on Saturday, Trie remains of trie late Mr .Stanhope will be removed rom Sevenoahe to-dar, for interment at Revesby Abbey, Linos., on tbe following day. Mr Registrar Brougham has refused to reseind trie receiving order rfioently made against Captain O'Shea, described as of Yictoria-street, West minster, aud elsewhere. At Leicester, on Saturday, a dyer's labourer named Tolley, living in Blueboar-lane, Leicester, shot his wife in the head with a revolver and then cut his throat. Both are dead. 'The couple had lived unhappily together. A Dublin man named Ryan, a dyer, has been arrested in Duhliu on a charge of wife murder. The parties had been drinking, and quarrelled. Some hours later th room was entered, and the woman was found dead and the walls, floor, and furniture bloodstained. Florence Elborougri or Bailey, the barmaid at the Plough and Harrow, Hampton-street, Birm ingham, who was shot by her lover on trie 12tU inst,, died in the hospital on Christmas Day. Her assailant, who endeavoured to commit suicide, is still in a weak condition. Mr Hugh Nettlefold, of trie firm of Nettlefolds Limited , and of IfalRMd, Edgbastou, Bir mingham, died on Saturday morntng. He was a n pLew of Mr Joseph Nettlefold, the senior partner of the firm with whioh Mr Joseph Chamberlain was so long connected. The Lord-Lieutenant has reprieved the Rev. George Griffiths, on the ground of insanity. The rev. gentleman was sentenced to death at the recent Cork A .sines for the murder of his mother at Kitfiyun, on June 26. The sentence has been commuted to one of penal servitude for life At Ulster Asokes ou Thursday John and Thomas Donnelly, farmers, Collahana, oounty Armagh, who wore found guilty on Wednesday evening of coaspiring to murder their csuave. Jas. Thompson, in April last iu order to get bis share of a fortune of £5.000 left by a relative, were sentenced to seven years' ponal servitude Tbs Editor sf be M d cal Annual far ItfiO pataU out thvs pouwb it largely awed to add to trit solu bility ef many the StMM at preaaat sold, but that, in aaarirad eaatrevt. KW !M OABSVav absolute!? pure Oooov of trio higboak q tfcot the tvs Cumin™ on an packvt Oitonolate is a guarantee ot putt?. DESTRUCTIVE FIRE AT WEST HA4CTLSFOOL. A fire which resulted in considerable destruction of property broke oat on the premises of Sir -W. Johnson, tobaeoanist and hairdresser, of Steck-ton-strect, West Hartlepool, about half-past six on Saturday maraiog. The fire was discovered by a youth uameffr Juiratt, who gave trie alarm at the fire station. Police-inspector Craicksbank, Sergt. CaHisop, ar.d P.O. Long staff soon arrived on trie scene, but the fire wasburniug so furiously that they were unable to render any assistance. Capt. Allen, who pro eilcd to the spot wish a detachment ohnen, quickly aucoeeded in putting out trie fire. The stock, whioh included a large quantity of tobacco, cigars, and Uriristma goods, was entirely consumed, and the promises serioiwfy damaged. Mr Johnson, who estimates the value •f the stock at £608. of which £400 is havered by insurance, did not reside on he premises. MIDDLESBROUGH. At Middlesbrough the weather on Christmas Day was beautifully fine, in the morning-quite unseasonable, as some would say but those who had to go with an empty stomach and shoeless feet would appreciate tho spleudid springlike morning better than the rigours of frost and snow. In the afternoon, however, the weather changed, and rain fell heavily about three o'clock. Several bands wero early astir, playing appro priate melodies, aad at all the places of worship tho special Christmas services wero well attended. Tho usual Christmas dinner was given to the inmates of trie Workbouse, 874, trie largest number on record, partaking of an excellent repast of roast beef aud plum pudding, iu serving which the Master and Matron were assisted by Councillor W. J. Bruce, County Council or .Sey mour, Councillor Keay, Mr Allison, Mr D D. Wilson, Dr. Longbiitham, Mr iVm. Ilinton, and others. Beer acid lemonade were supplied by Mrs E. J. Weighell, of the Cleveland Bay Hotol , tea and tobacco were supplied to the adult inmates by tbs Guardians, who also provided fruit and sweets for tho youngsters. Messrs Garnet Fish also presented a supply of herb beer. Iu the evening bt. Barnabas Choir gave a musical entertainment to the inmates.-As custo mary, the Vicar of St. Hilda's Rev. J. K. Bosley distributed a quantity of provisions amongst the aged poor of the parish. The annual distribution of groceries and beef among the poor of Grangetown was made on Friday to the amount of over £50, through tho liberality of Mr James Eadie, of Burton-on-Trent, and Mrs David Evans, of Cleveland House, Grangetown. STOCKTON AND THORNABY. The weather was exceptionally mild and springlike. Late on Christmas Eve a strong south westerly wind prevailed, aud heavy showers of rain fell. The streets were, however, somowhat thronged by youths, and bands of carol singers were to be heard for several hours through out the two boroughs. Services were held on Christmas Day in a number of tho churches, and a general holiday was observed At the Workhouse the usual Christmas festivities took place, and the Workhouse presented a cheerful appearance, having been extensively decorated. At breakfast-time all tho women and children reoeived Christmas card9. the gifts of Messrs A. G. Taylor, photographers, Stockton, and Mrs Denton, of Norton Shortly after noon the whole of the inmates sat down to the usual Christmas dinner, consisting of roast beef, plum padding, c., with beer for tho adults, and lemonade, generously given by Messrs H. H. Wren A Co., for the younger portion of the inmates. The dining hall was tastefully deco rated with mottoes, festoons, he., thanks to the skilful hands of tho boys' warden Mr Hardy , Mr GUlstou, tho inmates, and others, under tho supervision of the Matron Mrs Hatcher . A number of outside friends assisted in the carving and generally looking after tbo wants of the inmates, the following being present -The Mayorand Mayoress Councillor and Mrs Langley , Mr Henry Smith, J.P. vice-chairman of tho Board of Guardians Councillor W. M. Watsen, J.P., and Master and Miss Watson, Mr ft. W. Robinson and the Misses Robinson, Mr Whittle Guardian , Kev H. Fisher, Mr George Power, Mr Joseph 1'ovaer, Mr W. T. Pescod, Mr and Sirs J. Dunthornc, Mr C. Hatcher, Mrs Gregory, Mr T. H. Marshal , Mr Stsrre, and the officers. After the substan tial dinner had been done ample justice to, oranges were distributed to tbe juveniles given by Messrs A. 3. Holmes Ce. aud tobacco and snatf among trio adults.-The proceedings ter minate..! by a hearty veto of thanks being accorded to the Mayor and Mayoress for their presence, on the motion of CoanodlorW. M. Watson, seconded by Sfr Ilenry Smith, and in reply the Mayor addressed a few kindly words to the inmates.-A vote of thanks was accorded to the ladies and gentlemen who had kindly assisted.-At the Victoria Grounds there was a fair assemblage of speotators to witness a football match between tho Stockton and Darlington football teams. It had, however, to be dis continued by reason of the raw that fell during the aftr-rneon, no score having been made ou either able. Tho inmates of the almshouses wore Uiudly remembered by Mrs Wright, Mr Jordison, and CounoiHot and Mrs Harrison, who seat generous gifts of various kinds. DARLINGTON. Christmas in Darlington w#s commemorated in mueh the same manner as in previous years, thowgh tho heavy rains and high winds of Sun day and Monday were far from what is usually understood by trie term Christmas weather. Uotij a late hear on Saturday night the main streets of tho town were unusually thronged, and the purvey uro cf Christmas fare, Christmas cards, and presents drove a thriving trade. Sunday was not marked by anything out of the usual course until late ai uigbt, when numerous parties of carol singers vridted the dwellings of many of -the principal residents. The Christmas Day morning services tt trie churches and chapels were wall attended and several special services and sacred cwncerts took place in the afternoon aad evening. At St. James's Church on Christmas Day there were 97 cernmnnicaaW at tbe early ami later celebrations. A mission service, illustrated by lantern views, was held in the peering m the parish roam, the st ject being The Story of the Nativity. ©n tbv Sunday evenings during Advent similar miepami sendees, after the service in the churpb, waTo heM, and were largely attended. Thehubject offfle addresses was The Story of Creation, Redemption, and Sanctifica-tiou, as set forth in the Apostles' Creed. Each address was illustrated by views from the paint ings of the groat masters. 'Hie inmates ef tho Darlington Workhouse, to the number ef 230, had their Christmas dinner ef roast beef and plum pudding, provided by the Guardians. The dining hall had been prettily decorated under the superintendence of tho Master and Matron Mr and Mrs Hurworth Amongst those present, and wfcw assisted in serving the dinner, were His Worship the Mayor Councillor G. W. Hprtktt , Miss Sari left, Aid. J, - llTlkcs, Mr a l Mrs cakes and oranges, and at half-past twelve the usual Christmas dinner of roast beef and pluni pudding, with beer, took place, 'the walls were tastefully decorated Uy the Master and Matron It may be state ! that the whole of the good things were provided by Mr .aud Mrs Bousou, who were accompanied by Mr Jones Guardian . BISUGP AUCKLAND. Christmas Eve was wet, changing to fine with bright moon. Christmas Day wai beautiful, with bracing breeze and bright sky, followed later by raia and thru fine weather. Services were held at the churches and at the Wesleyan Chapel, and season decoratious were observable. Salvation and Volunteer bauds and waits were about as usual, and She holiday generally was decorous and uneventful. The annual feast to the xwr children to. k place at the Temperance Hall, though unfortunately, to the general regret, Mr and Mrs H Foster of Hill Crest, wero absent through mdiype.it'cm. For many years Mr Foster has virtually born tbe founder cf i he 1 ra.-1. thiii is. be hi. raised the subscriptions and a au nn.l sue toss 1 1 d r.v 'ou of the whole. Between five and si sundred guests assembled in relays, giving i', ■ customary cheers for ail friends, receiving from Mrs Foster a pretty card each, anti being handed, further, an orange. Amougst tbe helpers were Councillor Lingford, Mr and Mrs !5. Lingford. Mrs 1 T. Proud, Mr aud Mrs F. V. Foster, Miss Burton Winchester , Misses Cleminsoa 2 Gibson, Wardle, Macnamarra, Alderson, Turnbull, We-.riconth, Savage. Strand Mrs G. Dyson, Mrs have, Messrs W. II. Foster, Sydney Poster, Jonathan Jackson, M, Brairh-wsito, M'Clymont, T. V. Smith, Ralph Hull, Jas. Robinsou, H. and W. Simpson, P Dyson, and Henderson. Messrs Cuningham who pur veyed tbe luscious beef , W. Kilbum, Joshua Moseley. Cooking, baking, he., was adroitly done by Mrs Dyson, Mr Cuniagham, and Mr J. Henderson.-At Use Workhouse the inmates bad a Royal dinner, a lar, towering Christmas tree, laden with toys, occupying the centre of the dining-hall. Councillor Peverell was a visitor, and gavo useful assistance at the table. The house is beautifully decorated, the greenery coming from the Wmdiesteoe and Whitworth Estates.-The Olive Branch Division of the Sons of Temper ance held their annual festival at the Temperance Hall, and there was an overflowing tea. waited upon, in relays, and very cheerfully, by Mrs and .Misses Gibson 21. Miss Gibsou South-road , Mrs aud Miss Gedney. Mr# aud Miss Selby. Stosdame# Souther,on, Rowe, and Hodg son, and Clough, and Miss Davison. At a crowded entertainment afterwards Bro. Joshua Moseley, Alliance secretary at Birmingham, pre sided, and gave a spirited address on the principles of the order, also giving the connective readings in a service of song.-Bro T. Clough, secretary, road a report disclos ing remarkable facts, and showing that whilst sickness and death had been stalking abroad everywhere the liandof affliction had fallau lightly on them as a society. Fourteen new members had been admitted, and the vear closed with 285, contributions ranking at £357. Applause. Sick pay had absorbed £175 10s, and one wife's death £3. The death rate of members was nil. Ap plause. Management expenses left a net profit of £95. Of cadets 38 had been a,l-mittad, and the year end showed 122 on the books. Here again there was a. profit-namely, £1910s-making a total profit on yhfi year of £115. Applause died. Applause. Tile lives numbered 480, and only one death had occurred -ora rate of only two per thousand. Applause. Over th3 five yrers the deatb rate, withaa average ! was held in the Lead Company's Schoolroom. A of oJO tires, had been 3'3-a total ol nine deaths I p U bl c meeting was heid after tea, which was ad-dressed by the Revs. W. H Gorham. T.Stephenson, K. Wilkes, Mrs evoiuug Mr G. Snggett and party gave a gro.i i concert before a large company. A s o l atraiee was held on Christmas Day hi the New Sh Inn Wesleyan Chrpel, preacher the Rev. J. Water- • house.-■ The Primitive Methodists at Old' . -'itMon had likewise a largely attcuded tea. -•• a lecture afterwards delivered by Mr 1 ilid liesbrough.-At All Saints' Church, w •h.Uon, the usaal appropriate service Cl? presebed t good congregation . £-f_ ow L r.-The customary serrioes were he'd in toe 1 arisb Church and Wesleyan Chapel in tue morning. In the evening the Wesleyan Vigilance Band held its annual mett'mg in trio I ir, ' day school, when addresses were given by M •ssr Sproatos. Nonwan, and Hillary, the eiifr being occupied by Mr Gradon. At the toae a ejlt.-e supper took place. At the Primitive I'i cd an entertainment consisting of song , solos, speeches, ami recitations was given on behalf of the Sabbath School the recently-formed string band also took part in the enter tainment. A coffee sumx-r closed the proceed ings. During the day the baud of the .Salvation Army played selections throughout the town, and the Good Templars also saug carats. Wrrros Pans.-On Christmas Eve the Baptists held special services during tlie early part of the day, and a service of song at night entitled Die Bells Across the Snow. The readings were lay Mr A. Westwood, of Bishop Auckland conduc tor, Mr G. Morgan harmoniumist, Miss P. Jenkins. On Christmas night, in tbe same place, an entertainment was given, consisting of song , solos, recitations, c. Mr Joe Pykes and party gave the sketches entitled John Mason' Rescue, and A Domineering Wife. Sougaby Miss Blackburn, Durham Miss Henderson, Witton Park and Miss Laweyers and Miss Mas-grave. High Grange, were rendered at intervals. Ilr Peacock and Miss P. Jenkins presided at the harmonium. Wl-stoate Wbardams .-Ou Saturday after noon a sale of work and Christmas tree w held in the Primitive Methodist Chapel. The opening ceremony was performed by Dr. Hewitson, of St. John's Chapel, accompanied by Mrs Hewitson, who were introduced by the Rev. R. Walton. The stall-holders were -Mrs R. Walton, Mrs Moore, Mrs John Kidd, Mrs Jos. Kidd, Mrs Freeman, Mrs Lee, Mrs J. Walton, Miss Maddison, Mrs Furness, Miss Herdman, Miss Kidd, Misses Forster, M-ss Ixonsdalc, Messrs Barkus, Furness, Moses, T. Walton, and J. Forster. A public tea and supper were also pro vided, to which a large number ol people sat down. The choir, tin ier the leadership of Mr Freeman aud Mr Kidd, rendered a choice selec tion of anthems, choruses, kc. The total pro ceeds were £87 13s 9d. Tkkmmlb.-According to usual custom the volunteers mustered in uniform, headed by the Middleton Band, and accompanied by the Hon. _ Lieut.-Col. French and Lieut. Murray, and marched to v't. Mary's Church, where the service was fully choral, the sermon being preached by the Kev. E. Swallow, of Durham, in place of the rector, who has been coffering from influenza. Tbe church was tricely deeorated, the work of tire Mi-soa Catteries and Armstrong and Messrs Hethcringtwj.-The Baptists hel l their annual festival and anniversary services, commencing Saturday e.vening, when a sacred concert was giveu in the Hude Cliapoi 'ey the choir ant Miss L.Cairns and Mr W. Thompson. Recitations were also f 'ven by the .Messrs Charles and Howard Charter. . hairmaii, Rev. W. II. Gorham, of South No cadet had j Shields, who also preached the annual sermons insured m all 011 Sunday, In tho afternoon the Sunday schoal I children gave recitations, and the choir sang sacrod anthems. On Monday the annual festival Mr ■0 4. but that, twi ■ wt of me DEATH OF MR ROBERT WADE. We have to-day to retard trio death of an old Darlington standard, i and one of tee most familiar figures ao Iriwrliugtfm market-day, woo suo uml M to a Iqnglljj- iltogss at bis rewdence, LitHc Berdan, on GSrinkmas Ray, iu his 7Sih year. Mr Wad eeroda hist .meat a ksteher with.' Mr Frank Tkeakstone, gtandfaiVer of the- pre sent head of the business in North,qate. and on tee conetosion of his of apprenticeship com menced business on he own account at Barton. Some thirty years ago he relinquished business at Barton and became the emqwer of trie farm, on which he diyd, ah Little Burden. Mv Wade was beid m high reputa by the agriculturists of the diitriot. apd was especially noted for hi excel lent results in fmdmg stock, hayrgg for years past taken prioes at the Christmas fat stock shows at the Fairfield aad other marts. He held many public offices, being the senior member of the Darlington Board f Guardians, to which he was returned as Guardian for Merton Palms in 1867. He sot on tee Pina e Assessment, Work-house Visiting, Asylum Tisilting, and Sohool At tendance Committees of the Board of Guardians and Jhc was also Chairman of Darlington Rural Sanitary Authority, irt connection with which body he held seats on the Finance, Food and Drugs, aud Legal, Coclcerton, Blackwell, Hur worth. Middleton-St.-George, and Heighington Committees. An old member of the Darlington Chamber of Agriculture, ha was ehairman of the Council of the Horso aud Dog Show. He was also vice-chairman of the Darlington Highway Board. Mr Wade bad been four times married, aud leaves a widow the sister of the late Mr Joseph Robinson, at one time proprietor of the King's Head Hotel and one son, John, who occupies a farm at Sadberge, The funeral will take place at Sadberge on Thursday. Mr John Wildsmith has been unanimously re-eleeted the operatives' representative at the Consctt Iron aad Steel Works and om of five candidates, Mir Hy. Lodge ylie tfite dele gate , Sim Wn appointed representative of tei Cohtoi-t TihipiM rpafc on the Arbitration aad faadred boAfet for trie enseiog pew. Trie Thyme 8oap Mu i Iftatsihrejsail Itnum, Ncrefi T cctt Bls d m R. M. Wilkes, Miss Wilke . Councillor T B. Swinburne, Mas and Miss Swinburne, Councillor J. Bowden, the Misses Howdeu, CouucittBr T. James, Mr R. Rogers, Mr W. Hogg Whessoe , Mrs and Miss Hogg, Mr Isaac Saw, Mr and Mrs R. R. Smith, Mr W. Robipson, Mr F. Tbeakston, Jlc and Sfre C. H. f.tiAnh, the Rev. A. Boot, Mrs Boot, Rev. A. Wild, Rev. R, Altai, Mias H, Barron, Mr A. Davidson, Mr T. Mais, Inspector Sparire N.S.P.O.C. , Mr J. W. Alnwick, See.-After full justice hgd been done to the good ttjiuga provided, WcC. H. Leach th Clerk read a letter from Mr Theodore Fry, M.P., expressing regret on behalf of himself aad Mrs Fry at not Wng uMe to bo present on that occa sion owing to A previous engagement. - Edwaud S rie, one of trie inmate , fttn proposed a vote of iriznkr. to the member of the Boabfi for their fchSttfees in paoaidieg och a feast.-The propo sition was carried by three hearty cheers.-The Mayor then ado creed the riitoates, and in the coqrse of his remarks said it was the dsssdt of every member of the Board to make thovomtefi to happy as possible at this fe ve season He also stated that he and the This was tbo average rata over 27 years Applause. -Other friends present included Messrs R. Rutherford. V. Harrison, J. Lincoln, J. Clough, R. Curtis, Buruip, Bio-nbridge, Southeron, he.-At Snuth-road Chapel there was sacred concert-Mi s M. Crawford soloist. Mr G. Dyson manipulated a series of lime light views, and Mr J. Ramsden presided. At Councillor Liugfurd's orphanage the cosy rooms were brightened with toys, decorations, and presents, of which tho children received a large share. The Baptist and Primitive ministers, and Mr Nichol, Mr Wood, c.. wero visiters and speakers.- Tile annual performance of Mrs Rayner's music pupils took place in the Edgar Memorial before a select company. Solos and dueto were undertaken with success by Misses P. Burden, L. Rowirtree, Hutchinson, Hcslop, Wil kinson, Kilhurn 2 , Redman, L. Woo-1, Rayuer 3 , M. Balgarnie, Frank, E, Brxithwnite, I. Wood, Goaw, M Callum 2 , Live-ay 2 , and Masters Proud, G Gage, and Harburu. Miss Rowutrce is a pupH of Mrs Inch, of Darlington. The High Bchool choir sang at intcivals. The Wesleyans held a sale of work in the British Schools, opened by one of the ministers. A public tea was also in the programme, and the bye-attraetiou included carol concert, magic lantern, musical drill, and maypole, under the direction of Mrs Chinn, c. RIPON. The Mayer and Corporation, in tliefr robes of office, attended service at the Cathedral, which was decorated. The Dean preach ! an appro priate sermon from St. Matthew's Gospel, ii.. 22 At the afternoon service tee Christmas portions of the Messiah Houdel were sung from, For behold to Glory to God. An address was given by the Rev. S. Reed, precentor. A special service was hold at Trinity Ckuroh, and carol services at Zion Chapel and Allhallowgate Mission Room Trinity parish . The Workhouse inmates had the customary special fare. The Bishop of Ripen preached at the Cathe dral on Sunday night iu aid of the navvy mission. NORTHALLERTON. The Northallerton Rifle and Temperaiue Bauds perambulated tho town. Tho inmates of the Cottage Hospital and the Workhouse dined off special fare. At All Saints' Church tho usual charities were dispensed by the Viear and church wardens, and there were special services, for which the church was appropriately decorated. RICHMOND. The various places of worship were decorated. At trie Parish Church Miss Wiuks sang the solos in the carols, and the Rev. A. C. Briggs rendered The Star t' Bethleham. Midnight mass was held at tbo Convent, and during Christmas Eva the Corporation Band played. The usual treat given by the Gumdiaus was held at the Work-house, which was prettily decorated, and tbe repast was served up ia splendid style by Mr apd Mrs Brierloy, the m 6tcr and matron. Assisting at tbe tables were Captain, Mrs, and Miss Geraldine Walker. Mr C. G. and Miss Tate, Major and Misses Mason, Dr. Carter and Mr Carter. Mr Wensley and the Missoe Huntoo, Sir Robert Himpson, 3itv John Hall, aad Mr William Jstmtriers. The Marchioness of Zetland gave tea, Ac., besides inviting the inmates to Aske Hall on Thursday next Mrs Roper gave tea, sugar, tobacco, and cakeo Miss Barclay, Christmas J. Charter, anil C. A. Charter. A coffee supper followed. A Christmas tree and a stall of work f irmed a great attraction to the festival On Saturday evening the Middleton Baud held n social evening in the Lead Company's schoolroom, which was well patronised. The Pride of Middleton Lodge of Druids held thoir annual festival on Saturday. A fell report will appear in tho Auckland Chronicle of this week. Hutton Rudby.-Mr and Mrs G Y. Blair have again shown their gcuerosity to the inhabi tants of Hutton Rudby and district by giving their usual Christmas gifts to the villagers Most of the families received a piece of beef, also clothes, oranges and sweets for the mothers and children. The workmen at tho hall aud on the estate b vo also been presented with a pieoe of beef and a plum isiddiog. SsnwuvtELC--Special serviees were held in the Parish Chnrch. The inmates of the Work house had special fare. Beer was sent by Mr M. Forster, J.P., Bishop Middleham ' tobacco, sweets, oranges, and apples by Dr. Sheraton and Hr Calvert eiaagcs by Mrs lawidreth fruits, sweets, and tovs by Mrs R. Robinson, Mrs Colt-1 ipnn, Mrs Adamson, Miss Viriscr . ami Mr Walker wines, Mr Fletcher, Sedgefield, and Mr Archer, South Shield sweets by Mrs W Coates. Tbe arrangements were ably carried out by Mr and Mrs Rowos the master and matron', and the children of the Workhouse had each purchased a pretty card and presented them to Mrs Bowes, as a mark of their appreciation of her kindness Wivcatb.-A Christmas tree and sale of work was opened in the Literary Institute, Wingate , on ChristmaajDay by Mrs Flecthum.lhc proceed -being in aid of the Sunday school building fundi, of the Primitive Methodists. A full report of the proceedings will be given iu Friday's Sy Jh Dtirfhvn nki Cleietend .Mcrcur . - The railway employes of tbe district held their sceou.' anuulf supper ou Saturday night at trie Queen's Hotel, Wingate. After the removal of the cloth. Mr Beatty was voted to the chair, and a most enjoy able evening was spent. Daring the evening Mr Win. Elliott was presented with the emblem of Amalgamated Society of Railway frervanfs for services rendered. GinsBnocoH.-At the Workhouse on Christman Day the inmates had an excellent dinner of roast . heel' and plum pudding, provided by the Guar dians. After dinner the men were supplied with tobacco and fruit, aud the women and children with fruit and sweets -The Primitive Methodists held a public tea in the afternoon, which was fairly attended. Thhisb.-Special services were held at ffc Parish Church and at Sowcrhy. Tho ognvl Christmas, fare was partakeu of at the Wotx-house, the diuuer being served up by Mr aud Mrs Weodhfcll iu enjoyable style, whilst the following were present to wait on the inmates -Ste Charles Mc.C. Kwarbrcck, the Misses Swarbreck, Dr. Longford, Mr Robert Holyday, Mr Parndale. Miss Farndale, Mr G, H. aud Master Hyam, Mr John Harriss, Mis- and Master Amos. Miss Smith, and Miss Walton. Bedaub.-At the Parish Church the usual charities were distributed by the rioar and churchwardens, while Sir F. A. Mubank and other geutleinen distributed their Christmas gift . Special services were held at Bedalc, Parish Church on Christmas Day. As usual Copt. Car ter, the chairman of the Bedale Bench, gave each Mayorea intendad giving Sic intastes another dinner on Now Years Day. Loud app-euse. Ho then mpvefbavAte of thanks to the officers far the excefitai way they hpdcarried out all the arrangcmMifie awi for decorating the dining hail so tastefully. 'Applause. -The motion was carried to tad acctamoften. -The Workhouse Master K r MQrwortto a T Tle 'I f nks on behaK of trie offibets, and ingoing o said they wished to make the inmates a comfortable as possible. Appbtere.V-Copfcahl Swinburne, the Rev. A. Boot, Ceireeittor J. Hawden. and Aid. Wilkes also delivered brief addresses. Beer was supplied by Mr Isaac Smith, the licensed victuallers, and Mr D. Warwick lemanaiV by Mr W. Bobtawe oranges by Mr J, Anwyll aad Mr R J. ftititthfieU Christmas cards by Messrs Bailey Co,, mi7. N. Getter, and bit T. Wood holly. kMf, by Sirs D. Date and Cel. Wilson Cliffs tehtieo by Capt. Swinburne and Mr J. owden clay pip by Mr Boston Nortbgate J. K. Wilkes aad Councillor J. o Board ? £ tor. aad l m -lay, Darlington. cfllfi ' Steel Ifi ?l£ .. DiatoVn oekton. cards Me D. Close, apples and oranges Mr ! vagrant a currant cake. At the Uaion Work-hfe Thomas M'Guinness, house the 20 inmates dined off roast beef end ' ~ plum pudding, whilo the officers were regaled with a goose. Leybubn.-The Leybum and District Brass Band paraded the town, and speoiat services were held at St. Matthew's Church, which was ejipro-pi iately deoorated. Shaw, tobacco nuts, autaaanges. At Kiobmond Barracks tSe customary festivities were hell. The Marchioness of jstlaud hoe reopened her soup lyiefcen, and ou Saturday tier Ladyship distri buted warm filter clothing amongst the aged poor of the ord town. 'tl Misses Yeoman, of Prior House, Lave boon dkriug the post two days distributing Winter comforts to several aged people in Richmond, and on Thursday they will entertain trie whole of the Infant Bchool children. BARNARD CASTLE. Late en Christmas Bee and during the early hours of Christmas massing vain fell heavily, preventing the usual amount of carol singing. Special serview wore held in St. Mary's Church - - -• ., hot! FIRE AT STOCKTON. oth places tea by AW Howden Hoys, . . the Rev. T. Law Haughton-le-Skeme . A most c., by Mrs W. J. Stewart and enjoyable day was spent by all in the house. The Christian Lay Church held the annual tea on Christmas Day, when a good number partook of the good things provided by Mrs C. Appleton, Mrs Patterson. Mrs J. Mackie, Mrs Wake, Mrs •Robinson and Mrs Law . After tea an entertain-men wt spresided over by Alderman W. Harding. Fongs were ably reudered by Messrs M'Nicholl, Cummings and Smith, and Messrs C. Reynolds and E. J. Laws mandoline solo by Miss Barker recitations by Messrs Llewellyn and Whatmongh, and instrumental selections by Miss Wilson and the Cockerton quartette. Mi s F. Smith and Mr W. Heslop presided at the piano. THE HABTLBP60L6. Christmas was observed here in a quiet meaner. On Chrietmas morning ai Mft heavily, aad the weather was intense cold, yet a large number of persons attended the early communion services held ad -both pbufqh 6 ckopaki, AB the eharehee were beautifully decoaated with ever-la Mv. early Sowing, and a fear Ml Urn former durhreJb day the wbpto ot the inmate of fee ?isr i and Holy Trinity Church, tartfortb, being tastefully decorated. The members of the P Company 2nd Vol. Baft. D L L marched to and from the former churo'a in the morning, headed by their haad. The usnal treat of roast beef aud pluui pudding wa given to the inmates ol' trie Teesdale Union Workhouse, and the fostjsNtia6 were continued in trie evening. A public entertainment was provided at night hy the yotme pcopto of the Primitive Methodist Society. Mr A. Hilton presiding over a large and appreciative audience. Part 1. consisted of miscellaneous items, and a Christmas cantata, The Frost Qneoa, made up a g o-.l second par-t. the characters being ably represented. The third part was a performance by twelve members of the Boys' Brigade hy kind permission of the Rev. A, H. Ford . Some interesting drill exercises were gone through in a most creditable manner, under tho command of Sergt. Quelch, of tbe 3rd D.L.I. Shildok.-At the Parish Church of St. John's special aud appropriate services were held, the offertory being devoted to the fund for the sick and aged. The Wesleyan Methodists at Old Shitdon had their annual bazaar, its object on this occasion being to raise funds for the Sunday School Building Extension Fund. Mr Kellet, of Bishop Auckland, appropriately discharged the opening function. Mesdames Marquis, Rod, Ritsoii, Brown, Richardson, And Jameson, the Misses Ritoon, Mabev, Brunskiil, James, and Tyson presided over the variant stalls, and were tMy assisted by M rs Rttoou, Watson, Robson, Muggeridge, Coaxes, Smedloy, and Brabben. A grand conoert was given in trie evening by the New Bbildon Wadeyan Choir, tindor the leadership of Mr WT Metcalfe.-The Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants hod their annual tea, and afterwards ad journed to a ouncert given by tho Tem perance Brass Band, under the leadership •t Mr W, Gibbon, the proceeds of tea and concert to ba given to rise orphan fund. A eale of work wa opened on Saturday in the New Shitdoa Wesieyeu Schools, and continued on Christmas Day. On Saturday Ob Sunday morning, the extensive warehooee of Messrs Richardson k Cellitt, general and fancy goods dealers ia Prince Regent-street, Stockton, was burnt. About 1.40 a m. P.O. Feat her.stone observe! that the building was ou fire aad promptly communicated with the fire brigade. The lire station being situated in the nsut street the brigade, with engine, hosereel, and steamer, under the command of Capt. Appleby, were able to be ou the spot within a minute after the information was received. The building was in a mass of damns, and the effort of the brigade were meinly direutod to saving the adjacent property, and having a goad supply ef water they were able to confine the conflagration to the warehouse. Nearly tbe whole of the stock was burnt, and the building was considerably damaged, nothing but ths walls remaining. It is uot known how the fire originated. The stock is insured. NORTHERN IRON TRADE THE OPERATIVES AND THB SLIDING SCALE. A special private meeting of the operative delegates of the North of England Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for trie Iron ntid Steel Trade was held in the Mechanics' Institute, Dar lington, on Saturday, to consider the offer of the employers made at the last meeting-the renewal of the sliding-scale on the old basis. Tbe whole of the works of the North of England were represented, and Mr William Kettley pre sided. There was a strong feeling that certain action of the Stockton Malleable Company hoc the offer of the employers made it difficult for tbe operatives to favourably consider th employers' offer or to accept it. After a long disenaskm, however, it was unanimously re solved that the operative could not accept the offer of the employers until the action of tbe Stockton Malleable C.nnpauy was thoroughly gone ioto, and a guarantee given that in tbe eve of the workmen accepting tbe offer of th employers, it should be strictly adhered to, and that no firm should endeavour to induce the workmen to aocopt a private reduction during the oonfiiiuanee of toe scale. A rosolurion was aW passed to tbe effect that the question of tbo shortening of hnnrs in the iron and steel mills in the district should be dealt with. A. 
Sept. 13, over the limbs, injured, hopes are females escaped ernoon of Thurs-ihe deputy-coroner an who committed mewhat extraordi-n, named Harriet deposed to having y. the 2nd inst., at street, where she d a friend of his. ing the deceased snham street, and nesday afternoon, kfast, but he re-lassidenc it. The jury Mr Rentmore, on. W. J. Hall and upon the Lord o make a com-icide of a gen-in a steam fternoon, when r passage from senger, jumped ast the Shears, er saw the un-engine to he lowered awl 1845. the examiner. manned. The order was instantly obeyed, but all the efforts of the crew were ineffectual. The deceased sunk and was seen no more. No appearance of insanity was attached to him, as far as those on board had opportunity of ascertain ing during the voyage, but he was observed to be exceed ingly low spirited and restless. On Friday night he partook of tea with the rest of the passengers, and he sat in the cabin all night. On Saturday morning he took breakfast alone. At about two o'clock in the afternoon he had a small bottle of porter and a biscuit, and after the other passengers had dined, he dined by himself on deck, and soon after he had finished his meal, he committed himself to the waves. He was about 5 feet 8 inches high, had a round face, appeared to be 30 or 31 years of age, and was dressed in a laglioni coat, light drab trousers, light waistcoat, light handkerchief, and Wellington boots. According to the best of the recol lection of Mr Barrow, the clerk of the William Darley, the deceased had a watch in his pocket at the time he jumped overboard. A certificate was handed to the Lord Mayor, signed by the whole of the passengers, to the effect that every exertion was made by the captain to save the unfortunate man. A passenger was booked as Mr H. C dl, Norwich, who was supposed to be the gentleman who drowned him self, as a box, with his name upon it, was left on board, and had not been claimed. There was also a light leather port manteau, a coat, and fishing tackle, unclaimed. The de ceased was said to have destroyed himself just as the other passengers had all moved to the opposite side of the vessel to look at the Gazelle steamer, which was rapidly passing along. Rebecca Again.-In carrying out the provisions of the late Act of Parliament relating to the Turnpike trusts in South Wales, some of the gates in the neighbourhood of Brecon have already been removed, the tolls reduced, and the distances between othergates are about being equalized. Among the latter ihe turnpike-gate near the ninth mile stone on the Merthyr road is to be removed, and a new toll-house erected this side of the Storys Arms. This build ing was last week in course of erection, and in a few days expected to be finished, but on Monday morning last, upon the workmen going to their work, the new toll house had disappeared, and the men were struck with astonishment at the industry displayed by the parties who had in so short a period levelled their work.-' Hereford Paper.' Fatal Outrage at Newmarket.-A most painful interest has been produced in this town by the perpetration of a premeditated and brutal outrage upon the person of a highly respectable inhabiiant, whose death is universally deplored. The name of the deceased is Henry Thom, who carried on business as a hatter. The accused is Richard Archer, for some time managing clerk to a solicitor. The origin of the quarrel between the parties arose out of some proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court relative to the affairs of a person named Edward Edwards, against whom a fiat had been issued. The creditors having resolved to oppose Edwards, the deceased Mr Thom was selected to conduct the opposition. It seems that Archer was a personal friend of the bankrupt and though Thom did not in any way exceed the duty which he was called on to perform, he pro voked the hostility of Archer, who repeatedly proclaimed his determination to have revenge. These threats he found opportunity for carrying into fatal effect on Saturday evening last, when, meeting the deceased in the market place near his own door, Archer, after a few angry words, struck Mr Thom two heavy blows, which knocked him down, causing contusion of the brain. The deceased was carried home in a state of insensibility, and he died on Sunday morning. Archer has since absconded. Strike on the North British Railway.-On Mon day morning last, nearly five hundred men in the Cock-burnspath district, who have received from 14s. to 16s. per week, struck for an advance of wages to 20s. This demand being refused, the men proceeded along the line towards Berwick, and compelled every man whom they met to stop liis work and join them. Where their commands were not promptly complied with, the mob carried them into effect by force, and, in consequence, the movement was joined by a great number of men along the line. About 1,400 men altogether struck work-an alarming state of things cer tainly, when we consider that neither in this town nor within twenty miles is there any adequate military or civil force. About 400 of the men remained at Ayton, and several hundreds at other places. On Wednesday morning a number of the men assembled at the hiring place for siiearers, but would not allow them to be hired except on their terms. The wages offered by the farmers were Is. 8d. per day, but the navies in. isted that they should receive 3s. or they should not be hired at all. The magistrates, we understand, having taken into consideration the defenceless state of the town, and the facility with which such a body of men might commit any outrage, have resolved to make an application for a detachment of military to be stationed at Berwick. On Wednesday a few of the men returned to their work on Mr Dodds's contract, and on Thursday morning the greater number of Mr Evans's men also re turned They have not received any advance of wages.-' Berwick Warder.' 589 Dreadful Occurrence.-A Man Literally Dis solved.-A young man, named Joseph Brammey, residing at Hadfield, in Glossop, Derbyshire, and employed at the Dinting Vale print works, belonging to Mr Potter, was lately found in a pan containing 300 gallons of caustic ley, which was at a boiling heat. How he came in is not known but it is supposed that he went to the top of the pan to see if the ley was boiling, and, standing on the edge, must have fallen into the horrible grave. The deceased had not been seen about the premises after twenty minutes past ten o'clock. At a quarter past one Robert Stubes went to stir up the liquor in the pan, when to his great alarm he discovered some of the deceased's clothes, the body being quite eaten away by the liquor. Assistance was immediately procured, and search made for the remains of the deceased. The liquor in the pan was thrown away, and at the bottom of the pan nothing but a few bones could he found, and these looking as if they had been in the ground a hundred years. The leather and soles of his clogs were eaten away a portion of his clothes, that were made of cotton, had sustained little injury and the irons and nails that had been in his clogs were found. The deceased's teeth were discovered all separate. Strange to say, the deceased's heart was found by itself quite sound. All that was collected of the body did not weigh 71bs., and if these parts had remained in the liquor three hours longer not a particle would have been left. The deceased was about 17 years of age.-' Derby Mercury.' Singular Death.-Last week a man named David Bol-lison, about 27 years of age, by trade a butcher, living in s j!' eet ,a P ton gate, was engaged in carrying a young c . . ? the slaughterhouse, and whilst proceeding along with the animal upon his shoulders, it suddenly turned its head round, and caught his throat with its teeth, and did not release its hold until the unfortunate man was strangled. He was conveyed home, and a surgeon immediately tried every means to restore him, but to no effect. The sudden ness of the attack caused the unfortunate man to fall to the ground, and having hold of the animal's feet with both hands, prevented him extricating himself from his anta gonist. ady and the Leopard. - On Monday night Mr Gieen made another ascent in his Nassau balloon from the gardens of Cremorne house, and it being announced that he would be accompanied by a lady and a leopard, a y nW rge com P at, y were assembled, there being nearly 12,000 persons present. At half-past six, a female, together with a young male leopard, the property of a Mr White, a trainer of beasts, and the keeper, made their appearance upon the grounds. A car had been prepared for the occa sion, and attached beneath the regular one. The three having entered it, Mr Green placed himself in the upper car, when they proceeded to make several ascents to the height of the trees, at the conclusion of which the aeronaut made preparations for his final ascent with Mrs Green, Mrs C. Green, Mr Salter, Mr Hardwicke the magistrate , Mr Li tlejohn, c., in all eleven persons. The balloon having been released, took a south -westerly direction, in which course it proceeded for some time, when entering another current of air, it returned towards the gardens, over which it hovered for some time, and finally it descended at Notting hill, about half-past eight, and Mr Green returned to the gardens. How to raise the Wind. - The following strange story lias appeared in a French paper - Madame C , wife of a mercer, who has lately been successful in railway operations, has been for a length of time enamoured of play, and during the past winter she lost almost constantly. Her husband at last refused to pay a sou of her play debts, so that the lady gambler was often in difficulties. She returned home a few nights since, after having lost a large sum at lansquinet, mul remained up pondering by what means she could contrive to discharge her obligations. Whilst thus occupied she heard a noise in an adjoining closet. She rose at once, and opening the door found the eldest servant of the family endeavouring to pick the lock of an armoire-a glace in which she kept her jewels. The man was thunder struck at the appearance of his mistress, and prayed her most earnestly not to inform against him. An idea sud denly occurred to Madame C . ' Listen to me,'said she. 'It is you who have already robbed me on several occa sions the act I have caught you in proves it. You will be sent to the galleys if I inform against you. There is one way of escaping I want 10,000f. You have a quantity of picklocks in your hand. If you open your master's safe and take out that sum for me, and no more, I shall say nothing about what I have seen to-night.' The conditions were hard, but the man consented. Scarcely, however, had he introduced one of the instruments into the lock of the safe, when a loud detonation was heard, and the man fell to the ground, dreadfully wounded by a ball from a pistol, which M. C had got fixed inside to prevent robbery. M. C arrived in a minute after, and was the first to lift up the man, who still had the picklocks in his hand. The commissary of police being sent for, received from the thief a full state ment of what had taken place. He was removed to the Hospital St Louis, where he lies in the utmost danger. Madame C--, who denies most strongly the truth of the man's declaration, has withdrawn to her family. Fires.-On Wednesday morning a fire, which was not subdued until property to a considerable extent had been destroyed, broke out in the back workshops belonging to Mrs H. Fowler, an extensive skin-dyer, situate at No. 12 Eagle court, St John's lane, Clerkenwell-a densely popu lated and closely packed locality. The workshops were composed of brick and timber they were two stories high, and between sixty and seventy feet long. They were entirely burned down, and the valuable stock in trade contained in them consumed. Several other houses and workshops were greatly injured, and the whole damage will amount to a con siderable sum. Mrs Fowler was insured, but the majority of the other sufferers were not so fortunate. On the same morning the premises belonging to Mr Gilham, painter and glazier, Tottenham court road, were discovered to be on fire. The flames originated in the front shop, and passed from thence to the back parlour on the same floor. Owing to the large quantity of stock in the place, which was of a highly combustible nature, the flames spread with the greatest fury, speedily enveloping the ground floor. The inmates, after much trouble, managed to get out of the burning building, but they had not time to dress themselves. The whole of Mr Gilham's stock was consumed, and the ground floor burned out. Unfortunately the proprietor was not insured. On Sunday night a fire broke out in the premises belonging to Mr Grogan, oil cloth manufac-facturer and japanner, carrying on business in Princes place, Walworth common. It originated in the manufac tory, a building between fifty and sixty feet long, which was filled with goods, some finished and others partly so. This building was burnt to the ground, and the valuable stock destroyed. up to a recent date a subject of dispute i amount upwards of 300,000 ., the effect - stock was in upon the market was less iff 981 were finally v onsois lor monpv loft not to jj, and for the account, 98 to b, Exchequer bills were quoted 45s. to 47s. pm and India stock, 270 to 271 re There was no change of importance in the English stock marker on Wednesday. The last quotations were-Consols, 98A to for money, and 98 to £ for the account ludia Stock, 270 to 271 • and Exchequer bills, 45s. to 47s. pm. The funds showed very little movement on Thursday. Prices continued tolerably firm, and the chief bargains were the ordinary investments of the public. Consols for money left off 98£ to g, and for the account 98 to India Stock closed 269 to 270 and Exchequer bills, 46s. to 48s. pm. The funds on Friday were very steady, and this, too, with an extremely dull market. Consols closed 98 to § for money, and 98 to l for account. Exchequer bills were firm, at 46s. to 48s. pm. India Stock was better supported at 271. South Sea Annui ties quiet at 97 . SATURDAY, FOUR O'CLOCK. From the List of Mesas fFolfe, Brothers, Stock-brokers, Change alley. BRITISH. Consols Do. Account - -3 per Cent. Reduced -3 New Long Annuities - -Bank Stock - - - -India Stock - - - -Exchequer Bills - -India Bonds - - -Price. FOREIGN. Price. 98 Belgian -----1004 98 Brazil 90 Shut Colombian-Venezue. 45 Shut Do. Ex Do. - - - -isf Shut Danish -----90 Shut Dutch 2£ per Cent. -62 279 French 3 per Cent. -84 64s Mexican 5 per Ct. New 32J 47s Portuguese Converted 63 Russian -----1144 Spanish 5 per Cent. -27J Ditto 3 per Cent. - -33 A Ditto Deferred - -nl Ditto Passive COMMERCE AND TRADE. Wool -The market in London is steady, and will soon have its strength tested by public sales, foi the arrivals are large. During the week ending on Thursday, the impoits have been 2,569 bales, of which 1,176 were from Tagauroy, 729 from Algoa Bay, 661 from Germany, and 3 from Belgium. Cotton.-At Manchester the trade in cotton has greatly im proved during the last fortnight, no doubt attributable to the fine harvest weather, but the export demand has not improved. At Liverpool the sales on Thursday amounted fiom 5,000 to 6,000 bales, 1,500 being on speculation. The market is rather quiet, but beyond this there is no change whatsver to notice. The sales of the week are Friday, 8,000 Saturday, 2,500 Monday, 4,000 l uesday, 6,000 2,000 on speculation and Wednesday, 6,000 2,000 on speculation total, 26,500 bags. SHARE LIST. Price. Shares. Paid. £ £ £ Birmingham and Gleucester - -131 100 _ Blackwall -9 25 , Brighton - -- -- -- --754 50 __ Bristol and Exeter ------89 100 70 Chester and Holyhead - - - -19 50 15 Croydon ---------244 20 Eastern Counties ------194 25atherine's Do. 109 Stock -Grand Junction Canal - - - - -100 100 100 Imperial Gas - -- -- -- -92 50 50 Phoenix Do. --------30 50 39 United General Do. -----30 50 49 Westminster Chartered Do. - - -69 50 50 Alliance Insurance ------20 100 11 Globe Do. -------- -142 100 100 50 100 36 CORN MARKETS. From Messrs Gillies and Horne's Circular. Corn Exchange, Monday, Sept. 8.-There was a short supply of Essex wheat this morning, the most of it of the new crop, the condition better than last week considerably, and the market was decidedly in favour of the seller. There was no change in barley all the large consumers are waiting for the new crop. Oats are 6d. dearer than last Monday Archangel were much forced on the market last Wednesday, which has brought buyers forward to-day. Beans are firm. Peas of all kinds are the same as last week. Flour is firm. Per qr. i Wheat, Essex, Kent, and Suffolk, red - - 45s 58s Ditto, white - 45s 64s Lincoln, Cam THE FUNDS. On Monday the funds had not recovered the depression of the three preceding days the amount of business transacted was very limited. Consols closed at 98 for money, and 98 for the account. India Stock left oft'at 270 to 271 and India Bonds, 62 to 64 pm. On Tuesday the funds were rather firmer. Although the amount of business transacted was not extensive, still, as the pressure .of' sales had passed, there was more buoyancy in prices. It is now understood that the cause of he depression of the previous two or three days arose from the disposal of stock to settle the accounts bridge, Norfolk, red 53s 58s - - Ditto, white - -s -s Dantzic free fine ----- . 62s -s Barley, English Malting and Chevalier - s -s Grinding, c. - 23s 28s Distillers - - - 28s 30s Oats, English Feed - - -s -s , Polands - - s -s Scotch Feed - - - -s -s Potato, English and Scotch - - - - -s -s hold - - 46s 53s Norfolk and Suf folk 42s 44s Corn Exchange, Fridav, Sept. 12.-Good old wheat is in demand at Is. over Monday's rates. Barley is about the same as on Monday. Oats are 6d. dearer than on Monday, with a quick demand. Beans are firm. White and blue peas are scarce, and a shade dearer than on Monday. The flour trade is not better than on Monday. IMPORTATIONS Into London from September 7 to September 11, both inclusive. Flour. English Scotch Irish - - - -Foreign - - -I Wheat. Barley. Oats. Malt. 1 Qrs. Qrs. j Qrs. Qrs. 1 5410 i 370 . ! 60 3950 1 -780 1 -14010 1260 f 3000 - ! G260 seks. - seks. - brls. ..-. M . The average price of Brown or Muscovado Sugar, computed from between the South-Eastern and Brighton Company, which were 1 the returns made in the week ending Sept, 9, is 3as, 1 ja, per cw
4---ijr THE MORNING CHRONICLE, FRIDAY, JANUARY 1. JtAlLW.IV FROM LON DOR TO CAM BRIDGE, NORWICH, AND YARMOUTH. A meeting was held on Wednesday, at the Hast India and Colonial Club rooms, in Suffolk-street, l'all-mall, for tbe purpose of considering the propriety of establishing Milway tojoiu the Northern and Eastern Railway, at Itishop's Stortford, to Norwich and Yarmouth, by Cam bridge, Newmarket, aud Thetford. The meeting, which was both numerous and highly respectable, wus attended by tho Marquess of Douro, M. V,, W. L. W. Chute, K q M. P-, Benjamin Smith, Esq., M. P., Mr. Alderman l arcbrother, Isaac Jcrmy, Esq., Recorder of Norwich, Samuel Bignold, Ksq., Edward Varnish. Ksq., General Blachford, Major Head, Captain Kerr, Richard Broun, Ksq., George Robinson, Esq., William Taylor, Esq , W. J. Taylor, Ksq., James V. Smith, Esq., Thomas Hamtnoud, Ksq. Yarmouth . J. 1.. Cufaude, Ksq. Yarmouth , .1. Harman, Ksq., chairman of the Brighton Railway, - M'Lean, Esq., William Drake, Esq East Dereham j, Mr, Mann t Nor erich', William Clark, Ksq. Thetford , Chistopher Span-ton, Ksq. Attleborough , Richard Lloyd, Ksq., A. A. H. Beckwith, Ksq. governor of the Corporation ol Guardians of Norwich , William Andrews, Ksq., Hyde Clarke, Ksq , William 1-axton, Ksq., James Sowerby, Ksq., Joseph Parkes, F.sq., W. M. Kitton, Ksq., of Norwich, with nu merous other influential gen.lemen. styled the Norfolk, Suffolk, and .Cambridge Railway Company. Mr. Bigrold rejoiced to learn from the report ef their taieuted engineer that the contemplated line of railway would not interfere at all with the purksor estates ef pri vate gentlemen, and he hoped that circumstance would conciliate man? in their favour. He alluded to that statement in the icnort more particularly, because a very intelligent and influential gentleman, who he believed was honoured and respected by all who knew him Mr. Richard Gurney , had expressed, through the press, his hostility to railways, because they cut through and de stroyed valuable estates, but when that gentleman ascer-t,.iiied that Mr. Rastrick's line would commit no such in jury, he Mr. Bignold I hoped that his extensive and pow erful influence would be exerted in favour of an un dertaking that could not fail to prove highly beneficial to his follow-citizens cheers , Mr. Rastrkk wished to state that there was oue nobleman s park affected by the line, namely, Lord Bray-brooke's, but the act obtained by the Northern and Eastern Counties Railway Company would obviate all difficulty in that respect. Ii.xai Jermv, Esq., recorder of Norwich, and chair man ol the county quarter sessions, rose to move the next resolution, in doing so he observed that a meeting had been advertised to be held at Norwich next Tnurr-d iy. To the requisition calling that meeting were the names of a great number of men of property and in W. L. W. Chute, Esq. M.P. was called to the chair, j j uen ce, and that meeting had been called for the pur-The Marquess of I ouko, in moving the first reso u ioD, pose ot considering, not what particular line should be served that some people objectedI to railways alogetner, u j optc d but wbM wns be8t t0 bc done without regard s.i . . . l. ,1 ... .l . .. jm ..t ..Awtrikntn mttnn fn this mi n_ ' bser . . . , and thought that they did not contribute much to the pub lie contonicnce but even those persons would agree that a railway to Norwich was necessary when they were made aware ef the fact, that those places which had an easy and quick communication with London by means of rail road had an advantage of which Norwich and Yarmouth had hitherto been deprived, and which proved highly in jurious to the commerce and agriculture of those popu lous and important towns hear, hear , Tho resolu tion was ax follows That this meeting is impressed with a strong conviction, that unless the county ol Norfolk, city of Norwich, and tow as of Cambridge, Newmarket, Thetford, and Great Yarmouth, by the immediate construction of a railway to the metropolis, arc placed upon an equality with other parts of the kingdom, where railroad, are completed, and an progress, the great agricultural and commereial in terests of this importantdistrict must materially suffer in the race of competition. Samuel Bignold, Esq. of Norwich , seconded the resolution. He felt that the railway was necessary for the welfare of the city of Norwich, which stood parti cularly in need of the benefits of u railway communica tion with the metropolis hear, hear . He had lately-had an opportunity of communicating with the leading manufacturers In Norwich, and there was an universal complaint that the manufacturing interest was sutfer-jug greatly in consequence of not having the advan tage of a railway. The merchants and traders of London could visit York and return to London almost in the lime they could now merely go to Norwich. He was therefore prepjrcd to support to the utmost the formation of a railway to Norwich, but he would not lend that sup port to any project which he was not fully satisfied was aet on foot for the public good. If he eould for a moment suppose there was any political object, or any other object Jo this project than the promotion of public interests and the welfare ol his fellow citizens, he would immediately retire from it hear. hear . Two years ago there was a talk of u railway to Norwich, but there was then an unwillingness on the part of the citizens of Norwich to put down their numes for shares, because they were ap prehensive that the project would terminate like the Eastern Counties affair-that the railway would be com pleted for about thirty or forty miles from London, and Norwich left iu the lurch. He himself stated at the time, that if they would commence the work at Norwich he would take shares to the amount of J ,000 . He was pre pared to say the same again and if it could be shown to tne citizens of Norwich that there was a bvnafid inten tion of connecting Norwich with the metropolis, people of all sbudes of political opinion would come forward and support it hear, hear . He highly approved of the line now contemplated, and would support it by taking shares, although it would not be in his power, being a commercial man, to take any active part in the management. Mr. Bignold concluded amidst great applause, by seconding the lirst resolution, which was carried unanimously. B. ri.'iiTH, Esq., M. P. for Norwich, proposed the second resolution, and expressed his opinion that the line pro posed by Mr. Rastrisk, the engineer, was a good line. Indeed, he did not scruple to say that he had always been of opinion that a line in the direction of Cambridge would be the cheapest und most preferable. The resolution was os follows - That this meeting are of opinion that a line of railway proceeding from armouth to Bishop's Stortford. by way of Norwich, Wymondham, Attle borough, Thetford, Newmarket,and Cambridge, will afford advantages for carrying out the objects proposed, and may apparently be completed at a reasonable cost, end secure a considerable traffic, with a prospect of in crease, by the junction of railways from the north at Cambridge, and by the completion of branches from Lin colnshire, Huntingdonshire, Bury St. Edmund's, and other parts of Suffolk, and all parts of the important dis tricts of the Bedford Level the towns ot Lynn, Swaff-ham, Kakenham, and Dereham, and all the western parts of Norfolk. Thomas Hammond, Esq., a magistrate of Yarmouth, .and chairman of the Fishing Merchants' Club, seconded the resolution. He was happy to say that in the town of Yarmouth all party feeling with regard to this matter was completely buried in oblivion. Every one must feel the importance of a railway not only to Yarmouth and Norwich, but to the whole county hear, hear, , ear and he was authorised to state on behalf of the trading and fishing interests in the town of Yarmouth that they would lend their utmost endeaveurs to carry the measure into full effect cheers . He agreed with Mr. Bignold that the work should be commenced simultaneously at each end, because Norwich and Yar mouth had been thrown in the background by th con duct of the Eastern Counties Railway Company. He understood that tbe members for Yarmouth were out of town, otherwise, he had ascertained, they would have attended this meeting but he could state for the inform ation of tho gentlemen present, that a few weeks ago he had a long conversation with them upon the subject of a line of railroad to Yarmouth, aud they both pledged them selves to use their utmost endeavours to have it carried into operation cheers . Mr. Rastru k then read the following extracts from an able and elaborate Report, which he had prepared -TNc line proceeds from Bishop's Stortford to Cam bridge thence to Newmarket, Mildcnhall, Thetford, At tleborough, Wymondam, and Norwich to Yarmouth. •• In carrying out the line, but little difficulty will be experienced in getting through Parliament as to the part between Bishop's Stortford and Cambridge, iuasmuch as all questions with the landowners have been settled in the act obtained by the Northern and Eastern Company, but subsequently abandoned by them for want of funds. The geological character of nearly the entire line is the .chalk formation, furnishing materials of the most fa vourable description, both for cuttings and embankments, and the road, when once made. n a ' be maintained at the minimum expense. , . . The most expensive part o. the line is between Bishop's Stortford and Cambridge, anu time required for its completion would be about three years. - This part of the line has, however, extensive a. v n ' tages. forming as it does the key to all railroads to the metropolis coming in this direction from the north, as well as from Norwich and all other parts of Norfolk, Lincoln shire, Huntingdonshire, Cambridgeshire, Suffolk, and some portion of the county of Middlesex, thereby insuring a good dividend to the shareholders upon that portion of tbe capital expended in forming it. The obtaining the proprietorship of this part of the line is therefore most important. No tuDnei will be required from Cambridge to Yar mouth, a distance of nearly eighty miles, and there arc no extraordinary deep cuttings nor embankments, and only-one viaduct, and no deep ravines or rapid rivers to cross, whilst the materials arc of such an excellent quality of cuttings that they may be cut upright, and a large por tion of the land is of so inferior a quality that its pur chase will form an iuconsiderable item in the expenditure, and the line does not pass through or interfere with any gentleman's park or pleasure grounds, nor in any way passes iu an objectiouabic manner through any town. .. i lC . whole line will form an easy and expeditious means of communication from, to, and between Cam-bridge, Newmarket, the ffwaffhams, Eordham, Soham. Mildcnhall, Thetford, Brandon, Harliog, the Bucken-hams, Kennioghall, Attleborough, Hingham, Wymond ham ' Norwich, und Yarmouth, affording facilities for branches Irom Ware, Hertford, Huntingdon, St. Neots, Ely ij ur y gt. Edmund's, Downturn, Swaffham, Dere ham Lvnn, aud thence to Wisbech, Stamford, and the whole of the improving and important district of the Great Bedford Level of the Kens and also forming the natural communication between the metropolis and the contemplated new district of the Great Level of the VV ash. ,, yvj, b a these populous cities, towns, und villages, there can b no doubt but that the passenger traffic along this line will be immense .und the line between Cambridge and Yuimouth can be made in the short space of two years, whilst that from Bishops Stortford will require only one year longer, so that this entire line will be open to tbe public in three years. •• The cost between Cambridge and Norwich is esti mated at a less sum per mile than any other railway in tho kingdom of so great AD extent can be made for, this part of iine extending for six'V-threc miles. •• The cost between Norwich and Yarmouth is esti mated at a still less sum per mile this part of the line extending over about eighteen miles, and giving the greatest possible facility to the fishing intei . st ' n ® n ' D S off their fish to the metropolis und the intei'. ,or of 'h e couutry, and forming tlic most advantageous and i'.7'f ° r tant station in the kingdom for the northern foreign ma packets Mr. Kastiuck also produced an estimate of the expenses of the formation of the line, together with a calculation of the traffic from data carefully collected, showing a profitable return to the shareholders for the capital to be invested. The resolution was put by the Chairman, and carried unanimously. Mr. Beckwith then liauded to the chairman a latter from the sheiitl of Norwich, expressing his decided appro bation of Urn meeting, and the proposed line of railway. Mr. Bignold proposed the third resolution, which was seconded by E. Varnish, Esq., aud carried unanimously. It was as follows-That John I'rpeth Rastrick, Esq , having produced to this mectiug sections and plans ex-tending over such line, and having made a report thereon, showing its great advantages and facilities for execution, this meeting are of opinion that a company should be im mediately formed for the completion of the same, to be to the interests of solicitors, agents, engineers, or any party whatsoever hear, hear, hear . For him self he could couscientiously state that he discountenanced unythiug of the sort, but before they could expect to en list the public in their cause, they must satisfy them that they were determined to carry on the undertaking per fectly independent of all private interests hear, hear, hear . The best way in which they could manifest such a determination was to tender their co-operation to the meeting about to be heid at Norwich, to afford them every information and explanation in their power, and to unite with them in carrying out the common object. If that meeting desireda little deviation from the proposed line, the object should be to endeavour to meet their view. So if meetings should be heid in Suffolk or Cambridge, they ought to be met in the same spirit hear, hear . The reso lution which had been entrusted to him was as fellows -That having observed with great satisfaction the an nouncement of a meeting of the landowners of Norfolk, for the purpose of supporting a railway, this meeting re quests its chairman forthwitn to put himself in communi cation with those gentlemen, it being the opinion of this meeting that it is essential for ensuring the success of so great an undertaking that all interests should co-operate in one united effort to obtain its completion. J. Harman, Esq., chairman of the Brighton Rail way Company, seconded the resolution. He was in no way connected with the counties ef Norfolk aud Suffolk, but was a London man. He had, however, been engaged in a very large railway undertaking, and having had the plans ami sections of ihe proposed railway to Yarmouth laid before him, und explained by Mr. Rastrick, who had acted with him in carrying out the London and Brighton Railway, he had no hesitation in saying that he fully ap proved of the undertaking. At the same time he would state his conviction that if they went before Parliament with any decided opposition they would find it difficult to get parties toco-opcratc with them and if gentlemen who were locally interested in the promotion of the railway did not also come forward in such a manner us to convince tlie moneyed interest of London und other places that they were earnest in their object. There ought, therefore, to be the greatest co-operation throughout the whole of the line. He could safely say, having looked at the plans and sections, and the estimates of Mr. Rastrick, and hav ing devoted some time to his able report, that that gen. ileman had furnished them with an estimate founded on honest principles. Those who embarked in the under taking need be under no apprehension of not receiving umple remuneration for their capital and trouble. He should be glad to render ull the assistance in his power in carrying out the undertaking, but he must first of all be persuud'-d that tho gentlemen who had projected it were in earnest, and felt the necessity of a railway. Christopher Stanton, Esq., Attleborough, stated tliut he had received a note from Sir Thomas Beevor, ex pressing his approbates of the undertaking. He had waited on Lord Albemarle, who had told him that his en gagements would prevent his attending the meeting, but that he was ready to assist the measure by all the means in his power, and his lordship hud distinctly authorised him Mr. Spanton to state to the meeting that be was perfectly satisfied the railway would prove advantageous lo his property and the country in general hear, near . A letter had also been put into bis hand by Mr. Cufnude, ol Yarmouth, from the mayor of that borough, approviog the line, and he could assure the meeting that through out the district iu which he resided Attleborough the landowners were unanimously in favour of the proposed railway hear, hear . William Clark, Esq. clerk of the peace of Thet ford begged leave to state that he had been requested to attend the meeting on the part of Thetford, and to express the concurrence oi the inhabitants of that borough in the measure, and their desire to see itcarried into full operation. He as tho agent of my Lord Ashburton could also state that us tbe line projected by Mr. Rastrick would not inter fere prejudicially with his lordship's estate, he Lord Ash burton would support it. The intended railway would certainly piss through Lord Ashburton's property us well as his own, but he Mr. Clark would cheerfully submit to anything that was for the good of Thetford and the country in general hear, hear . John Deck, Esq., of Bury, had also written to say that he highly approved of Mr. Rastrick's line, and that the inhabitants of Bury ware anxious to see the main trunk of the railway established, in order that a branch might be carried on to Bury, and that he was convinced th Marquess of Bristol, ever anxious to promote the interests of that borough, would give the undettaking his cordial support hear, hear . Mr. Drake stated that he should not have obtruded himself upon the notice of the meeting but for the obser vations of Mr. Harman, the chairman of the Brighton railway. Having, however, been in communication with several of the noblemen and gentlemen whose names had been mentioned in the announcement of tho meeting to be held in Norwich, and holding letters from Lord Sondes and others of those parties, containing assurances that they were not pledged to any particular line, he felt it due to the meeting, and particularly to those London capitalists who had honoured the meeting with their sanction and presence, to assure them that the requisitionists of the Norwich meeting would ap proach tbe discussion of the subject unfettered, and quite prepared to adopt the most practicable and least expen sive line and, indeed, had they been aware of the great sacrifice in expense and labour which had been incurred in maturing and perfecting the able plans, sections, and report, which Mr. Rastrick had this day produced, he Mr. Drake felt assured that these gentlemen would not nave felt any such meeting necessary. Mr. Drake added that he was also entrusted with letters from influential inhabitauts of the important town of Lynn, expressing cordial co-operation in the objects of the meeting, and begging that the extension of the line to that densely populated and wealthy district might not be lost sight of which letters were handed to the chairman. The resolution was then put and carried. Mr. arnish proposed the fifth resolution That a committee be appointed to arrange the details of the company, and to carry out the views of the meeting, with power to add to their numbers Which was seconded by D. M'Lean, Esq., and carried unanimously. A. A. H. Beckwith, Esq., governor of the corporation of the court of guardians of the city of Norwich, then moved the fallowing vote of thanks to the chairman That the thanks uf this meeting are pre-eminently due to the chairman for his kindness in taking the chair, and his marked attention to the important business of the meeting and observed that one advantage that would attend the railway would be the employment of a vast number of poor persons, who were at present in a state of the most abject poverty. He had been informed by several manufacturers that the falling off in the staple trade of Norwich was mainly owing to the defect of com munication between Norwich and the metropolis, as com pared with the facility of communication between London and the northern counties. It was of vital importance to Norwich that the railway should be completed as soon as possible, and it would prove a great benefit not merely to commerce but to agriculture. R. Lloyd, Esq , sec ended the vote of thanks, which was carried amidst great applause. The Chairman returned thanks, and observed that he had felt great pleasure iu attending the meeting. As one of the representatives of the county, he considered it to he his bounden duty to do all he could to benefit it. and he thought ho could not benefit it more than by assisting in the accomplishment of that great measure they had met to carry out hear, hear . He thought be might now congratulate the county on the fair pros pect ol attaining that desirable object, and the county of Norfolk would no longer be the only county that was not blessed with the advantage of a railway commu nication. Great unanimity had prevailed at that meet ing, and he hoped it was an earnest ot the union and good feeling that would exist throughout. If they made a strong pull they must succeed, and it was his opinion, after due consideration, that Mr. Rastrick's line was the one that ought to be adopted, going as it did near Cambridge hear, hear . No agricultural county could possibly raise money enough for the purposes of a line of ihis nature, and therefore they must of course look to London and other places for the principal part of their funds. There was, however, only one way of inducing the monied interest to render assistance, and that was by taking shares themselves. Let every gentleman who wished to sec a railroad to Norwich and Yarmouth established, just calculate upon the advantage he himself would de-rive from it, say fairly what he would give to see it ac-co mp' i t hed, and then put down his namo for that amount of shares hear, hear . They would then very soon de rive assistance from capitalists hear, hear . In conclu sion he begged again to return his sincere thanks for the honour they had done him, und would be happy to meet any gentleman who could conveniently attend the meeting to be held next Thursday in Norwich. lo pursuance of the above resolutions a company was immediately formed, and shares to a large amount taken in the room. Rrdditch.-Another of those distressing acci dents, so often occurring from the improper use of fire-°° t P' aco here on Wednesday last. A grandson of Mr. Davis, of the Crown Inn, was in the act of shoot ing at a small bird, when the fowling piece a very old one buist, and fractured his skull in a shocking manner. he young man lies in a very precarious state, with but a faint hope of recovery.-Worcester Chronicle. THE CHARTISTS AT INVERNESS. FROM AS INVERNESS PAPER. Handbills were issued on Monday, announcing that Mr. Juliau Harney, from London, ex-member for Northumber land, to the quondam so called National Convention, would address the inhabitants of Inverness, showing the necessity for an inquiry into the condition of the working classes, at eight o'clock in the evening. Admis sion two pence, to defray expenses. The meeting was held in a room in Raining Stairs. Shortly after the time announced, Mr. Julian Harney, a young man, wrapped in a plaid, entered the room, and mounted on a tabic. Mr. Muclcnnan, watchmaker, was appointed chairman. Mr. Harney's speech consisted of the stale and hack-neyed topics which form the staple of Chartist harangues Ho represented the working classes as in a state border ing upon starvation. The hand-loom weavers of Cum berland had only sixpence per day. Mr. H. then said there was not an honest representative for Scotland. He stigmatised the clergy as robbers, eulogised the charter, and advised the working classes to inquire and think for themselves. Mr. Duncan Mackenzie, slater, asked Mr. Harney what he meant by asserting that there was not an honest representative for Scotland in Parliament cheers , Mr. Harney said that none of them supported the charter continued laughter . Mr. Rennie, solicitor, said that the Chartist agitators spoke of the distress of the working classes, yet they went about, wringing pence from their scanty earnings, to sup port themselves iu idleness. Mr. David Monro, merchant, then stood forward, and at some lenght exposed the utter fullacy and mis-state ments of the Chartist orator. With respect to the manu facturing labourer, although it was undeniable that dis tress prevailed in certain districts, it was merely local, and was caused chiefly by tho operation of the corn-iaws, which excluded aur goods from the foreign markets. Mr. Julian Harney and his coadjutors bad been most strenuous in opposing the repeal or modification of these laws. They affected to sympathise with what They called tho starving classes, and yet made use of every influence they possessed to defeat oil at tempts to obtaiu cheap food. This was what he would designate as the blackest compound of impudence and treachery. But, was this treacherous conduct without a motive? No! these men knew well that had this reiiel been afforded, their power to do mischief would have ceased, they could no longer have found a sufficient pre tence for fleecing tho labourer of his earnings, to support their baneful, yet to them gainful, craft of political agita tion-so much for their regard for the working classes I The remedy proposed by Mr. Harney would not euro the distress which does exist for if brought to the test of ex perience, as respects the conduct of those electors ol the particular class to which Mr. Harney wishes to extend the franchise, it would be found that their conduct in the use of that franchise had not generally been such as to warrant the experiment of extending it at present to any greater number of the body. As to the constituency of the Scottish burghs, although the circumstance of our having none of the old leaven of the pot-walloping sys tem amongst us, had enabled us to return almost alto gether a liberal representation, yet it is well known that it was amongst the poorer class of voters in these burghs that the full influence of our opponents was employed with most success. In England, the effects of this were still more apparent. There, the retention of the old cor rupt freemen has had the effect of swamping the inde pendent portion of the constituencies aud the con sequence has been that this liberal and reforming government has, as regards the English representation, been left in a minority. It is, therefore, plain that, before a stronger infusion of this class of voters can be safely admitted to the franchise, more knowledge must progress amongst them. Let them acquire this, and habits of providence and order, and then such a change may be proper and safe. Mr. Harney deprecated war and bloodshed j yet he himself had ad vised the ignorant labourers of England to provide them selves with pikes and pistols, and to use them against un offending men, for the enforcement of abstract rights. He had been the coadjutor of the infatuated Frost and his treasonable associates, who, at Newport, led on the deluded labourers to be butchered. Many a widow and orphan had to lament that husbands and fathers had been led, some to death and many to gaol, by this man and his co-conspirators. Did not Mr. Harney him self, at a mceiing held before going to the conven tion, say, that he would not return till he got the charter the law of tho land, or his plaid dyed in his heart's blood! Were these the words of truth and soberness, or were they not rather like the ravings of a maniac. Mr. Harney would find little sympathy with his views among the Scottish labourers they were men of a far superior class to the ignorant and besotted pea sants and coal-miners of Northumberland, among whom his influence lay. The Scottish labourer was famed over the civilised world for habits of order, industry, and honesty he ranked high, if not highest, in the scale of intelligence. Such men would net allow themselves to be misled by social incendiaries like Mr. Harney the enemies and rcvileri of all that has hitherto been held sacred among men. Mr. Monroe then said, that they should not conclude without coming to some practical result, and he, therefore, proposed the following reso lution - That the Chartist leaders, having advocated riot and disorder, and incited the working classes to trea son and rebellion, have thereby proved themselves to be the enemies of that and every other class of society, and have mainly contributed to put a stop to the gradual pro gress of sale and rational reform. Mr. Rennie, solicitor, said he had much pleasure in seconding the motion great confusion Thereafter a running fire was kept up by question and answer, shout, and laughter. At one time we were afraid of an open battle. Mr. Harney having attempted to misrepresent a certain statement, an individual present styled him a convicted liar, upon which Mr. Harney rejoined ou are a d-d liar. After some confusion, Henry Bubrei., an operative mason from the south, proposed a counter motion to the effect that the meeting approve of Mr. Harney's princi ples, and have confidence in him. George Bain seconded this amendment, amidst cries of Well dono, Geordy. It was proposed by the chair man that the vote should be taken by the parties going to opposite sides ef the room. It was then evident that the motion was carried by a large majority. Another scene of confusion having ensued, the police-officers entered, and the orderly portion of those present withdrew. It is impossible to convey an adequate idea of the meeting, but our readers may have some conception of it from the above report. It is but right to say that the chairman behaved with great propriety. Next morn ing Mr. Julian Harney left town to proceed to Forres. THE WEATHER-THE PARKS. The weather since Wednesday evening has undergone manv changes. At six o'clock the thermometer stood at 30 degrees, two degrees below freezing point but by seven o'clock a light sleet began falling, and about nine o'clock a heavy fall of rain, snow, and sleet mingled toge ther commenced, accompanied with a strong westerly wind, wtiich continued till an early hour yesterday morn ing. From nine o'clock until a late hour the streets of the metropolis, and more particularly the roads round town, were rendered most dangerous by the rain freezing immediately on its reaching the earth, which made the pathways like a sheet of ice. About midnight, however, the thermometer having reached 89 degrees, a rapid thaw commenced, and at six o'clock yesterday the mercury stood at 40 degrees, the rain still continuing. Soon after eight o'clock theclouds broke and eventually cleared away, and during the remainder of the day the sun shone forth brilliantly. At noon the thermometer stood as high as 46 degrees, but towards the afternoon the wind shifted to the north-west, and as the evening advanced it again began te freeze, tbe thermometer having, at six o'clock, fellcn down to freezing point. The Sirpentine.-The ice much under water, and, towaids the middle of the day, very dangerous. At twelve o'clock most of the icemen were withdrawn, yet numerous persons still ventured to skate. No accident occurred. Kensington Gardens On the Round Pond there was a very fair attendance of skaters, the ice, notwith standing the thaw, being secure. There were not so many on the Long Water, and no accidents occurred. St. James's Park-The ice was very unsafe, and no persons ventured upon it. Regent's Park.-The ice very slippery and dangerous. There was, however, a numerous attendance of skaters, amongst whom were the Duke of Brunswick, and his secretary, and several members of the Skating Club. No accidents occurred. The River -Thera was a general break-up of the ice on the river, and the navigation of the shipping, steamers and craft received very little interruption, and a number of vessels of every description arrived and departed in the course of the day. Several coasters and colliers which were kept out of the pool by the ice, also came up the afternoon by the tide, which brought up a consi-The CATASTROPHE at FRANU S-STREET CHA PEL-CORONER'S INQUESTS. FROM THR FREEMAN' JOURNAL. . Yesterday an inquest was held at tli Coomb Hospital, belore James M'Carthy, E q., ons ol the county coroners touching the death of Gillies Claxton, the wile of a shoe maker livmg at New-otreet, and one of there who had been unlortonately killed on the 1 morning of Christmas Day, at the above house of worship. The first witness examined waa John Brady, a lubonrer, who deposed as fol lows -I live at 27, Bride-street. I was not in Francis-streetcbipel on Christman morning. I saw that straight-edged piece of deal board, now produced in the chapel-yard, where they kept the Umber and all the scantling materials. I did not see that straight edge since the week belore Christmas. It was myself broke it that week as it is now. It was in a heap of sticks or wood of the same kind which I was removing. It fell ont ef the parcel. I did not mind it at tho time, but trod on and broke it across, hut not allcgelher it was cracked and partly hanging asunder I threw it back and left it standing op amongst tbe lumber, After I had cracked it, and about the middle of the week before Curistinas Day,the short fragments of it were on the scaffolding of the chapel in ass with a stene mason. I knaw notbinir about tbe longer portion of It. I never saw it after it bad been broken in the yard until now. I was sweeping to the left of the large door leading into the chapel on Tuesday last. I then saw no timber, but two pieces ef architrave moulding, which had been ripped off the dour each piece wss frum seven to eight feet long. I did not see them since. In sweeping out the chapel on the day I mentioned I saw no other piece ol wood whatever. None such could have been in Ihe place without my noticing it. I left the pieces of the architrave behind me inside. That, as I have already said, was near theentrauce door leading in from Francis-street. Christopher BollBrd examined I live at 28, Plunket-street. I am a shoemaker. Was in tbe chapel on Christinas morning. I entered it at about a quarter to six o'clock. Remained there quiet, but crushed, for about twenty mi nutes. Mass wss then celebrating. Just as lbs first gospel was over a man made an alarm. lie was close to my shoulder. I never saw him before, but I think I would know him again if I saw bim. He was crushing and tulking at the time. He made no alarm or noise till I heard a crack, seem ingly of a slick disjointing. It was ever in a corner near a side door. In about a second there wus another crack that seemed loader than the first. Said man then roared oat that the gallery was falling. He desired the congrega tion to look np, that it was splitting. He then rushed forward as stroDgly as he coold to get ont at the door. The people began to rush that moment to try and get out also. All then joined cryiog cat the same, that the gallery was laJling. f held the man for a time by the skirt of the coat, more to aid me in getting oat than to de tain him, but in the struggle of getting out I was separated from him. He got out. He wore a brown surtout coat. I wus under the gallery where the ularm was made. We got out at a side door fronting Francis-street. All that I saw went ont at tbe same door. The noise or crack I supposed wus about three yards from me. The place was so crowded before I beard the noise that J was sometimes raised off my teet tor a minute or so. 1 beard the stranger sometimes say he was so desperately crashed that it he was outside be would wait for ihe next mass. Before the noise he was quite uneasy, and went from one side to tbe other, getting nearer to the door. First witness Tjat was nst on tbe same side of the chapel where I left the pieces of wood. Ballard The man who gave tho alarm was shout five feet ton inches in height. He was a thin person. I could not say of what complexion. Ho appeared to u . a countryman ot shunt 25 or 2B years old. I am q site sure that tbe noise of the crack camo from the ground-floor, not from the gal lery. He did not make much aiarm on tbe first crack, but on the second be screamed out. When I got out I saw several persons down. There was sufficient room going iu from Franeis-street to the chapel. That morning you could scarcely get in without almost fighting yonr way through, the crowds were so great. There was sufficient passage to the chapel from Franeis-street, if there was proper light, for twelve or fourteen person to move hick and forwards at the same time. I only saw one boy dead. He was lying outside on a large stone upon which he had been raised. I returned into the chapel immediately utter. Tbe first noise was like that of the cracking of a light stick. The second noise seemed louder than the first, as if a stick were disjointing. There was about a second between the two cracks. The lath or straight edge now produced I had in my hand that morning. A woman gave it to me out of the corner where I heard the noise. I do not know the woman, but she taid to me, here is the stick, Mr. Ballard, which was broken this morning, and which caused all the alarm and confusion. I speak in reference to the long piece. 1 did not see the short piece, bat observed where part of the long one had been broken off. I left the stick alter against one of the porches in the middle of tbe chapel. 1 am per fectly convinced I eould eweur that the noise proceeded from the ground-floor over in the corner. I was standing in tbe lower end ol the chapel, close to the wail, the hoy who waa killed being only between me and it. An inspector of police stated that he found a similar straightedge, but unbroken, in a place used by tbe workmen in the yard. Rose Bollard examined I am the wife of the last wit ness. I went at tbe same time with my husband to Francis-street Chapel, on Christmas morning, i was at the left hand side of the chapel going in from Plunket street, under the gallery. I observed a lath or stick like that now shown uader the gallery, np in the corner. I was close to it. I did not see it broken, but 1 heard tho crack. I think it was from that stick the noise proceeded. Tnere were two men crashed by the crowd up against it, and it was broken in consequence. This was before any noise took place. 1 said What is that? a woman suid to me never mind-it is that piece of stick that was broken. It was not at that corner tbe alarm was raised, it was at the other tide, at the Franeis-street door. Oae of the men I mention was leaning against tbe stick with hie shoulders. These men were in the same place when 1 first entered the chapel. It was the crowd thst, as these two men were standing at tbe spot, pushed them ugaiust the stick. All tbe time I was there tbe men were close lo it. When I heard the first ery out they were there. They did not go away until after the first alarm bud been given. It was not either of them that gave the al irm. I did not go from where I was, as a man bid me not to stir that there wus no fear of me. One voice first said that the gallery was falling, and thou all joined in the cry. I heard tbe two cracks. 1 do not think that bath came from the same quarter. Tho first seemed to proceed from tbe stick near which I was standing. I think that tbe second crack came from towards Fraocis-stroet door, but I was so frightened I could not tell exactly whore it came from. 1 saw a man bolding up that piece ef a board in his hand I think,and telling the people not to be alarmed there was no fear that it was that piece ol wood tbit hull been broken. I did not know that man who held it up. He was standing under the gallery. The chapel wus pretty clear of people at tbe time. John Woolley was examined, but his testimony was of no importance whatever. Patrick K -lly examined I live at 47, Bride-street. On Tuesday evening I was sent for to set some bricks and a flag in the chapel. 1 sent out a man for a straight-.-dgo. He bronght me the piece of wood the iurgest portion of tbe straight edge now produced. The short pieee I thick is the same I hud used before on the tower ot the chapel. Rose Bollard Tbe stick I saw in the corner reached higher than the men's shoulders That should have been longer than both the pieces of wood produced put together. Edward Sherwoud examined 1 am clerk of Francis-street Chapel. I was very particular on Christmas eve to have tbe chapel cleared of everything that might at all in convenience the people. In order to give as much light as possible, 1 bud three , ge lamps lighted oue of them bad three burners. I was in the sanctuary, and,on hearing the noise, I thought it wus one ot thi broken, hut I found it wss not. I am LA W NOTICES-Thi Day. bankruptcy court, basinghall-street, Before Mr. Commlislonir Fux.iANqiri. William Collls, ofllunmow, draper, al twelve laet examination-Thomas William Horder, of Fenchurdi-street, chemlit, at ona i examination-Charles Hobert Harrli, ef Percy-atreet, carver ana glider, at two last examination. Before Mr, Commtuloner Mkkivalb. John Stone Smalltield, of Newgate xtrett, bookieller, at twelve choice of assignees. Before Mr. Commissioner Fans. Charles Baker Harmau, of Stoney Stratford, innkeeper, t twelve last examination-Wild and Williams, of Walworth, linen-draperi, at one last examination. Before Mr. Commissioner Evans. Phillips and Phillips, of Regeul-itreel, lamp manufacturers, I eleven laatexamination. Before Mr. Commissioner Holroyd. George Wilkin, of Frith-street, tailor, at eleven last examination, SECONDARIES' COURT, BASINGHALL-8TREET-At twelve. Howard v Brown-Larkin and Another v 8ewell-Emmott v Sewell-Ratcllffe, Whyman, and another ? Jackson-Sharland ana another v Plggott. INSOLVENT DEBTORS' COURT, PORTUGAL.STREET, Sit at ten. Seventeen Ball Cases. . Adjourned Hbaring.-James Thomas Welsh-Joseph John Fawcett. Original Unopposrd.-William Smith-Jonathan Collingburn -Charles Hunt-Robert Nesbit Kell-Richard Lock. Original Unopposed.-George Holland-Abrahain Honnor-Charles Paris Poole. SHERIFFS' COURT-Thursday. Before Mr. Ifnrt.v.Sberiff Burcbell ami a Common Jury. Stanley v. zibukiewicz. I'i this case Mr. Miller appeared as counsel for the plain tiff, a printer, residing iu Craren-boildlnga, Strand aod Mr. Innis attended on behall of tbe R v. J r. Zieukicwicz, who is a Roman Catholic clergyraan aud a Polish refugee. The aetion was brought to recaver the sum of £19 odd for printing several nnuibtrs of a work culled The Hist-try of Poland, aud the defendant had paid £2 Is. into court, and pleaded payment as to the remainder. Mr. Miller stated thut the defendant determined in tbe be-ciimiug of this year to write a history of P-tlaDd, which he employed the plaintiff to priot, and which was to be brought out in weekly numbers at three-pence each, or in monthly shilling parts. The defendant pro posed bringiog out the work by means of shares, and in the list of shareholders that he hud printed were the names of the Itev. Dr. T. Griffith, Bishop of London district his Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, M. Guizot, the Hon. Mr. Stafford Jerningknm, John Wrieht, Esq , the banker, kc. The printing of the numbers, it was agreed, should be done for £2 Ins. per week, and tba plaintiff was to take two shares ot £1 each in the work. After the publication, how-ever, of the first monthly part, the plaintitf found that he could not go on upon these terms, and it was then arranged between bin. and Dr. Zieukicwicz, that lie should be puid in lull for the future priming, although bis name should con tinue among t'ue list ol shareholders, lest the withdrawal ot it should have au unfavourable tendency in the di-posal ot the work. The plaintiff likewise printed some fancy wrappers for the defendant, aud had made some consi derable correc tions in the history, at tbe doctor's request, which items amounted in the whole to tbe sum claimed. A composito., named Ball, Is the plaijtitf's employ, proved the work done, and said that be hear! the defendant promise, cn his con-cience, to pav the plaintiff's demand in as short a time as passible. Dr. Zieuklewicz complained of not being able to get in the money for the Hist part of the History ol Poland until the second part wan iu the hands of the book-oiler.. Cross-examined The receipts produced bereth plaintiff's signature 'attached to them io his own handwriting. Other witnesses proved admissions ot tha ' .-Cendant of his liability. Mr. Innis put in tbe receipts identified by Ball, which acknowledged cash payments to the einsont of £9 19s., shares £13 12s., and 10s. tor advertisements, which, he con tended, more than covered the plaintiff's demand. The doctor, however, valued his reputation more than bis life, and as be was excessively tenacious ot his character he Mr. Innis had paid £2 la. into court, in ths hope that it would put an end ta tbe litigation, although the plaintiff was not entitled to a fartbiog. He should prove thut the defendant received a stipend of only £26 per year from tbe Polish Association, and that be had been no.iced, by ihe solicitations of several friends and the plaintiff, to write a bi.tory of Poland, the expenses being undertaken to be paid by those who advised him to commence the work. He Mr. Innis held in his hand some rules und regulations for tbs guidance of the shareholders, and the plaintiff'had sub scribed bis name te it but unless he Mr. Innis received permission to pit it in, he could not do so, as tho defendant wus not in circumstances to have it stamped. The Uu ier-Sherift'observed, that the attorney knew as wsll as himself that he had no power to receive anything that wus aot strictly evidence. Joseph Ostrowski, the editor nf the History of Poland, ud Mr. John Charles Fitzgerald, who described bimselt as a teacher of languages and occasional contributor ts the press, were examined for he defence, hut in the absence of the rules, or deed of partnership, as it was called, of the shareholders, th ir testimony was unavailing. Mr. Innis sabmiited that the plaintiff, as one of tfau partners iu the work, coaid not sue his co-partner, tbe defendant. The Under-Sheriff said that the defendant hud given no evidence of a partnership having existed. Dr. Hionkiewlcz begged the conrt would let him say a few words. The Under-Sheriff said he hod no power to do so he must appeal to the plaintiff's counsel. Mr. Miller observed that he merely appeared as the mouthpiece of his client, aad he could not yield a privilege to tbedsfendunt which would not under any circumstances be conceded to a native of this couutry, and which would in all probability lead lo a contradiction of the witnesses' statements that had been made under the solemn obligations of au oath. The Under-Sheriff' having eutnmed op, the jury without hesitation returned a verdict for the plaintiff- Damages £15 17s. In answer ta th eampl.iflt.th. defendant . rea son why he refused to part with . P , ., Don b s ren e canse the complainants were in his iaced amonating to in guineas. The cmmphiinanta had phicea their model in bis room for several ,i. nbS?c he tioos appeared to be made for the ' Vhimsel from conceived It was proper tottkesteiH toseenreb inrom The complainants wished te esnj off ft loss. of the model, and to leave nothing . npriuit block-a proceeding which of course he won dalav had The complainant denied tbet any UDnec f. 8 ft i. u j 8B ,on to taken place on their part in giving the t hey had tbi very interesting exhibition. The fact J rcMon to believe the defendant wa in league wit parties to exhibit the real cheese, anil this was tne eon why he would not part with the model. Mr. Millerdeuied thoaocaracj of this gtatemen Mr. Long remarked that the rage for sight-seeing in Ball was proverbial bat, with all our national iu such matters, he doubted whether public uuiiibility c be sufficiently excited to make the exhibition of tue model of a cheese a profitable matter. Had it been t cheese itself there might have been something to say io 1 vour of the proceeding. F • It was ultimately arrranged that on payment or nve guineas, the complaints might be at liberty to remove their model. . Out-door Rblikp.-Four young girls were chargeu with annoying the overseers oi St. iiles's, Bloomsoury. Mr. Dix, the relieving officer, said the defendant had been ofl'ered work, but they refused to do it, and as they veere exceedingly annoying to the ovt-rseers they had beea brought here to answer for their miscouduct. The girls, who agreed in tbe earn story, said they were willing to work it any emplo raent wus offered them ut which they could procare subsistance. Tbo parish had seat them to pick oakum, and this wus the only out door reliet they would give. ... Mr. Dix said, if the girls chose to be industrious, tley could earn eight-pence aud evvo us much as a shilling day at the work. , , The girls declared this was totally impossible. They baa tried the work, bat the most they couid earn was a p nuy or three baltpi-nce. Jf the parish would oblige thuin to continue to pick oakum they would be obliged to sp jrid tbe few pence they might earn in food, aad walk the streets during the night. , ... Mr. Dix said he would add food to their wages, it they ■Ju to 'J r t to 38 to looodto loo looo to 10 POLICE INTELLIGENCE-Th u rsda y . MANSION-HOUSE. Several complain!. Lave been lately ma-le to the Lord Mayor, relative to the want of water'in Southfield in the cattle pens. Communications have been received at the Mansion-house by letter and personally on the subject. They have stated tbat when cattle arrive at Smitbffeld after a long Journey, there is not a drop ot water to be loood tor them althouijh they evidently Shffer from extreme thirst, and it has been suggested tbat troughs be placed in different parts of tbe market, with water for the use ef the poor uoiinals. The Lord Mayor and Alderman Wilson referred the matter of complaint to Deputy flicks, the chairmnn of the markets' committee, whose improvements in Smitbffeld have entitled him totha thanks of the community. In all proba bility that iiOHtleman would immediately see tte evil, if It existed, remedied. A gentleman, who stated that he waited upon his lordship at tha request of the drovers, to represent ihe fact ttat the cattle which travelled up to market were in such a deplor able condition from thirst that tbe blood oozed out of their hoofs, said that io lact the whole animal economy was ef fectually destroyed by the want of water. A collecting clerk In the house ef Messrs. Woedbridize, brewer , waa on Wednesday eharged before Alderman Wil son wi-h having been so drunk on the preceding right as to drive bis horse und gig furiously on the wrong side ot the road, to intrude violently upon tbe quietude ofa cab staud, and at length to make choice of the pavement for tryieg tbe pluck of a very spirited horse. . _ George Want, a bricklayer, stated that od Tuesday night tbe glas.-es that had he saw the horse or cart, or gig, driving furiously along the im quite sure that I j Minories, upon tho wroDg side of the street. There were left no moulding or any stick at all loose in the chapel at j two gentlemen iu the gig' both of them appeared to be very eleven o'clock the night before. I was n.'ar the corner of drunk. The horse, in passing a cab staud, twirled about a the chapel of which the woman spoke, bat I saw no stick cub, and then bore down upou a man who was dragging a there. It might possibly have been there without my seeing truck, but who luckily, upon being called to, tnrned short it. I heard but one crack when th alarm was given. .1 j out ot the way. The horse then took the pavement, aod heard fire I cried eut, and no second crack. That which ! began to cut capers there but a policeman, to whom wit-I did hear must have bean very load, as it reached from tbe i ness represen ed tbat if he did not iDterferemischieimust be lower extremity of the building to where I was kneeling in j done, Si iz -d the reins and prevented it. the sanctuary, being tbe full extent of the ebapei, from seventy to eighty teet long. 1 asked tbe girl who cleaned out the chapel the night before, whether she had seen any sticks or wood in the place, aud sbe told me she bad not. Where 1 saw the people crushed aud falling was at the loot of the steps outside, as if they had been descending them. This dosed tbe examination of the witnesses. The Coroner, in ebargiog the jury, said that at all events it did not appear from the evidence that there wus anything Policeman No. 511, described the condition ef the gen tleman who drove, or pretended to drive, as very closely bordering upon the last stage el drunkenness. Witness took care of tbe cash box which was in the gig, and which contained, as be understood, a considerable sum of money, and was spoken to alterwards very uncourtrously by one ot the gentlemen of tbe establishment, on account ol his in terference, it being tbe opinion ol these at tbe brewery, tbat it tbe deleudant bad been let ah-ne he would have driven to ot a religious or party spirit connected with the deplorable j his destination safely. The alarm to him appeared rather to have A gentleman from the brewhoase said that the defendant derablc quantity of drifting ice, which appeared very soft, and offered very little obstruction to the pasasge of ships and barges. At low water there were vast masses of ice icebergs on both shores, a good deal of which was taken up by tbe flowing tide, aud dissolved. The change of tho weather happened very opportunely, for the na vigation of the river was almost entirely suspended on Tuesday. i . -We regret to observe that the murrain has been progressing northward with rapid strides and it has during the last week developed itself extensively in the Highland counties, one gentleman in the neighbourhood of Tain having had 146 head of cattle affected by it in rapid succession. It has also extended itself over the western counties, and is far from being unknown in our own immediate neighbourhood. Here, however, the type is unusually tnind.and we hate not heard of a single beast that has died, wherein the cause ef death may not be at tributed to some previous malady which predisposed the animal to murrain, and did not leave it strength to resist the inflammation which accompanies it. The disease io this quarter has not, on an average of many cases, affected the animal more than four days, and then it takes readily to such soft food as can be used from the tender state of the mouth and tongue. When once quit of the disease, we arc not aware that it returns again to th same ani mal. in very few cases in Scotland have we heard of pigs or sheep being affected by the malady but we ob serve that io Yorkshire the disease has extended to aii kinds of stock, including horses, sheep, pigs, and even the poor shepherds' dogs. Fortunately, we cannot yet complain of any such extended infection in Scotland, where hitherto the dread of the disease has boen wersc than the reality. Veterinary authorities are not yet agreed as to whether the disease is propagated by contagion or atmospheric in-lluence,-Glatyow Mail. occurrence been excited own nefarions purposes. Several of tbe nrors expressed themselves as entertain j ing a similar opinion. Alter a tew minutes' consultation, the jary returned the following verdict We find that the said Gillies Claxton ! was killed at I'rancis-street chapel on ihe morning of the 25th instant, or Cbristmas-day, by u number of persons j rushing ont of said chapel, and crushing her person and! that this rushing, and tbe consequences tbat fallowed, were ! caused by a person or persons unknown, but whether through excitement or alaim from nervousness, owiog to bis or tbeir situation at tbe time,or from a teiouious inleot,we cannot say The Coroner then adjourned to the coonty ol Meath hos pital, and there proceeded to hold inquests touching tbe death of James Colligun, and of Eleanor Ssvage, who had come byrt.neir deaths at the same time and place, aud under the like melancholy circumstances. The evidence wus similar to that adduced in tbe preced ing case, und a verdict substantially tbe same as the fore going was looud by tbe jary In eacb case. Catherine Smith, tho poor womua who bad sustai ed la-jury of tbs brain, continues in tbe hospital in an tteriy hopeless state. Tbe other patien s are going on o fiby Fatal Accident.-Between teu and eleven o'clock yesterday morning the following dreadful acci dent occurred -A gentleman named Bartlett, whore-sided at Coombe-lodge, Regent's-park, left his residence in a gig, accompanied by his sister-in-law, a lady ol the name of Richards. On emerging from the gate leading into the main road through the park, a man who was passiog at the time, with a basket of live ducks on his head, in endeavouring to uvoid the horse aod gig, stum-bled, and threw the basket down before the horse. It is supposed that the noise and fluttering of the ducks fright ened the animal, which suddenly reared upon his hind legs. Miss Richards was thrown backwards out of the gig, and her spine was severely injured, und the whole of her front teeth and gums forced out. Mr. Bartlett was thrown partly over the back of the gig, and in his tfforts to recover'himself he fell over the side of the vehicle, with bit head between the spokes of the wheel at the moment that the norxe started off. The groom, who the instant More baa left the horse's head, attempted to restrain the animal, but before he could accomplish this t.ie head of the unfortunate gentleman had become entangled in the wheel, and when the horse was stopped Mr. Bartlett was found to be lifeless, Ids neck having been broken. Rustic Credulity.-a few days ago an honest farmer's wife, in the neighbourhood of Biggar was waited upon by a gipsy fortune-teller or spaewife, who offered to lift the curtain of futurity, and give her a peep of what was in store for her for a mere trifle. Aft r showing off some of her cantrips, and making the unsuspecting house wife believe that she, like Glendower, had the gift of calling spirits from the vasty deep, she prevailed upon her to part with a pound note, in the conviction that in u quarter of an hour by her auld timmer clock, a braw horned cow would come routin' to the door! This being done, the second part of the drama opened with exit spaewife, aad Mis. Look-for-Crumbie solus. It is hardly necessary to state that the cow did not make her appearance to add to thedramtia persona.-Scottman. by some pickpockets merely to serve tbeir bail been in the employment of Messrs. Woodbridge and Co. tor six years, und a mare steady man conld not be found. Nrver belure had there been a shadow of complaint against him, anJ he was highly esteemed. He is, said the gen-tleuiun, four days in tho week in the habit of bringing in sums oi money, sometimes £300 or £400 at a time, end if be is exposed to this sortol interruption aud annoyance, the inconvenience will be very great. Alderman Wilson Aud ss yon would have tha police allow him to gallop over people und smash every thing be fore him to suit his convenience. The gentleman said he understood that the horse, which was u very spirited one, became rather unmanageable tor a short time, but tbat no deubt it tbe policeman had not inter fered all would have been right. A person, who staled tbat he was In the gig at the time with the deleudant, said he did not perceive that tbe delendant was drui k and the gig was not going fast ut all. The policeman and other witnesses declared that tbe gig was going at tbe rate of eleven or twelve miles an hour, and that the person who sat with the delendant was most decidediy drunk arid wholly incapable of rendering assist ance. The policeman slated, tbat il it,hud not been tor tbe property in tbe cash-box hu would have taken the gig to tbe green-y .rJ.J There were insinuations thrown eut against him at the brewery as to the security of the praperty,aud he considered hiinsvlt very ill used. Alderman Wilson was also of pinion that the policeman was extremely ill used. What would Mr. Woodbridge say if the horse bad dashed the gig to pieces and the cash-box had been lost, not te mention otber mischief that might have been dene if the policeman had not interfered? In his Al deruian Wilson's opinion the establishment were much in debted te the policeman for his activity aud care, and, in stead ofa reproach, the man deserved some recompense. Tbe gentleman said tbat be should mention the alderman's suggestion to the honsi# Alderman Wilson trusted that the defendant would drink less inbiitravclsinfatnre,amt lined him 10s.for being drunk. The alderman subsequently observed that he knew it was very bard for persens employed as tbe delendant was to go through tbeir laborious day's business without showing that they bud very bigb opinions of the urtiele they vended by submitting tothesivere tint of tasting deeply, but be really thought it would be prudent iu tbeir employers ta give them a bint not to raise tbeir elbows so very often even in •• boxing time. Tbe poiheiaan who acted upou this occasion was stated hy bis inspector to be u very steady aud trustworthy man, and Alderman Wilson remembered the man iu bis mayoralty to bear and to des.-rve that character. MARLBO ROUGH-STREET. The Queen's Cheese.-Mr. Miller, of tbe Egyptiam-hall, wus suxiiBonrd belore Mr. Long by two persons named 1'sge und Cotton, for detaining ihe uicdet of a cheese in tended as a present to iivr Majesty. It may be nveestary, in elucidation of tbe natnre of the case, to mention that some loyal person have clubbed a day's milk of theircows for tbe purpose of manufacturing an enormous cbeeie, to be presented to her Majesty. The complainants stated they had aiad a model ot this cheese, und with the view ol exhibiting it they contracted with the defendant for the use of a room in tbe Egyptian-ball, at so much per monih. The defendant, however, had kept tbe roam locked, and as he refused to part with the key, they were nnable to open the exhibition to the public. When applied to, tbe deieodant refused to give up the model. could not pick oakum sufficient to keep them Mr. Loog told the girl they must do the best they could at the work ofl'ered them by tbe paritli and then discharged liters. THAMES-POLICE. A big Irishman, named Hugh Murray, was charged with kicking Denhis Murphy, bis countryman. The par ties are ballast getters, and Murphy has lately join, d a tem perance society, which gave ofLnce to the prisoner, who is very partial to whiskey undiluted. On Saturday last after drinking more than a proper allowance ol bis favourite liquor, he met Dennis Murpuy at Ratcliff cross, and be gan ta abuse him, telling him that after drinkiag mere gin and beer than any otber Irishman iu England, be left eff, because he could Lot drink any more, and joined a temperance society. After this abuse bad continued for some time, Murray made isms fonl allu ions to a bad leg, with which Murphy had been long afflicted, and kicked him violently on the leg which was bandaged. H then followed bim, and pat bis fist before his face, and swore tbat hut for the laws he wonld smash him, und make biin pat bi bead in bis mouth, as St, Patrick is reported to have done when ha cro-sed the Lift-y, Murray, in defence, said ho bad done nothing at all, and that Murpby was envious of bim because be drank whiskey , and refused to joiu the Temperance Society. Murphy called him many ugly names, which were not fit ta be men tinned,and then struck bim on the check. Murpby swore that he sever struck Murray at ull, add called two witnesses, who confirmed bis statement. Murray here put his hand to the side of bis bead, above his right ear, and said he received a blow there, which took the seHses out of him for three quarters of an hour. Mr. Broderip You have a very bad memory. Five minutes ago you put your hand us your left cheek, and said you bad been struck there and now you put your Laud on tbe top of your huad. 1 don't believe be has struck you at all, and I have no doubt whatever you kicked him on his bail leg, whioh was a very cowardly and brutal act. You will pay a fine of 4Us. and tbe costs lor this assault, or go to prisoo for one month. MARYLEBOXE. Robbery at tub Marchioness Cornwallis's.-A middie-4ged woman, who gave her name Ann Brown, was placed at the bar,charged with having stolen a vaiuuble shawl and a bible from the residence of the Marchioness Cornwallis, No. 12, Park-cresceor, Regent's-park. Edward Suffell, in the employ of Mr. Daniels, a pawo-broker, living within a few yards of this court, deposed that the prisoner entered the shop und off ered for pledge a shawl, upon which she asked tcH shilling-. Witness, perceiving that the article was a valuable one, examined it closely, ami found marked upon it ths name Lady Elizabeth Cornwal lis. He thea questioned her as to how h became pos sessed ot it, when she stated that it had been given to her by a member ot the Cornwallis family, all of whom were then oat of town and in reply to further inquiries, she said that she resided at 79, East-street, and was a respectable woman. He accompanied her to tbe said bouse, when, find ing tbat she was not the occupier of any apartments tuereiu, he gave her into custody. She repeatedly begged of him not to do so, and uilcged that such a proceeding would atteriy rnia her. Mr. Rawlioson What is the value of the shawl?-Wit ness F.orn £8 to £10. Sarah Wade, bous-maid to tbe Marchioness Cornwallis, stated that the family quitted London iu October last, and that the prisoner was engaged to remain behind with her wimrss , and assist her, for which site was paid at the rat of 11s. 61. per week. On tbe previous night she had 10s. given her, acd went out for tho purpose of muki g some purchases, bat sbe did aot return, and wituets ascertaiued soon alter her departure that a drawer up stairs, b.longing to one of the young ludiee, hud beea forced open. Harriet Moleswortb, the ladies' ruuid, deposed tbat the shawl produced had li eu placed in the drawer in question, und was tbe property of the Lady E.izsbetb Cornwallis. J.evett, 13 D, proved that tbe prisoner, when at the station-house, gave up a key. Ha repaired to the mar-cbioness's residence, and on examining a cupboard in the servants'hall, tbe uoor of which the suiJ key opened, he found in it a pocket-book, containing a number of pawn broker's duplicates, one of which was lor a bible pledged at Mr. Baylis's, Mortimer-street, Cavendish-sqaare. Toe bible from which the label indicating ta whom it be longed had been torn, and which was discovered with tbe duplicates in tbe prisonei's pocket-book was brought for ward by Mr. Baylis's shopman, and sworn to by tbe lady's maid, as belonging to Lady Elizabeth Cornwallis. Tbe prisoner, who had nothing more to say than tbat she never forced a Jock in her litis, was tally committed to New gate fur trial. CORONERS' INQUESTS. Yesterday evening an inquest was held at Guy's Hospital, belore Mr. l'ayoe, coroner, on the body oi Sarah Terry, the -ears of age, who died in the above hospital. The jury huving viewed the body, which presented a shocking spectacle, Mary Ann Terry, the mother of the deceased,deposed that on MoD'lay evening last, about five o'clock, she went down stairs into the parlour, leaving the deceased und two other childr u,a boy of three years ol age and a girl seven years old. She bad scarcely got down stairs when xhe heard vio lent screams, and on going up stairs found the deceased ea-veloped in flames. She took up n rag and extioguisbrd them. Witness said sbe understood that the eldest girl had taken the lighled candle out ol the candlestick, and put it to the bettuin of the frock of the deceased, it is supposed with a view of frightening the child. The child's lather, who was examined, but who knew noihiog ol the transaction, wus cautioned by the coroner to keep a strict watch on the child who had apparently been the cause of the accident. The jury then returned a verdict of Accidental death. By the Coroner Nothing was tv bacco boxes, and his sapper was duty was to watch the craft at Ba i r foand his face was towards the and his staff was partly ont of 1 , signs sf violence. Thomas Nichoils, son of the I r. pos d that he raw the deceased turday morning, when he appea '. an talking to Mr. Winter's private Vd . foggy during tIt 'Bigot and laornu ling for watching every loaded b v . Barclay's whnri. Witness tboug i . over ihe barges in ex cation ef hi Verdict- Found drowned SPORTING INTEJ I TATTERSALL'S- V-. The attendance wm unuaually thin, v require no other return than is contaiBe j ., U offer. - DERBY. 4 lo l agst Mr. W. Scott'n lot ofl . s 14 t 0 - Lord Bruce's Rosalie c taken to d. 110 is to I - Mr. irevllle'a Pa a n on tasen to 15 to 1 - Lord Westminster's Marshal Sonlt t 20 ton 1 - Mr. Rawlinson's Coionation offers to lay j - Colonel Peel's Caineleon taken to I - Duke of Rutland's Sir Hans roffers to take Lord Stradbrake's lot taken Captain Gardnor'averpool from Ostend, Sarah Ann from l!m t Sultan front Altea, and Minerva from Lisbon. ENTERED OUTWARDS FOR LOADIN'O. The Allda for Ostend, Heiress for Gibraltar, Sussex for Bom ns, Countess of Dunmore for Sydney, and Adele for Calais. CLEARED OUTWARDS WITH CARGO. The City of Londonderry for Havre, Adele for Calais, MariaEila. bell for Schevenlng, Caroline for Calcutta, Dorothea for Mviiina. C LEARED OUTWARDS IN BA LLAST. The Medemblick for Medembllck. No. 22 iso. MAILS. Due. Dublin 3 . Waterford I . Drogheda 0 , Guernsey and Jersey... I , France i . Flai.derr. I Hamburg ...... ... 0 . . 1 Holland .••• Lisbon Malta ••.. Gibraltar.... West Indies . Leeward Island 1 Halifax -Arr Uu . v j .. i b . At the termination ef the above iiqaest an inqolry wa commenced by Mr. Payne relative to tbe death of Robert William Loader, aged twenty-five, one of the F re Brigade Establishment, attached to tbe Watliog-street alation, who came by bis death io csntequence ot the severe inj.ries he hud sustained hy the falling of a wall during the fire at Messrs. Goodbart aad Co.'s, sugar bakers, Rutclitfe-highway, on Saturday morning last. From tbe testimony of several of the fire brigade mei it appeared that the accident occurred by the falling ol a por tion ofa wall abont forty or fifty teet in height, which baried the uulortuuute deceased in its ruins up to the chest. The evidence ol the house-sergeon went to show that the deceased had sustained a compound fracture of both banes, of his right leg, a severe contusion of his left leg, aBd seve ral burns on his left leg and right arm. It wa9 deemed necessary, immediately alter bis admission to the hospital, to amputate the fractured leg, which wasdoen by Mr. Key, the surgeon. He Went on as favourably as coold be expected considering the injuries he had received, until yesterday im ruing, when he expired. The Coroner here said, that, as there was no evidence before the jury to show tbe cause of the fire, tbe Inquest mast be adjourned to ascertain it, if possible and, in the meantime, ordered a pott-mortem examination of the body, and tbe inquest was accordingly adjourned until Monday evening uexc. Mortality among the Convicts at Woolwich. -An epidemic has bren lor some time past raging among the convicts employed in the Royal Arsenal und govern ment dock-yard at Woolwich, und has in several instances terminated fatally. A circumstance occurred iu Woolwich on Tuesday last, whieh excited au extraordinary degrte of interest in the town and the neighbourhood, namely, the coroner lor the district, C. J. Carttar, Esq., holding an in quest en the bodies ol no less than seven convicts at one tune. The inquiry iu question took place at the Salutation public-house, opposite to the entrance to the Royal Arsenal. Tne jury after being swern proceeded with the coroner to view the bodien, which were Ijiug in the dead-house ol the Arsenal. The whole seven were lying side by side most of ihem were young men,aud tbe bodies were not at all emaciated. On the breast of ona was a recently drawn blister, be buviDg been for some time past labouring under a disease of the chest. The only evidence adduced be fore the jury was that of the medical practi tioners engaged to attend the convicts, Mr. Hope or New Charlton, aud Mr. Bu.-y, of Woolwich' who stated that their deaths arose train purely natural cause . Souieof them had been ill sevtral times befure and had been confined iu the hospital of tbe garrison. The ma jority were ufl-rted with an affection of the chest, accomna. nied by slight fever. r Iu answer to questions by the jury, the medical gentlemen said the deceased convicts bud not suffered from the effects ol the weather, us in the winter tLey were furnished with warm Guernsey froeks, at least those who were accustomed to wear flannel nor was there any lack of food. When the caimcta were 'll every attention was paid them, and wine when necessary wss supplied to them. Oue of the jury asked if there was any other evidence aiuiiable, but was answered in the negative, theconviets not being allowed to give any testimony on any occasion. A verdict of Death Irom fever waa then returned. Yesterday, Mr. Carter held arfinquest at the George, Bank-side, on the body ot Thomas Motberscli, aged 46, a private watchman,ut Baukside, who was touud drowned. William Poole 33 M division of police, deposed'that abont six o'clock on Saturday morning he saw tbe body of tbe de ceased in the mud off Bat-.kride, nearly opposite the Anchor paulic-bouse, when he, with another policeman named Henry Hart, having procured a ladder and a shatter, got down on the shore und picked np the body, whieh they de posited io the skittle-ground ot the G.orge pablic-honse. From the appearance of the body it seemed to bare been in the water several hours. It was low water at the time. Witno-son txaminiug his person rtcognised the deceased who was formerly a police-sergeant of the M divisioB, and' had been ub .ut three months in his present employment as private watchman. 3 EAST INDIA SHIPPING. • ARRIVAL . The Governor, from the Cape of Geod Hope, otf Crookhavfr., bound to Cork, aalled the 18th Oct. Clyde, from Bauv.a. F -mouth, Mild Itith August, St. Helena 22d Oct. Alexander Jcfci ■tone, from Bengal, In the Channel, sailed 24th July, and St. 18th October. ARRIVALS AT VALPARAISO. J'heMary Anne, uih Aug., from Sydney Caprlcho,it, trem dfcton. DEPARTURES PROM VALPARAISO. The Henry, tith 8ept., for Sydney Morley, 8th, for NewZra.ini and Sydney. ARRIVALS AT MADEIRA. The Prince Albert, 28th Nov., trom London and Falmouth, la.ln !d Dec. for the Cape of Good Hope and the Maurltiua, LIol, gL Dec., from Newcaatle, and sailed tor Bombay. DEPARTURE FROM LISBON. The Sea Horse teamer,22d December, for Van DicUkn'i Lar.i ARRIVAL AT TOMBBZ. The Sir A. Hammond whaler, 24th Auguit, out twenty-ft months, with 5U0 barrels of oil had loat the matter and t.vt ot v .t crew. LIVERPOOL, Dec. 31. SNIPS ARRIVED. The Ann from 8t. Petersburg, Balfour from Pernambuco ar.d Puralba, Jane Geary from Smyrna, Caroline from Seville, Dtverci-i from Quebec, and Orion from Gamla Carleby. SHIPS ENTERED VOR LOADING. The Ann and Jane for Kerbice, Nicolai for Bremen, Bririm Constantinople, Ltrd Panmure and Rapidc for Havannah, IriihLui for Monte Video and Buenes Ayres, Rob Roy for Philadelphia, Bo I-var for Kio Janeiro, Jane for bt. Thomas's, and Samaritan for IV-itantlnopleand Odessa. SHIPS CLEARED OUTWARDS. The Oriental steamer for Malta and Alexandria, Prompt for Chard-ton, Belvidere for Baltimore, and Helen Jane for Batavia and a! • gapore. snips sailed. The Oriental steamer for Malta and Alexandria, and Jamvi Lyon for Newtoundland. -The Devereaux, arrived at this port from Quebec, on the 27t!- oi November, In lat. 46, long. 44, experienced a heavy gale, ill iost bulwarks, c , and on the d of December, in lat. 46, long. 42, the Pleiades, of Whitby, timber laden, abandoned. The Balfour, arrived at this port from Pernambuco and Par is, after being on shore on Mud Wharf, was got off without spirit damage. M schooner Is aground on the West Hoyle, near tbe Point of Air. Off Holyhead,yesterday,outwardb und, the Caledonia forBorat ?. LONDON MARKETS-Thursday. CORN AVERAGES. Weekly Average.-Wheat 60s Id, Barley 32s 4d, Oati2iaVJ, 33s 5d, Beans 40s 9d, and Peas 40 Id. Six Weeks' Average.-Wheat 59s I0d, Barley 32s 9d,Oati2 • Rye 34s 4d, Beans 42s Id, and Peas 41s 6d. Duty.-Wheat 27s bd, Barley I3sl0d, Oats 15s 3d, R e l? 1 Beans 6s 6d, and Peas 3s Od. HAY MARKETS. Whitechapel.- 1 There was a tair supply of Hay at thii imirrJrg market, and a steady demand was experienced, more particu.v for the middling descriptions, at about former prices. Clover, tw from jf5 to d6, middling and Inferior £ to jfc4 15s, Meadow H f. tine, from £ to £h interior and middling £'6 5s to £i 1T• d f r load. There was a fair supply of Straw, but the demand being br.r the whole was soon cleared ott at 32s to 34s per load. Portman.-Old Meadow Hay 75 to 100s, Useful ditto o-i M 70s, Old Clover 100s to I lbs, Wheat Straw 36s to 40 , at per Iol 36 trusies. LIVERPOOL COTTON MARKET, Dec. 31. Our market utlll remains in a rather quiet state, without a '■■■ ■ cations of reduced prices, on the contrary, holders were steady. previous rates were obtained for 3,500 bags. i w Vote of a Piece of Plute to the Chair' ' oi the Bi.ackkuiaks BRinni Committee.-The beraof the Blackfriars-bridge committee have deter®' 1 ™ lo set the public an example of what ought to ha'r i 1,c ■ l done long ago, by presenting Mr. Prior, the indcfalip 1 1 chairman of the committee, with a piece of plate, ccr-memorative of his exertions to make such improves '-c ,, and repairs iu the structure ns to place it among',! tee most useful and elegant of modem metropolitan ed . eev The following is the resolution to which the comroittw came by acclamation at a iate meeting - ' -unanimously, That it be recommended that the of this committee should subscribe the sum of fifty f c - 1 for u piece of plate, to be presented ta Jonathan CWW Prior, Esq , chairman, as a testimonial of the senseof tne committee of his great services during the executiw c the important works for the substantial repair of B. -' friars-bridge. We are requested to state, that that fashionable pu • dteal, Blurkuuoil's tally's Magazine. Is about to be o! ' r the u.w year, with aUUitton.l therms and a. thi. t. the , P the public are ieeklng for the he t and cheapest nonet a th. proprietor of the Lady's Blackirood' Magutin. o '-o.j and Literature are determined to tike the lead, and P ' Jl ,• whose page, will be replete with vigour and taste, calculat'd , rich the female mind, and to blend treaaur.a of liiforan ll ''-, , amusement. The embellishment, are to be of th. b' '• 2 ea..Hence, uid each number will contain from three to r ur 1 . of the heweat Furl.Ian F.. iton.- a line eteel emrrae n. 01 ' Scenery No I, of ihee.riea , and nearly IS royal Svo. --' letter.pie.., Th. lubicrlptlon is Vs. monlltly, and th. .' ' plied by all booXteller In town aud country. . Puinck Alberts Skates-Ki zmauricc West, cut®' No. l.St. James's-street, has forwarded to Windsor, by com® 3 v' • his Royal Highness Prince Albert, a very elegant pair t f soles of which are formed of the finest foreign wood, and thetf' 'V ingsand straps of black leather, beautitully sown aod lintl ' seal skin far. Patronized by their Majesties the King and Qu' 1 ' 3 j Hanovar, and their Royal Highnesses the Princesses Angus® Sophia, her Serene Highness the Princess Esterhazy, the Mary and Rosa, her Grace tha Dowager Ductnas ot and their Graces the Archbishop of Canterbury and tbel Devonshire and Manchester. In addition to the atoW d jn-tlngulshed patronage to the newly-invented Spectacle I.eiit r ' visible Operative Voice Conductor, the Messrs. S. and W 0 . - C k ' opticians and aurlsts, 39, Albemarle street, Piccadilly, r, l ■ ' ■ -WilU im-strcet, Bank of England, feel great pleasure to state valuable Inventions have also gained the sanction and uuqo' probation of above four hundred ot tl e principal rlt,tr r ' D yb the medical protesaion as also of numerous Indivld'jal 0 j BI distinction, who have been greatly beoetited by their a . mediately these Improved Spectacle Lenses are placed wf0 tremely Imperfect vision, It Is at once bronght back and original stats. Their Voles Conductor, Is not the pa ' ble, nor more uncomfortable than having a piece of wool In j 1 and the faintest whisper at a public assembly is heard . , n ,i distinctness.-39, Albemarle street, opposite the York 76. King William-Street, Bank.-No connection with same name. BIRTH9. -efa On Sunday, the 27th ult., the wife of the Hon. H, T 5 ' ,4! ' ' ■° n . of On the 31st ult., at Claphatn park, Mrs. Stephen KfS-daughter. ' F. BOMBAY direct, under tae Hon- East India Company to ra.i j Sfan-sailing snip LADY PfcVKKSHAM . • jmander, lyn in the West India Uc, . 7 pa #enf rs ai l carries an esi-er.e n ,. , 1 •sageapplf to R. R rry. E-i- New cJity-cJ 'de and Co., Sun-court, or w. Cor' 1 OH .MADRAS and CALCIJ the 20th January, the rr, fr built hiF I J. Rfdwan. Com' '- X M' -• U-t. K.zpni-.tirot, stilus, i MAG NET I' p -rtab!e llr .?vnv 1 ha r . t -t o' t J ,,-, V
Die. E-Elizabeth Norths®, St Sidweil, 4 4-Margaret Wotton, St Marita, 64 6-Edilft Spiosr, St Matthew, 4 month Percy Underdown, ft James, 21 month 6- •William Robert , 8t James, 59 7- Emily Vienicombe, 8t Sidwell. 3 8- Samuel Markt, Holy Trinity, 79 William Marwood, St David, 33 Bamnel Bryant, St Paul, 65 Violet L Ka hmer, St Leonard. 1 month 6 --fxktkr flying roar, Saturday, December wh. Ca eluded from, the flying Post of Deo. 1. We lose the joy of nature knd the blewed old-time lays. We cannot voice their music In the present battling days We mis the holy commune 'Twixt the heart aud ife within The hallowed voice of o- nscience-I it silenced by the din ? The race of life is ardent. And torrid to its beat No flower of beauty lingers About those crowding feet. The weak hearts sink by thousands Beneath the surging throng, For in the world of conflict The victor are the strong. What if the dress of power Brings the novel crown of pain Wnat if the place of vantage Hath a cross to weight the gain ? What if the golden image Cannot render what we ask-How fruitless all the effort, And how bitter all the task. In striving for the magnet We lose the grester prise Of peace, and trua contentment. Wherein real greatness liss. Wherein, then, shall wo labour, But in trust, and to be free, With faith and hope to succour, And the Lord our destiny. William Tumid. Heavitree, December 6th, 1894-. MORNING SUMMARY. King Christian of Demark is ill. A Council will be held at Windsor on Wednesday. Fifteen aaarebists war arrested in Pari •n Thursday. Mrs. H. Beerbohm Tree gave birth to a daughter yesterday Thirteen Turkish officers have been appointed to various regiments in the Praseian irmy. A Putney gentlcmur', wife has eloped with 'i lodger, taking her •Ujht children and all he furniture. A daughter of Jabez Balfour, the wife of a well-known medical man at Croydon, hae jnet given birth to a son. Mr. C. Downes, of Worleston. met with a serious accident whilst hunting wiih tb Bouth Cheshire bounds yesterday. M. Ferdinand de Lesseps, of Suez Can fame, died last evening at his chateau of La Chennaic, near Vatan. A Dutchman, who shot himself to avoid arrest a d recovered from his injuries, has banged himself in prison at Monte Carlo. Sebastopol and Simferopol have just been connected by telephone, which has been attached to the telegraph poles on tha rail way. The Sheriff of Ayr has dismissed the petition of Mr. William John Fulton, who claimed the Earldom and estates of Eglinton. A mourning coach, two valuable borses, and a dozen sets of harness bare been stolen from an undertaking firm's premises in Hackney. M. Camille Dreyfus, an ex-deputy, manag ing Editor of the E'uiion, was arrested last evening in connection with the Paris black mailing scandals. The Japanese ate reported to have msde themselves quite at home at Port Arthur, and to be on rrier.Uly terms with the Chinese there. John Kenning, charged with stealing a seal cloak, value £800, the property of the Countess of Warwick, was yesterday seu-t moed to two months' hard labour. The Ranchers of tha Inner Tempi© have de cided to print tbe MS. records of their Society, datiog from 1,506, the twenty-second year of the reign of Henry VII., to the present time. At Ulster Assizes yesterday two game keepers, named Deane and Lees, were sentenced to twelve and six months'imprison ment respectively for baring wounded two poachers Mr. Stoddart's team yesterday began a match at Brisbane against Queensland. The Englishmen were at the wicket all day, aHd scored 364 for four wickets. Mr. Stoddart con tributing 149 and Ward 117. A deaf old lidy of 70 was knocked dowB by a train near Carmarthen, the engine aud three carriages passing over her as she lay between the lines, but with the exception of a scalp wound she was unhurt. Lord Londonderry, speaking in Marylebone last night, said the attack on the House of Lords was meant to divert attention from Home Rule, and repay the Nationalists by whose help the Government obtained office. The agitation was falling flat. At Chatham Dockyard at pay time yester day afternoon, a fitter, named James Winning forgot his ticket and ran back to fetch it, when by some means he fell from the top gallery of tlie fitting shop, His head struck a drilling machine with great violence, his skn'l was fractured, and death was instan taneous. At the North London Sessions yesteiday, Banfield Lamb, who, it was stated, belonging to an old Devonshire family, and five years ago succeeded to a fortune of £34,000, which had been squandered, was sentenced to six months' imprisonment with hard labenr on a charge of stealing a watch and card case at Souths . Will you rote tor me at the election? asked a Swansea School Board candidate of a gentleman of his acquaintance. No I shan't be here, was the reply, But- I'll tell you what I'll do-I'll lend you a trap Will you? cried the candidate enthusi astically Well that will carry more weight. - Cardiff Express At Leeds Assizes yesterday Mary Hopple-etone, 39, was charged with the manslaughter of her daughter, aged 12, at Sheffield, and was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment with hard laoour. The girl had been out plaving, aud staying too long, the prisoner lost her temper, and threw a poker at the child. The poker entered tbe neck and the injury proved fatal, Mr. Asqaltb, addressing a meeting under the auspices of the J ondon Reform Union last night, said Lcrd Salisbury's sudden and enamoured advocacy of dividing up London into municipality s might be at'r buted not to his love of municipalities so much as his haired of lit County Counoil. With regard to the City, be denied that they would be guilty of senfiseation. TORQUAY. Furatsh year hemes t the Bxehaiu A M rt Torquay. All goods oarriage free, newer seooad hand, to suit all pockets.-diet. Holloway's Coca Wine-The very thingfor invalids M lowav's Coca Wine-A scientific product irom Holloway's Coca Wine-Cooa Bolivia A Best Wine. Hollowsy'aCocaWine- Magic lestorer of nerve power. Sow av s Coca Wine-For young and old and delicate Ladies. H S.r.vway s Coca Wiuo-None other s Newman, and Wine Merchants, like it -Ld., and Milton, Chemiet, Exeter. Wilson, Ex-mouth, Ac. RJLUway'eCoca Wine-Takes precedence of all iu iiar preparation . DISTRICT NEW8. Mr. E. W. H U died at his ro denoo, CokerCourt, Yeovil, on Monday, Miss Troyte, Huntsham Qdtjrt, has presented an altar frontal to Hampton parish ohuroh. ' ■ , Lientenant E. C. Wren, 1st Deronshirs Regiment, has besn seleoted for duty at the Dep6t, Exeter, . The Rev. Canon Kyre, of TivcrtoD, ha dooided not to accept the living of Alton, Birmingham. The Rev. A. H. Reid, late of Torquay, has become successor to the Rev. W. Fergusson, of Ellen Free Chnrch. Mr. James Lewis Wolferstan, of Blundell's School, Tiverton, has been awarded an exhibi tion in mathematics at Worcester College. Hon. R. and Mre. Butler and Miss Butler, of Nidd Hall, Yorkshire, are staying at Braddon Court, Torquay, for a few weeks. Mr. Charles Sootier, the general manager of the London and South Western Railway has undergone a successful operation for cataract. Ilfracombe Town Council on Monday decided to apply for power to borrow £4,202 19s 4d for extending the water mains, jcc. Mr. J. C, New, chairrat.n of the Tiverton Guardians, ie to be entertained at a compli mentary dinner by tbe members of the Board on the 17th Inst. Exbtrr Pi3p .nsart - Saturday.-Re maining on the books last week, 596 admitted this week, 113-709 discharged cured, 44 benefited. 62 no return, 4-110 Remain 599. The Rev. W. H. Smith, of Newton Abbot, ha3 been presented with £10, subscribed by the Bible Christians of the Barnstaple Circuit as a recognition of his services during bis stay amongst them. Mr. William Bolitho, manager of the Con solidated Bank of Cornwall, and cousin of Mr. T. B. Bolitoo, M.P.. was found dead in bsd at his residence, Ponsandane, near Penzance, on Sunday morning. The Earl of Rosebery has consented to receive an address frem tbe Radicals of Salisbury and South Wiltshire, at Salisbury on the 10th inst., when he will pass through that city en route for Devonport. Mr. J Passmore Edwards has promised the Shoreditch Library Commissioners a con tribution £1.000 towards tbe erection of their second library in Pitfield-street as soon as they are ready to have the fontdatisn stone laid. This offer will bring up Mr. Edward's donation to the Shoredith Library to ££5,250 and 1,000 books, A marriage has been arranged between Cecil Roy Blunders of Downs House, Hants, son of tbe late Andrew Sanuders, B.A. Oxon, of Downs House, and Ada Maud, youngest daughter of the late Rev. William Twyae M.A. Cantab, for 28 yeare rector of Rayleigh, Eeeex, and also vicar of Whiteparlsh, Wilts. Uoncirt.-The concert at the Working Men' Society's Room, Milk-street, on Monday evening, was on behalf of the fund for provid ing a free tea to the aged poor. An excellent irogramme was contributed to by Messrs, i Rae, A and H Pitt, R Candy, W and J White, S G Chase, Guest, Thorn, W Willsy-Welsman, Punchard, and tb Grecian Hand bell Ringer . Before tb Davenport magistrates on Wednesday, John Sweet, residing at Baker's-place, Richmond Walk, was summoned by hi wife, Elizabeth, for assaulting her -There was a cross-summons against the wife for a similar offence.-Mr. Bickle Bond, Pearce and Bickle appeared for the husband, and asked for an adjournment. Terms had been offered, and an agreement was to be drawn up legally.-The case was adjourned for a week. Before tbe Mayor Mr J B James , Dr G A Rue, Messr J W Piyder, R B Welch, W Pe k, G T Rolston, G Thorne, and H Williams, at the Devonport Police Court on Wednesday Frederick Cole, grocer, Gsorge-street, was summoned at the instance of the inspector under the Food and Drugs Act Mr G T Geaton -- for selling adulterated coffee in November last.-Mr J P Goldsmith prosecuted.-Defendant admitted tbe offence, and said his wife,who was not in the business, nnfortuuatsly sold it without the protecting label. He bad no desiie to evade the law. -The Mayor said the Magictrates were of opinion that it was not inadvertently, and inflicted a fine of 5s and oosts. At the Higher Barrack?, Exeter, on Monday ing a court-martial was held for the purpose of trying Private George Pring, of the Depot Devon Regiment, for desertion, and losing by negleet, his clothing, 4co. The president was Major Spratt, tbe other officers present being Captain Johnstone Royal Artillery and LieutenantRadcliffe Depot Devon Regiment . It appears that the prisoner deserted his regiment at Maker Fort, Plymouth, in April, 1893, and surrendered at Exeter on November 21st last. The sentence passed at that day's hoaring will have to be sent to the Comman dant for confirmation, and will be made known in due course. At a meeting of the Bnrgeue of the Strand Ward held nt the British Schools, Torquay, on Monday, under th# presidency of Aider-man Bovey, it was deoided to support the candidature of Miss Webb, of Meadfoot-villa.was one of the two guardians for the ward. It wag proposed to accept the candidature of Councillor Wills as the other guardian. Another proposition was made in favour of Mr. Pridham - It was eventually decided to leave these twogenllemen to settle the matter between themselves, it being stated that Mr. Wills' nomination paper bad been lent in. Gymnastic Display -Members of the Exoter Y'.M.C.A. gave their third annual gymnastic display at the B rnfield Hall on Monday evening. The Right Worshipful the Mayor Alderman A. Steele-Perkins , who was accompanied by Miss Perkins, presided over a large attendance, and after referring to the great advantages of gymnastic exercises, said praise was due to their honorary teacher, who for two years had devoted eo muoh time to their training with no hope of reward beyond the satisfaction of doing good servico to his fellow creatures. It was not always presetting about other that did o muoh good a the silent influence of duty manfully and thoroughly perform d. The gymnast , before going through their drill, pre ented a bouquet to the Mayoress. Conservative Dinner at Bidrford. Bideford Conaervative Association held its annual dinner atth# Music Hall on Wednesday Major Kirkwood Chairman of the Associa tion, presiding over a company of about 350 persons. Aftsr the usual loyal and patriotic toast. Mr. W. A. Roberts proposed Bideford Working Men's Asiociation, which was acknowledged by Major Kirkwood, and Sir Cameron Gull Unionist candidate for the division in responding to the toast of the Unionist cause submitted by Mr. C. Garvtce, said he thoaght they might con gratulate themselves upon the fact that in all parts of the division the Unionist party was in excelleat heart they had an excellent example a few day ago at Barnstaple, aud they bad another excellent example that night in that enthuelastio gathering. They had only ene wieb, and that was to fight their battle and the sooner they got the opportunity the better they would be pleased. Applause. They had leaders whom they could trust, and who cosld lead and they had a policy that re quired no gentle handing to commend it to the people of this country, a policy aiming at tbe health aud home happiness of the people, and at tbe peace and prosperity of tbe country. Their opponents had programmes without end, and perhaps th leading mark of their polioy was the attempt to stir np class against class. They had leaders whom they followed, but who could not agree amongst themselves. Ho had been accused of saying at Watermonth that the Unionist pxrty would repeal the Budget he had never said anything of th sort What did ha say, and what he laid now, was that It was most unwise in the present state of depression to place mere burdens upon the land. With regard to Mr Billson' primming on the compensation The Hoi , Oeotl aud Mi . KnatobbaU Hugessen have arrived at the Imperial Hotel Torquay, for th winter. Dr. Hawkin, senior member of the Royal College of Surgeons, died at Lowell, Dorset shire, this morning in bis 99th year. The Oxford University Silver Cup for the best marksman in the company has been awarded to Mr. A. S. Scott, eon of the Bev, W. Scott, of Exeter. Mr. H. A. Willey has presented to the trustees of the Bible Christian Chapel, Exeter, two handsome overhanging lamps for the doors of the Chapel. Mr. F. G. S. Taylor, eon of Councillor T Taylor, of Torquay, was on Moaday married to Miss Alice M. Johnson, daughter of Mr. S. Johnson, borough treasurer. At a fortnightly meeting ot the Loyal Fidelity Lodge, Manchester Unity of Oddfellows, at Barnstaple on Monday evening, Mr. A. Billson, M.P., was initiated an bon. member of tho Lodge. TheDuke of Bedford, !n a letter to Mr. G. W. Holder, the promoter of a concert held in Peterborough last night on behalf of the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution, •ent a cheque for one hundred pounds towards its funds On Monday at the Working Men's Society's Rooms Mr. Bishenden will give his complete lecture on Voice and Singing, including a short concert with songs and solos by bis upils, the Misses Cruttwell, Gamham, Vreford, and Mrs. Bishenden, Messrs. Chandler, Hitt, Ballan, and C. J. Bishenden. These singers will Include four octaves of notes between them Death of Mb. J.G. Gf.arb.-We regret to have to announce the death of Mr. John Gullett Geare, formerly ef Paragon House, South-street, and afterwards of No. 1, Fair Park which event took place at the latter residence on Monday at the ripe old age of 86 years. The deoeaeed was of a very charitable disposition,and most of the institutions of the city have benefited by his generosity. Tho following were the scores made by tho members of C and D Companies Exbourne , 4th V.B.D.R., who comfe'ed for the Sir Massey Lope's Cup and money prizesSergt F Lewis 94, Lnce-Corpl W Ward 92, Cprpl W Letheren 89, Pte E Tucker 84, Corpl H J Ward 82, Major Biddell 81, Pte G Glanville 80. Pte J D Lewis 77, Corpl W 8 Lewis 76, Sergt Pearse 68, Coir-Sergt Weeki 68, Lnoe-Corpl Rick 84. Exmoor.-On Tuesday at St. James' Guilds'Schoolroom, Mr. H. Owen Scott gave his interesting and racy description of Rambles in the Lorna Doone Country. His remark were illustrated by a hundred beauti ful photographic slides, depicting the moft pioturesque objects on and around Exmoor, and tbe entertainment was moil enjoyable throughout. It is satisfactory to learn that the Funds of tho Parish Rooms will be increased a a result by several pounds. Serious Gas Explosion at Plxmouth. -A gas explosion occurred in a eecond-hand furniture shop occupied by Mr. Shobrook, at Russell-treet, Plymouth, bn Thursday, blowing out the shop front and the windows of the first floor. A large portion of theoeiling fell in and much damage was dono to the furniture. The only personal injury was to a lady, who was passing at tbe time and re ceived seme nasty cut from the flying glass Inquest in Exeter,-At York-place, Coomfeo - street, yestsrday, Mr. Corensr Hooper held an inquiry into the circum stances attending the death of William John Soanes, aged one year and eleven months, who died on Thursday morning.-William Soanes, a warehouseman, residing at No. 6, York -place, CoomSe-street,identified tbe body as that of his son. who had recently been •offering from measlas.-Mr . Marv Lee, who had nursed the ohild daring the measles, said it died on Thursday about 4 a.m.-Dr. Brash deposed that death was due to con gestion of the lungs after meatlet.-The jury returned a verdict of Death from natural causes. Exeter and Devon Poultry Society.-The last monthly meeting of the year waa held on Thursday evening at the Guildhall, under the presidency of the Chairman of Committee. The prize monej won locally was paid, andjprize and commendation cards distributed. The chairman read letters from the jadges at the recent shov. and stated that many communications had been received from the hon. secretaries expressing great satisfaction at the show arrangements, the accurate re turn of tbe exhibits, the prompt despatch of catalogues with the awards, and tne artiatie design and novel conception of the prize cards. Mr. H. Bazeley Strrorass and Mr. U Northway Exeter were appointed auditors. Several notices of alteration of tbe rules were handed in, and will be deolaed at the annual general meeting to be held at tbe Guildhall on January 3rd, Devon and Exeter Hospital.-Report for the week ending 6th December, 1894 -Discharged patients Cured 7, benefited 2, made out-patients 13, own request I, died 1. Number of In-pattenta after tbe admission last Thursday 167, admitted during the week 14-181 dis charged during the week 24, total in the house 157. At the weekly meeting of the committee, held this afternoon, the secretary reported tha receipt of the following -Pheasants from Mr. Charles D. Cave books, kc., from the Religious Tract Society, dolls and articles of clothing from Mr. Albert J. Hamlin. Chnrch collections-Sidbury £5 5s, Bidestowe £2 4s. New subscription-Key. J. Loveband Francis £1 Is. Retorn of income tax £88 9s. The donations for tbe building fund received up to tbe present amonnt to £3,713 10s, farther subscriptions being earnestly solicited. - - V ' MM. Wilson, wtfa of the Re . Charles Wilson, HA., formerly of Sherwill Chapel. Plymouth, ha died suddenly At Kxmonth Police Court on Wednesday-before General Rocks-Samuel Lear, tramp wa tent to prison for four days tor hawking without a license. Mr. W. G. Peter, of the Castle of Exeter, and well known in the fowl world, was awardtd a seoond prize at the Birmingham Show on Wednesday. Mr. A. Goulston, of Mont-le-Grand, Heavi tree, has been elected a warden of the Worshipful Company of Curriers if London, and Deputy Halso the other warden. A marriage has been arranged between Lieuteuant-Colonel Howard, Rifle Brigade, and Gertrude, second daughter of Mr Hugh Conyngbam Boyd, of Weodside, Torquay, Mr. Thomas Tnnstall, locomotive foreman at the Newton Railway Station for the past eighteen years, has resigned after forty-nine years' ssrvioe on the Great Western Railway. Mr. M. S. Cox, headmaster of the Moreton-hampstead Boys' School, was on Monday pre seated by the teachers and scholars with revolving electro-plated cruet as a wedding tilt. Mr. Jamee Tueker, of St. Thomas, was on Monday installed W.M. of Semper Fidelis Lodge No. 1.254 , of Free masons, at the Freemason's Hall, Gaudy-street, Exeter Rifles.-The second competition for the Morris tube prizes took place on Tuesday evening, the following being the best scores -Private Cooper 35, Lance-Corporal Browne 34, Sergeant Easton 33, Color-Sergeant Dyinond 31, Hon Member Baker 31, Private Westlake 28. At the Topsbam Barracks on Thursday a court-martial was held for the purpose of trying Driver Smith, of the 56 th Battery Royal Artillery, on a charge of desertion and losing by neglect his clothes. Major Spratt was the president, and Caplain and Adjutant Briggs 1st V.B.D.R and another officer of the Royal Horse Artillery were also present.-Sentence was passed, and will be made known in due course.-The sen tence in the case of Private Pring, of the Devon Regiment, who was tried hr court-martlAl a few days since for desert ing at Maker Fort, has been mane known. He is to be imprisoned for eighty-four days. Paignton Petty Sessions -At the Sessions Wednesday, before Admiral Dawkins, Mr N Baker, Captain Hodge, and Major Turner.-George Weare was fined 5s inclusive for allowing a horse to stiay at Marldon on November 21st.- John T. Hill, a young carpenter whose wages he said as improver, were 17s a week, was summoned by Emma Crispin to shew cause, kc. He admitted the paternity aud was ordered to pay 2s 6d per week till the child is 16. and £2 Is expenses and advocates fee.-On the charge of cruelty to a horse against John Bowden, on tbe application of Inspector Craigen, tbe case was adjoorned to Brixham Sessions next Wednes day. £5 0 0 To-Morrow's f At question. Sir Cameron said A Mr. Uran had remarked that after his t o' speaker's views upon compensation temper ance friend would have nothing to hope lor from such a candidate. He wondered what temperance friendi bad to hops for from Mr. Billson after his oonrusioa to wmpeiualion Applause. St. Thomas School Board -Mr ,T Stocker presided ever the meeting of the St. Thomas School Board on Thursday evening, those also present being the Revs C D Blakiston and C H William , Messrs H B Varwell, J Stokes, and J Bates.-Messrs Stocker and Stokes were appointed the Visiting Committee for the month.-The auditor's report showed there was no deti jit In tbe accounts.-Mr J Rates moved that the resolution passed in October that teachers' salaries be paid quarterly be rescinded, and that the salaries be paid monthly.-Mr. Stokes seconded, and tbe motion rvas carried unanimously.-Mr Bates then moved that a meeting of tb Board be held on the 25th of each month to draw cheques for that purpose, but this found no seconder.-Mr. Stokes moved, and Mr. Varwell seconded, that the cheques bs signed at the Board' oidinary meeting. This was carried. A Torquay Assault Case.-At Tor quay on Thursday, Frederick Morse, cab-driver, was summoned for assaultiug John Grist in Torwood-street, Torquay, last Satur day.-Mr S 8hca appeared for the com plainant, and Mr T B Eastley for the defen dant.-Mr Shea asked that all witnesses be ordered ont of Court. This was agreed tn, and the ex-Mayor rose, amid considerable langhtsr.to go out, saying that he believed he was a witness -Both sides, however, agreed that Mr Shrubb should remain.-The case for prosecution was to the effeot that on tte day in question at the Torwood-street cab-stand, complainant was talking to defendant's daughter, when Morse oalled out to her to come away from him as he was a scoundrel and ought to be in Exeter Gaol, Afterwards complainant protested against these remarks. A few words resulted Complainant remaiked, I never took corn out of another man's stable.' Then the defendant rushed at him in a fighting attitude and knocked him down. Mr. Shrubb cam along just then and endeavoured to make peace by suggesting that the men should shake hands. Com plainant, however, said he could not do this. -In cross-examination, complainant ad mitted that after the battle was over -laughter -lie did say as to the statement about taking corn that there was a man up behind who could prove it. John Vicary, a cabman, also gave evidence. He said it was generally stated that there had been illfeeling between the parties. Morse did not strike Grist till he hvl been accuse 1 ''of stealing corn.-At this point Mr. Eastley applied tha his client bea'lowedto withdraw bis nlea , ? not guilty aud substitute one of guilty and that h be allowed to address the Bench in mitigation. Thiscouisewas agretd to, and after hearing acf address from Mr. Eastley ths Bench fined defendant £1 inclu sive thecosts amounting to 17s ox fourteen days. Defends 1 paid tot f us. Exeter School Board.-The monthly meeting of tbe Exeter School Board was held en Thursday at tbe offices, Mr. T. Andrew presiding. There were also ireseut the Rev VV W Howard, Messrs R R M law, W H Dunn, W G Seager, J A Loram, and A J Mackey.-Mr. Howard reported that as instructed he bad had a conference with Mr F J Harvey, of St. Leonard's-road, in regard to hi proposal to give courses of lessens to teaobers and pupils on Swedish drill,physical exercise , c under the new code.-Mr Harvey was w'lling to instruct the teachers for £18 the year, and the scholars for £11 5s the first term, instruction being given once a week, and £5 each for the other two terms instruction once a fortnight.-It was decided to adopt the principle of a permanent teacher, and to refer the matter to the School Manage ment Committee with power to appoint. The Borwick-Greene Recitil.-There wrs a crowded audience at tho Rougemont Assembly Rooms on Wednesday at the piano and you il recital given by Mr. Leonard BorwicK and Mr. Blanket Greene, and the performances of the two gifted artists were received with the warmest demonstrations of approval. Mr. Borwick proved himself to be a pianist of great executive ability and piwer, and these qualities found no better expression than in Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody, for whioh he was recalled twice to the platform. He was also very snccessfal in a caprice by Saint-Saens on ballet airs from Alceste deG'nolr, in whioh he produced a remarkable singing tone in tho themes. Mr. Blanket Greene highly pleased hie audience with bis vocal contributions to a most enjoyable concert. Tho pianos-splendid instruments - were by Messrs. Steinway. Wellington Christmas Cattle Market. -Fine weather favoured the large numbers of buyers, farmers and others who attended the Wellington market on Thursday, The supply both ot oeasts and sheep w. except ionally large and the quality was universally acknowledged to be excellent.-Best quality bee made from 10s 6d to 13s a score, and tbe prices realised for sheep was not above the average. Tbe prizs list was as follows -Best fat ox or steer, silver oup value £5, given by Mr E U Sanford-Mr J Kidnor. Fat ox or steer, silver cup value £3 3s given by Sir Alex Acland Hood, M.B., -Mr H Ewens. Fat heifer, silver cup value £3-1. Mr H Amery 2, Mr H Ewens. Best pen of five short wool fat wethers, prize of £2 2s-Mr H Ewens second prize one gainea. Mr H Ewens. The annual dinner was held at the King's Arms Hotel, and Sir Alex Acland Hood, M.P., presided and dis tributed the prizes Dawlish Local Board.-Tbe last meeting of tills Board was held on Thursday under the presidency of Mr. H. L. Friend in tho chair. There were also present Messrs J Manning, J BAvanc, J Horsham, J H G Lamacraft, W C Tapper, E H Bayldon, E A Baradne, J Shapter. -The Medical Officer of Health Dr. Harvey reported that there was no notification of disease during tbe month and that the health of the town was very sathfactory.-Mr Charles Edmunds, baker, wrote calling atten tion to tho drains at the back of his premises in Stonkton-road. Owing to the recont flood he had bad a continual flow of water right through his yard, passages, house, and shop, and he had been compelled to dip it out in bucketfuls. The floods had spoilt 39s worth in canvas, mats, and carpets, for which he should ask the Boaid to pay compensation. This was the third winter he had sustained a aicilarlosS.-Mr.Lamacraft said the drain was not large enough to carry away the surface water.-The Clerk said the Sanitary Authority was not lianle.-It was decided not to allow the claim, and, on the motion of Mr. Tapper, it was resolved that the Surveyor should see into the drain and report on the matter. -The Clerk said this was the last meeting of the Board, which had been in existence since 1860. He had been olerk to the body for ths lost twenty years, and daring that time he had always done all in his power for the Board, and he would in the future try to do his duty for the District Council.-The Chairman said all the members would join with him in expressing their thanks to tbe Clerk for the able manner in wblob he had discharged hi duties.-Mr. Avant spoke in a similar strain, and Mr. Wbidborne returned thanks and said he was exceeding obliged for the compliment.-Mr. A. Curtis, of Biermont-place, claimed 13s 6d for damage sustained through the recent flood', but it was not entertalneJ. Coal Merchants, T. B Puros'.l and Sons, High-street. To enjoy your Dinners, get your Join , kc., frem HUTCHINGS and SON, who supply ouly tbe Best Devcm Ox Beef aud Wether Mutton pro curable. The Best is Cheapest. Telephone No SO.-Adct. NEWARRIVAL -Apricot Jam Is, per 2lb glass at Eraser's, Loudon Inn Square, Exeter. Clear Your Houses, kc., Stone's Murici-dine is the most Powerful Poison for destroying Mice, Rats, and other vermin. 31 0J. aud l. . Buckets of Chemists. Pro prietors Stone and Son. Exeter. - Adot. ■ t . -. ML W K. MooaB'g Hair-cutting Rooms are open from 9 a.in. to 7 p.m and on Saturdays from 9 to 6 o'clock Reliable assistants and every attention pal'. t customers. 30, High-stxast • -Adot. £125 Will be paid to the Legal Personal Representa tive of any person KILLED BY AN ACCIDENT OCCURRING TO THE RAILWAY TRAIN by which he or she may be travelling is an ordinary passenger within the limits of the Uaited Kingdom or Will be paid to any such pas-W senger losing two limbs or two eyes, or a limb and an eye, as the direct result of such accident or Will be paid to any such.pas senger losing one limb or one eye a the direct result of such accident. On the following conditions -1 That at the time of the accident the pas senger iu question had upon bis or her person a copy of the current iseue of Treu'Man's Exeter Flying Post. See footnote .' 2 That prior to the aecident tbe person in question had affixed his or her nsusl signature, written in ink or pencil, in the place provided. Sen footnote . 31 That notice of the accident be given to the Corporation guaranteeing this certificate within seven days of its occurrence. t That death or injury as aforesaid result within three months of tbe date of such accident. 5 This Insurance is limited to the payment of ou of the above sums to any one person, and n person can claim in respect of more than one certificate. 6 The Insurance under this Certificate extends from tbe morning of the date of this paper to the Friday midnight following. Tho due fulfilment of the above Certificate is undertaken by THE GENERAL ACCIDENT ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED. An Annual subscriber in advance to Trtvman'i Exeter Etying Pott is Nor required to comply with Clauses 1 and 2 as to signing or carrying this Certificate, provided bis subscrip tion ha been paid and hi name has been regis tered at the publishing office of this paper-Exeter-and provided the subscription has not expired at the time of the accident. Ser.ic°i T DIUL ' - 10 30 - Mornin Service Boyce in c. Kyriu and Credo The dLu l8 ' r,it . aC6 preacher S.rm.n a .3' AfWrn 0 '' Service arc pllnn Bth ?-Attwood in C. 84 it ?? H , Wfal ' me -Spohr. Hymr 7 1. . 1 r 6endary Be.vton L'7!£5ay? , -Hymns, 88, 113,131 preacher Kov. W 1 Martlew. 6.30, Evening Ser i '-m.m. m r,-A,. , Baptist Chapel Bartholon. w-s eetl °. r in p S 8 V . Pray r Mee K 10. School 10.45, Preaching Service pr, che Rev R. Francis newly elected Past r wter-noon, 2 30, School. 2.45. Men , I b •! , conducted by the Pastor. 6 30, rca 'iin, Service preacher, Rev. K. Frauci, n wl elected Paetor . v Baptist Chapel South-street .-Chan. .Anniversary, 10.45. Morning Service preacher, Rev. D. P. McPherson B D subject, Christian Harvest Home. 6 3 Evening Service preacher. Hev D ' i McPherson, B.D., subject, The P-eacht ana the Chancellor. ht Bible Christian Chapel Northernha-in r st t '7. Mo - rmng ' J' 30 ' Prayer Meeting 10 45, Service. Evening, 5 45 Pr... Meeting 6.30. Service. 8 ' •' It. Signature of Holder-The annual subwiption to TreVanarin Exrter Flying Post is 2s 2d or by post direct frofti the publishing ojjice, Exeter, 4 4d- Jf payment is made through a neiesaoent, his receipt must be forwarded to the publishim office for registration of the subscribers name ami address. -.il _ I'gC l'tiOMAS MAB7IN £ rOOK AND j HAKB jgROKH 16, BEDFORD CIBCDg, IXHH CLOAKST LOmON PtlOSS. Saeeial Dealiss ia Week ef Batlaad levestesea COMMERCIAL INTELLIGENCE. 12.0 ■early al Markets opened steady, and departments mark a recovery. Goschen's Consols remain unaltered for onev and account. Home Railways quiet but tbe tone is firm. Berthas, Doras, and Berwicks bar each gained £ Brums, however, are i lower. The Foreign market is neglected and changes unimportant. Italians dull and have receeded 3-16. Argentine issues good. Funding Loan has risen , Grand Tranks good in sympathy with Yankees. First Preference aud Guaranteed have advarcid 1, Seconds , Thirds J, and Ordinary Stock . Mexican and Nitrate Railways lifeless and quotations remain unchanged. American Railways good and prices have advanced in consequence of better advice from New York. New York Centrals mark a gain of 1£ Denver Preferences and Milwaukces r. Canadas and Union Pacifies i, Ontario! J, Central Pacifice, Illinois, Centrals, Lomsvilles, Missouri!, Norfolks, and Atchison Shares 1. Mining Shares are fairly steady. Chartered British 3d better at 42 61 Goldfields un changed at 3txd. STOCK A WO Sff AEE LC3 f Desoript'o of Btk Consol , Account tn6ia3paStUt44 Brighton A South But Df ... Metropolitan Cou Do DUtriotOr Chatham Or Oaledeaia Dt... llenfcSheffield A Great Eastern Or North British Ff Do 4 Df North Eastern Or Oraat Western Or Midland Or LAN Wast Or LAB WPf Or... De Df Or Hell k Barnsley Argntine6 pu ' # Do 6 p Faad Egypt UaDtt p 3r kl88t.... Morin so 8 ps Portugu ■ sent pnitres. Ships pass tbros ,k the 8' Cnrxl • ! the electric light in eight minutes uuo ■ hour . Without the light 31 hoc-a -minutes is the time usually required. London. Dr. Moore, in his work on Nose and i hroat Diseases, says The Glvceriue Jujubes prepared by James Epp and Co. arc ot undoubted service as a curative or pallative gent, while Dr. Gordon Holmes, Senior Physician to the Municipal Throat und Ear in firmary, writes After an extended trial, 1 have found your Glycerine Jujubes of consider able beuefit iu almost all form of throat disease' The Durham miners have ngreed to th rules proposed for a Conciliatieu Boaid in Durham. Mr. Balfour has definitely decided not to accept the invitation of the Swansea Conser vatives to visit tbe town and speak next --•nth. HiOH-CLASS High-class High-class High-class High-class MoClWATTi Maxawattss Mazawattss Mazawaitss Mazawattss Co rev Cor.-VK Corytn Coe ft -Cor A . 1,4, 1,6, 1,8 and 8 - per 16 O f c ' ' Considerable progress has the great wheel which is to be the feature of the Empire Court next year. Quite half the th circle kas been already tued. Xmas. Hamper ! Xmas. Ham nrs! DJUifflOUfi MAZAWAXTRE r Ab EJCUCIOUS M AZ A WATl'BE In g.lh A ut Bampari.aUPr' f Ot LkaULhO Gbqcbm Evebina-THE -A • The first wish the Lo held tbrouj Foil held in the will take W first meetij on thv 27tbj meeting is Sixty-one in, and ' e Major forty-one witbdrawin follows' land agent, p Baker, merchant, packer, tnl merchant, 5J 49 K J h.-l gcntlft mar v J YV T Snoerdd 42 C S demanded. The Rev following James Brel builder G yeoaoaE Hawking-farmer i I dairyman Maunder, R Martin,id X i .-rsNEsrl T rl ' W03LI ch • t '- !e Pro ! '•el cat H Jvxpu ' ' f l Ca j I ■'.rthoul ■ -, r l 
581 'ept. 13, uneasy in our e idea of any y sentiment of erect among nvade us with arous purpose en that dread, s come it must, men like you s infamy and and justice of truth among are unblush-f trafficking in ul recollection e old momen-oer from that rioteers whose h a false land anish from the Lord! istanceter in hour or two rnt oi the ques-er to attempt to 1845. the examiner. •at the dry and withered grass around us. We now lay down to rest ourselves, and the boy soon fell asleep I was however feverish and restless, and could not close my eyes. In an hour and a half I arose, got up the horses and saddled them, and then, awaking my companion, we again pushed on by moonlight. At ten miles we crossed a well-beaten native pathway, plainly discernible even then, and this we followed down towards the cliffs, fully hoping it would lead to water. Our hopes, however, had been excited but to render our disappointment the greater, for upon tracing it onwards we found it terminate abruptly at a large circular hole of limestone rock, which would retain a considerable quantity of water after rains, but was now without a single drop. Gloomily turning away we again pushed on for eight miles further, and at three in the morning of the 10th were compelled to halt from downright exhaustion and fatigue. The horses and sheep were knocked up. The poor boy was so tired and sleepy that he could scarcely sit upon his horse, and I found myself actually dosing as I walked mechanically my legs kept moving forwards, but my eves were every now and then closed in forgetfulness of all around me, until I was suddenly thrown down by get ting entangled amongst the scrub, or aroused by a severe blow across the face from the recoil of a bough after the passage of the boy's horse. I now judged we had come about ninety-three miles from Yeerkum-ban-kauwe, and hoped that we could not be very far from water. Having tied up the horses for an hour or two, and without making a fire, or even unrolling our cloaks to cover us, we stretched eurselveaon the ground, and were in a few moments fast asleep. . March 10.-At five we were again on our route, every moment expecting to see a break in the line of cliffs along which we had now travelled so far. Alas ! they still con tinued stretching as far as the eye could see to the west ward, and as fast as we arrived at one point which had bounded our vision and beyond which we hoped a change might occur , it was but to be met with the view of another beyond. Distressing and fatal as the continuance of these cliffs might prove to us, there was a grandeur and sub limity in their appearance that was most imposing, and which struck me with admiration. Stretching out before us in lofty unbroken outline, they presented the singular and romantic appearance of massy battlements of masonry, gupported by huge buttresses, and glittering in the morn ing sun which had now risen upon them, and made the scene beautiful even amidst the dangers and anxieties of our situation. In a direct line of upwards of 800 miles thus gone over by Mr Eyre, there does not seem to have been a watercourse, or a hollow of any kind, crossed and not a drop of fresh water accessible on the surface. It could only be obtained by dig ging close to the sea-shore, or the sand-liills of the coast and even by that means was often not pro curable for distances of 160 miles together. The dreary waste is described by Mr Eyre as an almost uniform table land of fossil formation, with an ele vation of from three to five hundred feet covered for the most part by dense impenetrable scrubs, and only varied on its surface by occasional sandy or rocky undulations. The dangers and sufferings of travel in such a region may be conceived as well as its generally uninteresting character. But every now and then a startling little trait occurs which gives the living touch of reality to the scene and again carries the reader forward, watchful and anxious for the traveller. In the following for instance. . . . I occupied myself in writing and charting during the day, and at night amused myself in taking stellar obser vations for latitude. I had already taken the altitude of Vega, and deduced the latitude to be 32 deg. 3 min. 23 sec. S. leaving my artificial horizon on the ground outside whilst I remained in the tent waiting until Altair came to the meri dian, I then took my sextant and went out to observe this star also but upon putting down my hand to take hold of the horizon-glass in order to wipe the dew off, my fingers went into the quicksilver-the horizon-glass was gone, and also the piece of canvas I had put on the ground to lie down upon whilst observing so low an altitude as that of Vega. Searching a little more, I missed a spade, a parcel of horse shoes, an axe, a tin dish, some ropes, a grubbing-hoe, and several smaller things which had been left outside the tent, as not being likely to take any injury from the damp. It was evident I was surrounded bv natives, who had stolen all these things during the short time I had been in my tent, certainly not exceeding half an hour. The night was very windy, and I had heard nothing besides, I was encamped in the midst of a very dense brush of large wide-spreading tea-trees and other bushes, any of which would afford a screen for a considerable number of natives. In daylight it was impossible to see many yards in distance, and nothing could be discerned at night. ... As soon as I missed my horizon-glass, and entertained the suspicion of natives being about, I hurried into the tent, and lighting a large blue light, run with it rapidly through the bushes around me. The effect of this was very beauti ful amidst the darkness and gloom of the woods, and for a great distance in every direction objects could be seen as well as by day the natives, however, were gone and I could only console myself by firing a couple of balls after them through the underwood, to warn them of the danger of intruding upon me again. I then put everything which had been left outside into the tent, and kept watch for an hour or two but my visitors came no more. . . . Rising very early, I set to work with an axe to clear away the hushes from around my tent. I now discovered that the natives had been concealed behind a large tea-tree not twenty yarifs from the tent there were numerous foot-marks there, and the remains of fire-sticks which they had brought with them, for a native rarely moves at night with out fire. treatise or dissertation at the close of his work. The reader interested in the subject will find his information curious and ample. The matters treated of embrace not only the physical and moral state of the aborigines their habits of life, rude government, and social relations their language and dialects but also very interesting notices of he effects of their contact with Europeans, and some valuable suggestions for an improvement in the system generally adopted towards them. Our extracts are limited by our space but to even readers familiar with Captain Grey's excellent dissertations, much of Mr Eyre's information will be new and original. husband and wife. Wives are considered the absolute property of the hus band, and can be given away, or exchanged, or lent, ac cording to his caprice. A husband is denominated in the Adelaide dialect, Yongarra, Martanya the owner or pro prietor of a wile . Female children are betrothed usually from early infancy, and such arrangements are usually ad hered to still in many cases circumstances occur frequently to cause an alteration but if not, the girls generally go to live with their husbands about the age of twelve, and some times even before that. Relatives nearer than cousins are not allowed to marry, and this alliance does not generally take place Female orphans belong to the nearest male re lative, as also does a widow', instead of to the nearest male relative of the husband, as was found to be the case in Western Australia by Captain Grey. Two or three months generally elapse before the widow goes to another hus band but if the wife dies, the man takes another as soon as he can get one. If a woman, having young children, join another tribe, the children go with her but I am not aware whether they would remain permanently attached to that tribe or not. Brothers often barter their sisters for wives for themselves, but it can only be done with the parents' consent, or after their death. If a wife be stolen, war is always continued until she is given up, or another female in her place. There is no ceremony connected with the undertaking of marriage. In those cases where I have witnessed the giving away of a wife, the woman was simply ordered by the nearest male relative in whose disposal she was, to take up her ' rocko,' the bag in which a female carries the effects of her husband, and go to the man's camp to whom she had been given. Marriage is not looked upon as any pledge of chastity, indeed no such virtue is recognised. But little real affection consequently exists between husbands and wives, and young men value a wife principally for her ser vices as a slave in fact, when asked why they are anxious to obtain wives, their usual reply is, that they may get wood, water, and food for them, and carry whatever pro perty they possess. NATIVE MODESTY. Innate propriety of behaviour is also frequently exhi bited by the Aborigines in their natural state, in the modest unasuming manner in which they take their positions to observe what is going on, and in a total absence of any thing that is rude oroffensive. It is true that the reverse of this is also often to be met with but I think it will usually be found that it is among natives who have before been in contact with Europeans, or where familiarities have been used with them first, or an injudicious system of treat ment has been adopted towards them. Delicacy of feeling is not often laid to the charge of the Aborigines, and yet I was witness to a singular instance of it at King George's Sound. I was looking one evening at the natives dancing, and who were, as they always are on these occasions, in a state of complete nudity. In the midst of the performance, one ol the natives standing by as a spectator, mentioned that a white woman was passing up the road and although this was some little distance away, and the night was tolerably dark, they all with one accord crossed over to the bushes where their cloaks were, put them on, and resumed their amusement. joke of their own, which is much more remarkable for its dullness than for any more lady-like quality. LYCEUM. An excellent new farce was played here on Mon day night better than any piece of its class which I we have seen for many a day. It has nicety of ' character, and a good broad humour. You laugh, and have no need to be ashamed f your mirth. There is neither caricature nor coarseness. We cannot stay to tell the plot which'is a plot, and not told without some pains , but must briefly counsel the playgoer to see Peter Jenkins. Mr and Mrs Keeley, Mr Wigan and Mr Meadows, complete an admirable cast. Mr Keeley is not only an honest truth-telling fellow forced to tell lies for a friend but a confirmed little bachelor, caught, willy-nilly, in the snares of matrimony. His dilemmas are intense, and he does justice to them. FOREIGN NEWS. Some representations of native ornaments, wea-pons, and implements and works of industry, in this part of the book, are useful to the text. THE THEATRICAL EXAMINER. Mr Eyre seems to have no hope, in spite of Capt. Sturt's cheering dispatches, that any inland sea will ever be ultimately discovered behind this vast unpromising table land. Can it be, he asks, that the whole is one immense interminable desert, or an alternation of deserts and shallow lakes ? Incidental to the narrative of the expeditions are many illustrations of native character but Mr Eyre, as vie before said, has collected all hi. mnnv years HAYMARKET. The False Mr Pope is a retired Hammersmith tradesman of about five feet four, with a Ramilie wig and tail more than half as big as himself, square-cut buckram skirts, long flapped white waistcoat, and minute three-cornered hat, who is passed off by a wag of a player upon a party of petticoat admirers of Pope, for the celebrated au thor of the Dunciad. To fancy Mr Buckstone in this predicament, is to have a very clear notion of Mr Peake's amusing farce, It is nicely presented with abundance of pe ruke for the gentlemen, and of hoods, clustering curls, cardinals, and little china, for the ladies and it perpetrates avast many abominable jokes, which nobody but the actors and actresses can possibly be expected to laugh at. But this is the moral. The ladies are in such a state of frantic foregone admiration of Mr Pope, that the more audacious the flights of Mr Buckstone the wittier they are taken to be and though this is rather a danger ous experiment for a farce, the audience help it ont with their good-nature. Indeed it would take a troublesome amount of the other quality to withstand Mr Buckstone's practical points of drollery. When he takes OS' his wig in a sudden heat, for example, and exposes his small bald head, Swift's mouse under a canopy of state is nothing to it. When he effects a series of practical Rapes of the Lock, too, he uses the scissors like a true poet. And when he passes from doing to suffering, tastes the griefs as well as glories of fame, and is well thrashed by Mr Curb's chairman as he leaves the player's house,-the act closed with a roar. There should have been no second. There is nothing but stale repetition in ... . , IIVU in- - ' p . i.j.vviv.i... ... f.xpeiieucea U this htsvl into it ttep ntto ho gecQtitl not. Tli • Mies potwi witij a ppociiuitl FRANCE. Death of M. Royer Collard.-This illustrious citizen died on the 4th inst., at his estate at Chateauvieux, near Saint-Aignan, in the 82nd year of his age. M. Royer Collard had been President of the Chamber of De puties, Member of the French Academy, and Professor of Philosophy at the College of France. The Slave Trade Convention.- The vessels in tended to act against the slave trade are not, says the ' Constitutionnel,' yet ready to proceed to the coasts of Africa. They are not to set out for six weeks or two months. Meanwhile communications are exchanged with England every day on the subject of the mission which the two navies are to fulfil together. Recently the Ad miralty has drawn up regulations for day and night sig nals, which the English and French cruisers are to make use of, in order to mutually recognise each other. It ap pears that we have approved of all the dispositions of these regulations. It is divided into two parts the first concerning sailing vessels, and the other steamers. The English navy lias been long occupied for its own use with a regulation of this kind for steamers, collisions of which are both frequent and dangerous. In France, nothing has been done in that respect. Rumoured Retirement of Marshal Soult.-A letter from Castres announces that the Marquis de Mor-nay has just arrived at Soultberg. If report can be be lieved, the marquis, who was at Beauvais for the Council-General, quitted that town precipitately, in consequence of a pressing invitation from the Minister of War. The old marshal, who declares himself exceedingly fatigued with the struggles and difficulties which he has to en counter, particularly from Algeria, and who is besides tormented with a chronic cough, again talks of withdraw ing from office but, as to withdraw at his age is to give up public affairs for ever, he is unwilling, he says, to take such a determination without consulting his family. The ' France ' discredits the report of the Marshal's retirement. Visit of the French Princes to the Queen of Spain.-On the 3rd inst., the Duke and Duchess de Ne mours and the Duke d'Aumale, after visiting Biarritz and St Jean de Luz, arrived at the bridge which unites France with Spain. There the Princes alighted from their carriages and crossed the bridge on foot, accompa nied by Count Bresson, the Euench Ambassador, the Pre fect of the Department of the Lower Pyrenees M. Aze-vedo Gen. Boyer, Aid-de-Camp of the Duke de Ne mours Col. Jamin, Aid-de-Camp of the Duke d'Aumale, c. On reaching the Spanish territory they were com plimented by the Duke de San Carlos, a nobleman of the Queen's Bedchamber, and Senor Arana, Master of the Ceremonies of the Palace, in the name of the Queen, and by Senors Olozabal and Aldamar, in that of the province of Guipuzcoa. Gen. Barrenechea, commander of the pro vince, received the French Princes at the head of the troops with all the honours due to their rank. The people, on their side, loudly cheered them. The august party slept at Tolosa, and entered Pampeluna on the following day. Accounts from Bayonne of the 8th state that they had returned to that town in good health, highly satisfied with the reception given them, not only at Pampeluna, but along the whole of their journey in Spain. The Duke d Aumale travelled back through the valley of Bastan on horseback. Future Residence of Don Carlos.-The ' Consti-tutionnel' says - The Marquis de Villafranca is hourly expected at Paris. He comes to solicit, it is said, autho risation for Don Carlos and the Princess to proceed to Rome, the climate of Bourges being injurious to the health of the Princess, who was born in Brazil. If M. de Villafranca does not obtain passports for Italy, he is directed to demand from the French Government per mission for Don Carlos and the Princess to fix their resi dence in such town of the south as they may choose. The Pofe's Sentiments towards France.- The ' Journal des Debats ' states that on the occasion of the celebration of the fetes of St Louis in the French church at Rome, the Pope and a considerable number of cardinals attended. M. Rossi, the French Plenipotentiary, opened the door of the carriage at the church door, and thanked his Holiness for the honour he had deigned to confer on the French church. The Pope, in a voice so loud that lie could be heard by the crowd assembled around him, replied that he had great pleasure in performing the pious duty, and that he should be happy that that expression of his senti ments were known to the King of the French. Alter prayers, his Holiness retired to an adjoining apartment, where the ceremony of kissing his toe was gone t noug l by all the natives of France that presented themselves. GERMANY. Riots in Brunswick.-Advices from Brunswnk of the 3rd inst. state that clnrin# thtee consecutive evenin
I m THE EXAMINER. Prnsperjtui or any advertisement in the newspapers.. The case remains to be decided. It naturally excited much interest among the amateurs ami .mists, who crowded the Court, awaiting anxiously the issue.' - i police wotvsnif-sfitBET. FoftTt ivE-TBt,L!NO.-SaMtndk Car tvason Wednes day charged with having pretended to fell the fortunes of Several young girls. Sus tit Schofield, a pretty girl, about 16 years of age, went about a month ago to the lodgings of'the prisoner, in Webber-ijquare, Shoreditch, and requested to have Iter for tune told, Mrs. Carr produced a pack of cards, which the shuffled, and divided into several parcels, and said, the witness would have some tr able very soon, blit it-would end to iter satisfaction-that she would be married before the was 19, and would have nine chClIren, all bnjfs ! !•-that her husband would b, a tall thin young man, of a darkish complexion. Mary Bell, another good-looking girl, Who appeared to be about the same age, said, that she was with Susan Schofield when she had her for.une told, as was also an other girl. Mrs. Carr told all their fortunes, after going through a deal of ceremony with the cards. She told this gi.ri also that she would have great many children, all of whom would be very like their, father ! !-The girl paid Ss. for telling three of them their fortunes. Elizabeth I food, another fortune-teller, was also ex amined before the same Magistrate. The prisoners were convicted as rogues and vagabonds, and committed to the Home of Correction till lie Sessions. ACCIDENTS, OFFENCES, Sa. . The Walpole Tndiaraan went ashore on Sunday at ten, A. M. off Margate though the ship is totally lost, the whole of tine Officers, the crew and passengers, got safe on tthorc. Mr. Sutton, the Chief Officer, had his arm badly fractured by the wheel, ou the ship's striking. The greater part of tbc cargo is expected to be saved. Capt. Bidders ton, of the Parthian slttop of war, lately, murdered o board that vessel w hen getting under weigh from Plymouth to Corunna, was a native of Dover, in his i'UIh y ar, aud universally esteemed. James Smith, the MaSterVmatf, by whose hand he fell, is.ahnut 25 years oY age, and son of a British Planter resident at Santa Crus. .Revenge for being dis-rated by Capt. Balderston, was the cause of this wicked act. The pistol which he used was loaded with two halls, one'of which was etrt in four pieces. After loading the pistol lie sut dawn coolly to dinner, observing to his messmates that it was the last time kg should dine with them and striking his hand violently against the able, he exclaimed, f'li know what f have been div-rated for, and will be il-ra-d if I don't bf revenged ! He then rushed on deck, and shot Capt. 3al Jerston, who survived only an hour and a half, atul in excruciating pain. The marderer was instantly feiged by l.ieut. Stevenson, and conveyed on board of the-j Salvador del Miiady. So far from expressing contrition, ' he declared that nothing hot hurry of passion prevented hit loading another pistol,with which it was his intention to have dispatched Lletit. Stevenson also, as he hnd only had half his revenge.-Re was tried on Monday, aud found gullfy of the murder, making no defence. Early on Sunday morning, the body of a respectably dressed man Was found in the road lending from the bot tom of Gray's-Iiia-laue road to Camden-town. It proved to he Mr, Pester, a grazier, who resided in Cross-street, Portland-street. He left home after dinner, as he said, for a walk, and is supposed to have died f'rorq the incle-gfteirc? of tU weather. - '-I jbe.high wind, yesterday week blew down one of t h f Gentry boxes in St. James's Park, near Duke-stceet. Tim ccntinel was in it at the time,, and was so much bruised that he was taken to the Hospital with little hopes recovery. BIRTHS. Hast week a butcher's wife, in Banff, Scotland, was de livered of three children, two boys and a girl, who, wiui the mother,.are all in a fair way. MARRtAGES. On Tuesday last, Mr. Robert Owilt, of Chelsea, 2d son of the Rev. Robert Gwilt, Rector of Ickliilgliams, All Saints, and Nt. James's, Suffolk, to Mary, eldest daughter of the late Henry Williams, Esq. of Nassau, New Providence. Yesterday se'onight, at St. George, Hanover-square, F. II. Naylor, Esq. of IVelbeck-strcet, to Maria Mealey, widow of l.ieut. Col. Ridgeway Mealey, late of the Mad ras Establishment. 1 On the 20th mst. at MarylebonC Church, by the Rev. Dr. Hall, Canon of Christchurch, Henry Drury, Esq. Eel low of King's College, Cambridge, to Caroline, second daughter of A. W. Taylor, Esq. of Bar hara House, Herts, DEATHS. Yesterday week, at six o'clock, at his house io Ilert-ford-street, the Earl of Liverpool, in the 80th year of his age the immediate cause of his death was a disorder in his bowels. His Lordship was the son of Colonel Charles Jenkijtson, the second son of Sir Robert Jeokinson, of Jledlington, in Oxfordshire and lu , the year 1 89, by the extinction of the elder branches of the family, he succeeded to the title of Baronet and to the faintly estale r In the year 1786, Sir Charles Jenkinson was created Lord Hawkesburv, and in 1706, Earl of Liverpool. During.a considerable part of Mr. Pitt's long administra tion, bis Lordship was President tsf the Board of Trade and his acquaintance with the commercial interest of the country, ar.ii with subjects of political economy, has brei displayed in numerous Tracts, the greater part of which, however, were written on subjects creating a temporary interest, rather than illustrative of general principles. His Lordship through his life was more remarkable as a po litician in the Closet than as an orator in the Senate, For many years he was generally supposed to be high in the confidence of his Majesty. . By his death, the offices of Collector of the Customs Inwards for the Port of London, and Clerk of the Veils in Ireland, have become vacant. His Lordship was tw ice married, and has left two sous. Lord flawkesbury, now Earl of Liverpool, and the linn. Charles Jenkinson. Suddenly, on Tuesday so'imight, at his house, at Ted-dingtoo, in the 66th year of his age, the Earl of Atliloue. He is succeeded in his titles and estates by Frederick Vis count Aughrim, a lutmtic. ' Ou Tuesday se'uniglit, in Dublin, Theobald M'Kennt, Esq. He was a political writer of much celebrity, and enjoyed fvom Government a pension of 2001. per ami. I or past services. A few days since, at an advanced age, Andrew Shaw well known at Portsmouth, for upwards of 30 years, al Idll-sticker, iit which employ, by industry and frugality, he amassed more than 000!'. He was a soldier at the battle of Mjnden. Sunday, Mr. Thomas, butcher, in Lisle-street. He was perfectly well on Saturday, mid the following day lr in a fit, out of which he apparently recovered, but ' iustantly seized with a shivering fit and expired ' a middle-aged man a very temperate liver. HewM Printed and published byJoHvIIuKT, at the Ex t sit h Office, 15, BCathfort Buildings, Strand.-Prise ij
-3 0 l iVo 22,813. Pi LONDON. MOW DAY. JANUARY 2, 1843. C T BAM to HAVRE in lieu of the PHENIX.-W,UJAM WWOETT. Oaptela F x Loudon T er day J aimarjW,,a lEight, a.m. Friday, January fl jnday, January 89 v __ _ I Batten and Edwards, P om Hayu. Thursday, Jan, 5 Min Sunday, Jan. 18 5? 0 iX 1R Wednesday, Jan. 25 XTOTICE i hereby given, that a SPECIAL AN GENERAL MEETING ef the PROPRIETORS of tbe LON-'NO HAM RAILWAY COMPANY wltThe held tithe ndon, Monday, the 16th day of January now lse ~ . to tide. ay. In. u 66. Lower Thames street Hore' Baekina onoea. 18, Strand, und 14. Bocfcler bury James Hartley and G kj The City of Dublin Steam Paci powerful atrein ' ea i for Cr -January, or Aider Crutohed friar 44, Re ft nt-etreet, Pi TEAM for CORK, calling at PLYMOUTH.-7 1 City of Dublin Steam Packet Company's aple W•fc 1 THE LEEDS. Captain R. WxiXli COft.v, call inn at PLYMOUTH, on Saturday moral 7 t Eight o'clock. Passengers can embark at Si. Xi lerman Stairs. below the Tower.-Offices, 1C, Jol Company's splendid and in R. WILLIAMS, will ling, 7 th of 'atherine s _ -.-. ---- Offices, 1C, John-itreet, i PtcoidUlr Dublin 8team Wharf, Iroatat j. Agent in Cork.O.Lefebum, Esq.. Liwer Merchaut's-auay, Smt scut for to any ? art of town. Au heavy Roods, carriages, K r ea, foe.for shipment, to be sent to the Dublin SUvn-wharf, Ironvate. adjoining h Tower. A sylum for female orphans, wet-ralB.t.r-MIdrre-rora, Umbeth.-A QUARTERLY COURT of Ik. Guardian of lltl. Charity will be held .t Ih. limitation on Thul . dra neit.Jrauur 5th, ,t Twelve o'clock preeiMlr.oa Mineral butinew. W.TJaVIKS, Sec. K OYAL FREEMASONS' SCHOOL for FE MALE CHILDREN.-A QUARTERLY OKNERAL COURT ©i inis Institution will be holdcn at the 8c hool-hooi'j, WestmiHPter-r ad. on Thursday, the 18th day of January. b'Atar t, at twelve o'clock nrecieely. FRANCIS CREW, Secretary, January 1, 1U . ,7. Lamb'a Conduit-elrcet. B ritish orphan asylum, CJm ham-riw. that the ANNUAL OR-Nr.iiAL MEETING, and Thirty-flm Half-yearly Election, will take tiie LoiuionTnyern. Bieliopwate-i tre t,on Monday, January 16, 1342, when Six Children will be elected. The Ballot will com mence at Twelve o'clock, vn 1 tbe door of the room will be closed at Three precisely. After thd Election the general b sinefs will be tran-, JOHN I AVI8. A.M , Hon.Secretary. Applications to be made at the Office, No. II, Abchurch-lane, c . wodviesdayR, from Eleven to Four o'clock or to thu Assistant Decre-2S JW t r, Mr. J. Leach, 11. President street East, Goe-Well-road. T he puovident clerks mutual RKNBPIT ASSOCIATION and BBNKVOT.BNT FUND, 60, Kin. W iIlian -stroti, London-brMf, December iMt. Notiee Is hereby irfv.n, that the SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL jlBETINOof the MEMBERS of the Benefit Department of this As tor at on will bo held at these officer, on Monday Evening, the 16th ■Mi-_ naaoment and General'committee, will be filled up. 11 rr. esnar.oe of a rrqnitftlon to me, as Ch man of this DON and BIRRING Euston Hotel, Lond _. , t 9 n .'xt rnsulng, at Twelvo,o'cloc . precisely, for ths purpose of consl donng the xpedtency of authorising tbe Directors to apply to Par-liament in the ensuing Session for an Act to make a Branch Rail way from the Ha n Line In the parish of Blisworth, In the countyof Northampton, to the city of Pe' erborouKh, and to adopt such mea sures as may be necss arv to effect that object. 9J £411RQLYN. Chairman 0f tbe Board ef JOSEPH F. LBD3AM, Deputy Chairman Directors, By order. R. CREED, Secretary. OffiCf, Button Station, Dec. 81, 1848, E dinburgh and Glasgow railway.-NKW STOCK .-QUARTER SHARE8.-Tbe THIRD CALL, Min, TWO POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS per SHARE. Mb due. In Ibe_E.Mtl.Uori. of Ike SbnrrhoMen, on Tunday. Jutnary Jfth, 181V. Inlerem at th. rate ol live percent, will be chirred, from the chore dele, on the .mount of the GUI unpaid and interact Kbam 0W bf th Conipu ' T l #• vatrtr r t oa all Calb paid In The I'ronrlttora will plcaee ta obeerve that tbe receipt for all the AW.-SOLICITORS' BILLS.-A London So-I t Call! eubseriuent to tha flret tiiU.t be given by tbe Bankere on the E'Up. U 'r evidence of payment being ndmlreibb. Scrip may UiWbed by forwerdlni to thl. Office tbe receipt for the Hret Call. wlll 1 r ® 1111 In arrrar of ana or both of the Sret end eecend Calb. .are requeeted to make immediate payment nf them with internet. H. G. WRIGHT, Sec. Edinburgh Md Qbaaow Hallway Office. Qlaagnw. Pan. t. 180. . TTNIVER8ITY COLLEGE, London. FA-CULTYofARTSand LAWS. The LECTUBBS on the claaeea In thle fuculty will be RE6UHEO on Tueeday, the loth af January, 1813. Such a dlvieirn of the subject b made in mostclavees ac enable, a student to enter advantageouely at thin part of the came. OFORGE LONG. A.M . Oem. Dec. 1841. CHARLES C. ATKINSON. Secretary tolheCouncil. XITILSON'S SCOTTISH ENTERTAINMENTS. ▼ ? -At tho Music HallajStore-street, THIS EVENING, Jt-nuary 8, at Eight o'clook, Mr. WILSON will give his Entertainment, HHiprieing th ADVENTURES of PR INCF. CHARLES, with the illustrative Jacobite soncs. Pianoforte. Mr. Land.- 1 Tickets, 2s. reserved seats, 2 . 6d. private fc x s for six, I5s. for eight, £1. RAND BALL, Crowu and Anchor Tavern, VJT Strand.-Mr. CALDWELL beg to announce that his SE COND grand PLAIN DRESS BALL this season will take place In the great room of the al ove Tavern TO-MORROW, January 3. - Tickets. 3s. each, to be had at Mr, OaMwall's academy for dancing. S' , Dean street, Soho bar of the Crown and Ancii mnd rtfi#' r rlncipal muslc sell re. Mr. Csldwell will be happy'to give instruc-ons to any party in a few easy lesson , so thsTthey may take part in the quainllee so often danced at thiafo tive apa on. Terms four they may take part •f lo ury n t. hi Six d'tto'k red ely_ At this meeting vacancies, which hnva neeumfi kn 4 ,h Board of ml Oonr' Management and General i H lion, vigvtcd by seven members, this meeting is mads sjrecinl, to np poiat a Committee to revise rules. ... . GEORGE THOMAS, Chairman. N.fi. Tho Annual General Meeting of the B nevolent D partnunt will be held on the 6ih of February next, of wnioh due notiee wili be given. OYAL SANTIAGO MININO COMPANY.-Notice l hereby given, that the GENERAL MEETING of Iks HHAREIIOLDEhS will be Paid at th office of the company on W ,• Hu driay, the 4th of January next, at One o'clock precisely, when the directors will make their report and d c1are a d.v dend. 8 . 1 road-street-building , December 16, iwt. CJMIF, Court of Directors of tbsTsT KATHA-1 RINE DOCK COMPANY do hereby give retire, that _ GENERAL HALF-YEARLY MEETING of the PROPRIETORS will b held at the Dock-house, Towur-hill, in the county ef Middle sex , on Tu'aday. thr nth day of January next, at Twelve o'clock at E wn, for the purpose of declaring a DIVIDEND on the Capital Stock of the Company, for the Half-Year mding tbe 31st instant, when the accounts t f receipts and disbursement of the said Com-eany, for tbe year ending th 3l t Instant, will be laid before the proprietors, which accounts will be ready for examination or in erection, by auch Proprietors, on and after the 3d day of January next. Tiie ' looks of the Company will close on Saturday, the 24th Initent, and open on Monday, the 23d day of January next. By order of the Court, JOHN HALL, Secretary. Ft. Katharine Deck-house, Dec. 20, 1642. N.B. The chair wili be token at One o'eiock precPely. A nglo Mexican mint office, d, New Hroad-streot. Lonc o°. December 17, 1642. Notice is hereby given, that a SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders of the Angle Mexican Mint Company will be held at th Office, ou Wednesday, the 4th ?f January next, to take into con-• ileratiort the expediency of raising additional capital for the pur poses of the Company. The chair will be taken at two o'clock precisely. O. B. LONSDALE, 8#c TH SUITABLE CORPORATION.-The Court V. J of Proprietors of this corporation have declar d a DIVIDEND of GNU SHILLING and SIXPENCE, a SHARE, which will be PAID Air. Till'.- office, Guildhall buiHings, London, on the 10th of Jap wry institnt. OOUTH AUSTRALIAN C0MPANY-D1VI DEND.-The Director of the Roath Australian Cerepany giy notice, that the HALF YEAR'S DIVIDEND, at the rate of Four pe rent, per Annum on the paid up Capital, due ilst instant, will l e PAYABLE at the Company's Officea, on Monday, January 16, 1843. and Every subsequent day, between the hours of Eleven and Three. The Transfer Books of the Company will be closed from sd to 9th January, 4 private ieisons at any hour convenisTTf, 10s. A practical quadrille . Frid T •reftinge, from EUht Jf R. HEN RY RUS8ELL S SECOND VOCAL D . i.vLR. ENTERTAINMENT will take place at tbe Hanover-sqaare paid, but the adver-. be thorouxhly satisfied of the Integrity and ability of the applicant.-Applications to be made in wilting, to A. Z., at Mr. Bienkarit s, law bookseller. J9, Chancery-lane, London, with real name and address age, qualifications, terms, and references. GECRETARY WANTED.-The Projector of a Public Company, now in course of formation, require a SE CRETARY, who must be of first-rate address, thoroughly conver sant with business, and of highly respectable connections. He will be required to invest £1,00J in shares. Salary to commence In a few months , about £ W0 per annum at first, and increasing with the suc cess of the undertaking.-Address pre-paid to C. F. Messrs. Risley and Chappell, soliciters, Quality-court, Chancery-lane. T O PARENTS,-A Solicitor one of a firm in extensive practice in the immediate viciaity of the Temple ha a VACANCY for an ARTICLED PUPIL, who would beard with tbe advertiser at his private residence at the west-end of town. Pre mium for the five years, £409. The most unexceptionable references would be given and required.-Address, C. Fn care of Messrs. Richard , law bookseller . 194, Fleet-street. T O BARENTS and GUARDIANS.-WANTED, a respectable Youth, about fifteen or sixteen, as an APPREN TICE to an old-established SUROEON-DKNTI6T. The pupil would have unusual advantages for excelling in his profession, being under t e constant superintendence of the advertiser, who is himself a thorough practical man, both in the surgical and mechanical part but he w'11 be required to board and lodge with his friends. A mo derate premium,-For further particulars apply by letter pre-paid , with rrttl name and address to ▲. B Mr. Pollock, surgeon, S6, Hat-ton-garden. F RIDAY-STREET,-To be LET, or the LEASE to be SOLD of capital PREMISES, most desirably situate, being in the centre of the Linen and Silk Markets comprising an extensive and light warehouse on the ground floor, large warehouse on the first floor, with parlour and kitchen, drawing room and bed rooms owr, large dry cellars in thv basement, See. o.-Further par ticulars may be had of Toplis and Son, No. 16, St. Paul's Church yard S TAMPOftD-HILL.-'To be LET on Lease, by Messrs. WIN9TANLEY.-A commodious detached RESI DENCE, suited for a resoectable family, pleasantly situate as above, containing seven bed chambers, three sitting rooms, kitchen and office?, with good stabling, coachhouse, excellent garden, lawn and ffreenhouse. The whole weU supplied with spring and soft water.-Por terms and cards to view, apply at No. 10, Paternoster-row or to Mr, John Combe, solicitor. No. 9, Staple-lug, Holborn, TTALUABLE BUILDING GROUND.-Several ▼ PLOTS of GROUND on the Marquees of Exeter's estate in ie vicinity of tjie Strand, are - -E DUCATION.-Term £5 per Quarter, in-eluting bo rd, lMtraettoa either for profeeelonel or neer-til eitumtlon. ,clolhin , ctUtaaMT.uid er.rr extra. NO,raraUoM. moot unexceptionable reftwtww to puente end gn.rdtua can be xlr.naa to the treatment of tte poplli, liberal Ulet. and eratem of eduction. Garde mar ha had at reete'i Coffee-hooH, lT7 L Floet-• tract, London, hall Aeadem between Twa o the traelnieat of tha puplla. liberal diet, and •yetetn of Cerde may ha had at rtoie'a Coffee-hotue, l Ffoet-loa, where llr. TW Y MMffi. the Proprietor of Winton-bt, Kirk by Stephen. Weetnioreland, may ha eeen daily, relye and Twa o'aloah. , PUBLICATIONS. NBW SERIES FOR THE NEW YEAR. ILLUSTRATED. rpHE MONTHLY MAGLAZINfe and LIBERAL A MISCELLANY.-Arraneemente her Inn been made with writer, ofemleeiee, thle oM-a.tahll had Marina wUl henceforth furnlih Baers, Tale . andCriliclawi. in accordance with the eplrtl oftha age. Illustrations will be diran with each Number, and tha prlea btlng re diced to la. 6d it will come within tho roach of ayery pereon de-■ Irons af poewMinar an eotertaimn miscellany. Sherwood and Go., Patarnoater-row. Coutbwts tom J.iruaar i s from tha same family. Accomplishment! by maatera af amlnaaee on terms equally reaaooabla. A teacher wanted who understands the ireaeral Duslnese of a school alia a half boarder.-Gards ol address, a, Little Britain and Mr. Oram's,n, Charinc-cross. L anguages.-Hamiltonian systbm. -WINTER CLASS BE.-lea, Reyent-streeL- A pupil will aaqulra mere in flee or ill weak an thie eyatem of the speaking end rueful knowledge of a lengnage than In two yean on the old.''-Edinburgh Be.low. Thle la the areateet improvement of the age. Westminster Raflew.-M. D'UEAtBR. M.A., uslsted by Foreign Professors, sad a Graduate of Otford, is now forming ADULT CLASSES for tho Oreeh, and English languages,-I tended within ten inllee.-1 8. Bankrupt Banka .... I. Nursery Rhyme far Sncklag Politic!! 10. Art-Uniooe 11. Ptm ~ ... . Jerco Pennlleeee 11. Tho Patrician's Daughter 13. Fact and Plgarea. MiscoUanaou Notices. Books, Drama, Music, cc. French, German, Italian, Spanish, tuition. Schools and families it-mt-street. Library, lb, lloliee-street. B ULL'S NEW SYSTEM FOR FAMILIES AND BOOK SOCIETIES. Families paying £8 6a. tbe year have all the New and Standard Works they order, twelve eolumee at a time in town, or twenty-four in the country. Cntaloguee and boxes free of pipenee and two guineas' worth of the new beeki to keep at the end of each year. _ Societies can subscribe at the rate of' 14s. per member only. The new past eataloeuee, with full partkmtara, cant gratis sad post free. -Apply to Mr, Ball, librarian, as shore, T O ADVERTISERS.-'the Firit Number of the ILLUSTRATED POLYTECHNIC REVIBW a Journal de-voted to Science, the Fine Arte, and .Literature , which will be pub lished on the 7th of January, 1643, will be circulated to the extent of 30 i OO eepiec, aa i presents a first-rate medium for advertiseraent .-Office, 143, Strand. D AILY LIST of PRICES of the various FUNDS and SHARES in which'bueineM is chiefly trane-at'ted a compaSned with such remark as the frequent rhange of cir Hi~ i Ridg 1. Sir Robert Peel 8. Athena and the Athenians 3. Line from GBiensch!ceger 4. The nirroer'e Fireside, Illus-traten by Zeitter. Corn-law Tales, No. 1 6. China and the Tea Thiugs 0 Lord Braugham and David -Hume on Miracles 7. Song from Beranger . _ In an early number will be introduced No. I of M Money, a Novel, i by Daniel Hardeaatle, jun., with Hluatratione. EDITED BY THOMAS HOOD, B8Q. ILLUBTRATBD BY l-EECH. The January Number for 1843. of M w OLBURN'S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINB AND HUMORIST. Contains the followingInterentlng Article private coir -r of the late c cumstancee may render necessary to be obtained of Samuel broker. Stock Bi change, and 49, Threadeedle-ttreet in will NMENT will take place at tbe Hanover-sqaare Rooms, on Thursday evening, the 12th of January. Several new com positions will be introduced, namely The Dream of the Reveller, Thf National Melodies of America, ''The Young Soldier, ' several new Indian and Prairie hobkh, Jkc.. and, by desire, The Maniac, and Th Ship on Fire. Tickets 2s. Od.each reserved seats 4t. each reserved family seals, to admit four, KM. • d. each, to be had of Messrs. Cramer, Addison, and Heale, 201, Regent-etreet and of all the prin cipal raiiEic-sellers. The new Fanda pianoforte, manufactured by Joseph Kirkman and Bon ft, willb uaedon this occasion. fi 'or particulMwapply tAMaftt ... Iccadilly or to Mr. 8ydney Smirkc, 24, Berkoley-Bqtiure. o the Marquess of Kxettr's estate in will be permanent y oularged frrm fortf-eUhtto sixty four colui wal rdt'WailhTtu r , 27, Dofion-xtrw t, tu barytas Nwlw rlbws to '•sr aj Smirkc, 24, Berkoley-sqeure. not able, conveniently, to procure it through a loc l newivei E XETER-HALL, TICKETS for the LJ may be had at Keith, Pruwse, and Co.' , 46. Cheapside. Evening New RrOHd-streuf, Dec. 23, 1843. r NioN BANK DAVID M'LAREN, Manager. 01 1 TTNI0N BANK of AUSTRALIA, 38, V J Broad i tr t, London. December SO, 1842. Not co In hMrebv given, that a SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of the PROPRIETORS of this Hank will be held here on Monday, the td of January, at One o'clock precisely, wh n the Directors will make a stavrii- nt of the Bank's affaiss up to the 31st instant, and de clave a DIVIDEND. By order of the Beard, SAMUEL JACKSON, f ocreiary. E nglish and Scottish law, fire and LIFE ASSURANCE, and LOAN ASSOCIATION.-Offlcee, No. 147, Strand, London and 111 Princee-street, Edinburgh. Sut-scribvd Capital £i,KVi,ooo. This Association embraces every description of risk, contingent upon Life nnd Fire. A liberal system of Loan. An exten ive lenal connection, a Direction, and Proprietary com pos d of all clas'cs. A uniou of the Engli h and Erotfh system of Aseurance. For table of rates of asMirunce, annuiPea, nnd endowments, crany oihcr informntmn, apply at the Offices or to the Agents of the Ae-•ooiation. J. B, PIDQEON, Actuary. OCOT1T9H UNION INSURANCE COMPANY. IO Instituted in 1824, and incornoMtcd by Royal Charter. Loinroit Board. Charlc Ba'four, t?q. I Jokn Kingston, Esq. J. Gordon Duff, E q. j Divle Robert on, Krq. Rehrrt Murray, Esq. 1 H. F.Sandeman, Esq, R. O 'verson. Esq. John Small, Esq. Robert iillesple, F q. Daniel Stoddart, E q. James' codeo. Esq. I _ 8wt .er and Macke xie. Beq.. Manager. Mod rate Pates both for Fire and Life Assurance, liberal conditions, and unquestionable pveurity, are the distinguhhing feature of this Co.'porntion. Speciul risks reasonably rated. Tablet of rates and •Vf ry intern atien may be bad of the Secretary, at the ohiot London office, 419, W est 8tmrd, or at the city branch office, 78. Kir g Wil liam-street Manpion hou?e. F. G. SMI TH, Sec. ottish l mon Office. 449, West Strand, London. NITKD KINGPOM LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY. 8, Waterloo-place, Pall-mall, London. F teblished by Act Of Parliament in IBM. Division of Profits amonic the Assured. Honorary P BaiDMTs. Lari Somers 1 ord Viscount Falkland Lord llphinstone Lord Belhaveu and Stenton. u Bari of Frrol Karl of Courtown Karl Leven and Melville F fi of Norbury Lari of Stair Dl RIOTOUS. Ja . Stuart, Esq., Chairman. H. De Castro, Eeq., Deputy-Chairman, fiamuel Anderson, Esqr Hamilton Blair Atarne, Esq. KdwardBoyd, Esq., Resident E. l.-mnox Boyd, Esq., Assistant Resident Charles Down??, Esq. Fecketary-Patrick MacIntyre, Keq. Tide C impan , established by Act ot Parliament, affords the meat perfect security in an umpte puid-up Capital, and in th great success which has attended it since Its commencement in 1834- In 1841, the Company declared n addition to Ih- Sharehaldersof oik-half of their fitock, and also added £2 per cent. p r annum from the date of the policies u those parties wno had Insured with Profits. The Premiums neverihfks are on the most moderate scale, and only a moiety need be irdd for the krst five years, where the Insurance isfer Life. T e amount of bonus added to policies since the commencement of the Company in March, 1834, to tho 3lst December, i64u, is as follows -. £rHq., 1J_ . _ Charles Graham, £sq. F. Charles Maitland, Esq. William RaUtoii, Esq. John Ritchie, Eso. F. H. Thomson, Lsq. Sum Time Bum added .Assured. Assured. to Policy. Slo.nou o Yrs.liiMlhs.l1361M.4-J. JJW 4 Years, gn o Burn Time Assured. Assured. £1,000 3 Years ims I Year turn added to Policy £60 20 Kvsry information will b afforded on application to ths Resident Directors, Edward Boyd, Esq., and B. Lennox Boyd, Esq af No. 8, Waterloo-nines, pall-mall, London. Frederick Hak Thomson,Esq., surgeon, 46, Bernera-street, atteads t the Office daily, abaut half-past Two o'clock. rpo tlie PUBLIC.-The COMMITTEE ot the Jl ART-UNION of LONDON hav-j hid their attention directed by numerous correspondents to som rec.nt announcements for the formation of Art-Union in tbe Metropolis and various provincial towns, professing to restmblo in prirciple this Society, but which are. in reality, commercial Piteculations for Individual berefit. TJ ey therefore dtem it their duty, in order to prevent misapprehension- by which serious mischief might bo done to a valuable mean of edvanc-inz tbe Arts-to 6tat' broadly that thi Society was establ'hhed soDly with the di lnt rcsted view ot di eminatinK a love cf tbe Tine Arts throughout the British Empire-of legitimately promoting their pro gress, and elevating the public taate. No gentleman connected with its management has the slightest personal interest in the purchns of Works of Art, or can possibly derive any advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, therefrom, so that there is no subordinate end of an irdiviriual nature to serve. Tits Committee cannot but view with distrust any scheme which, under the guise of such a principle as this, seeks to assume for indi viduals, actuated by pecuniary motive , an it fluence which might plHce Art and Arti'ts in a state of thraldom likely to be productive of most serious consequence . Tho Society' vronpectus and all other information may be ob tained at the office, 4,Trafalgar squarc, Charing-cros , and of any of tho local secretaries throughout the country. Rubseribtr of the cur rent year will receive, in addition to the chance of obtaining a valu able work of u't, a Line Engraving from Sir A. Caleotl'a Picture, Raffuollo andnhe Fornarlnn, by Mr. L. Blocks, which is in a rtate of considerable f orwardntss. An early subscription 1r invited. PiiBSiDBirr-H. R. H. the Duke of CAMRRIDGB. Vice Pbesidbrt- 1 The Most Noble the Marquers of NORTH AMPTON, P.R.8. Committee of Management. Henry G. Atkinson, Esq., F 0.8. j Henry Thomas Hope, Esq. le ' ' Charles Barry, Esq-. K. A. Thomas fSsll, E q., P R.8. John Briiton, Esq., F.8.A. B. B. Cabbell, Esq., F.R.S., F.8.A. William Col lard. Esq. Robert Dickson, E q., M.D., F.L.9. C, P. Dimond, E q , Treasurer Thomas L. Donaldson. Fmi. William Ewart, Esq., M.P. JohnS. Ga-koin, Esq. George Godwin, Esq., F R.S F.8.A. Thomas Griffith. Esq., M.A Sir Beniamin Hall. Bsrt.,M.P. E. Hawkins, Esq., F.R.8., F.8.A. Henry Haward, Esq. William LeuL E q William C. Macready, Esq. T. P. Matthew, Esq. T. Moore, E q., F.S.A, George Morant, E6q. George John Morant, Esq, Richard Morris, Esq. John Noble, Esq., F.S.A. Lewis Pocock, Esq.. F.S.A. Tlie Right Honourable the Lord Pradhoe W'. J. Smith, Esq. Arthur W T . Tooke. Esq., M.A. R. Zoueh S. Troughton. Esq. The Very Reverend tho Dean of Westminster Samuel W'ilaon, Esq,, Alderman Edan-d Wyndbam, Esq. Tecember 3te 1842. P URSUANT to a Decree of the Hi h Court ef Chancery, made In a cause the Marquess nf Hnrtford against Lord Lowth. r the ANNUITANTS and LEGATEES of the Mont . Noh'e FRANCIS CHARLES, late Marque of HERTFORD, I deer ased who died on or about the 1st dav of March, 1842 , are forih I With to come in end MAKE OUT THEIR CLAIMS to such Annuities I and Lf'cacies before Andrew H-nry Lynch. Esq., one of the Mas-I furs of the suid Court, ut his chambers in Southampton-building . Chancery-lane, London, or ia default thereof they will be excluded the benefit of the paid Decree. CAPRON, W ELD, BRABANT, and CAPRON, Paville-place, New Burlington-strttt. Plain itt 's salicitors. P URSUANT to a Decrre of the High Court, of Chancery, made in a cause The Marquess of Hertford against Lord l.ewther. the CREDITORS of the Most Noble FRANCIS CHARLK6, Jatr. Merquess of HERTFORD, deceased whodied on rr about the 1st day of March, 1642 , are forthwith to comeia and PROVE their DEBTS before Andrew Henry Lynch, Esq., one of the Marteis of the said Court, at his Chambers, in flouthampton-buildings. Chancery laii , London or. In default thereof, they will be excluded the benefit of the Raid Decree. CAPRON, WELD, BHABANT, and CAPRON, Saville-place, Now Burlington-strei't, Plaintiff s Solicitors. P URSUANT to a Decree of the Hisjh Court of Chancery, made in certain causes, pending in the said Court, entitled respw i l Hartsroll .wr Colvin, and • Hartwell GEO. GODWIN. F.R.8. F.S.A., LEWIS POCOCK, P.8.A. Honorary I Secretaries. l f ETR0P0L1TAN LIFE ASSURANCE SCf--iv.l. CIETY, No. 8, Princei-street, Bank. John Allcard, Esq. Richard Low Beck, Esq. Edmund C. Baiton, E q. •ir Wm. Clay, Bart., M.P. James Dawson, E q. Thomas Fowler, Esq. W illiam 8torrs Pry, Eeq. Robert Grant, V D1RICTWR8. BenJ. Hawes, Jun., Psq., M.P. John Laurence. Eeq. r William Josh. Lescher, Esq. Josvph Pros. Maubert, Estj. Joshua Scholvtield, Esq., M ,P. Henry Sturt, Esq. John Taylor, Esq. _ t Esq. George Vaughan, Esq. The Directors hereby give notice to Members whose Premiums fall ■Auv on the 5th of January nest, that ths same mutt be paid within 30 day from that date. The premium Hre payable yearly, half-yearly, or quarterly, on the Ath of January, 5th of April, 5th of July, and 5th of October, either of which several days constitutes the commencement of the year to Members. Persons, therefore, desirous ef entering the Society, as Members, on the Mb of January next, should appear or lodge thfir pr u-osals at the Office on or before that day. no various are th plans now before the public for effecting As surance on Life, it may, at first sLht, seem difficult to make choice between them. As, however, all prudent offices make a considerably higher charge in thv unuual premium than experience has hitherto shown to be necessary, but ditt.r in the mode of dis posing of tho surplus, or profit, the following classification may be made 1. Proprietary Offices, where all the surplus from premiums and othtr profits ii divided, exclusively, amongst the Share or Stock bolder . 2. Offices where the same Is divided in various proportions between • d Stock holders and the Assured. ..... 3. Office of a strictly mutual character, where the whole of the i MjNitsbl distributed amongst tin Assured only. The Metropolitan, which is oi the last class, wts established in 1835, and although no paid agents for town or country have at any time been employed, nor any expensive system of advertising resorted ' u advantages have boon so w ll appreciated by the public, tniit the annual prvmiuins already exceed £41,900. ■■ In consequence of the prosperous stale of the 8ociety s affairs, the Annual Premiums of Members of Five Years' standing have been reduced Fsrty-twoand a Half per Cent. A plan of the Society, with tables ot rates, may be obtained on ap plication at the Office. _ . RICHARD HEATH FI ELD, Superintendent. Pnncc's-itrest, Rank, Dec. 14. 1842. Kelly, thuCRKD ______ ■ 8ARKIK-L Into of Calcutta, In tho Province of Bengal, In the Ea s t Indie , Enquire , theretofore carrying cm buslne i there in copart nership w.th Johannes Sarkios, as merchants and agents, entitled to participle in th.? trusts of an Indenture of Assignment, b. arin date the .'Kth day of March, 1817, and made by the Haid Darrapiet Sarki-s an i Mfctau 8arkles. lor the BENEFIT of their CREDITUR , are, on or before the 1st day of April 1813. to come in and PROVE their DEBTS before Wi liam Wingfield, Esq., one of the Masters of the said Court, at his chambers in Southampton-bulldings, Chancerv-lane, Loudon or. in default thereof, they will be peremptorily excluded the benefit of the said Dieree. . OL1VBR80N DBNBY, and LAVIE, Plaintiffs' Solicitors, a. Fr derick's-place. Old Jewry. .. ii, -arCARBAPIBT SA tKlB and BECTAN il T TICE that SAMUEL o ? kNE THOUSAND ENVELOPES for Sixpence. i Black-bordered Envelopes for . Threepence. i isw Q'te n's-Bixe Nete Paper, each at . . Twopence. i.ouh Initial Wafers . , . , 2s7 Cd. i lucludlng the penny stamp, at per dqscn Is. Od. ' wlS nef £ of Nol , toi . . U. ed. , rers °f every description at wbolcsalo prices. Envelopes, nlfr. f ? r ' Wm Wwk bordered ditto, of the best quality 8tocken' pure Cumberiand lead drawing pencils. Best cony books, 6d. per ,,d complete, for 8s. d. Name-plate tle-Wm1 w b® -1 •ujwflne cards printed, for 5 .-fexent-etraet. Com.ax. th. RN ITU RE nd BEDDING,C hkiagbFbkb, tJv xed .' wgbidliM of distance, in any part ef the coun-Vra W _Aw ilc,fn treated with the same iberality as hereto-U , I S™ one-tklrd the usual expence, und alt tke JMJJiMrouble, bv selcotiiMifrom our immense stock. By our book ol IJVk JJ ??' wh i c l contaiu the price of each item, shows tlie cost of nuy will find that ac niUJi'ia h ? ur 'i r ® on,e 1 hou#e wiftl and completely fur £25 a six-ro ed diua tly for £79 a ten-roomea ditto luxuriantly for a2LuV,.Vi tlve ', r . eWlle d,lto •■P rbly for l i a single room or who • w V rm Ud - We request noainrnd kt k 1 1 0,1 oountry fwrtdeats to the important fact an-•f ,he orumonctmnt of this advertisement. Shipper also ro ! ♦ f bt expenca of packing.-PAlNTER and CD , No. tn, Lelcerttr-equare, near Chartng-croas. T O LADIES. ROWLAND'S KALYDOR. ts u, i? er e Special Patrona e of her Moet Graeious Majesty, 1-.S 0J L 41 P auii, y' preparation from Oriental Exotics, is now •t'e 5 1 Vv n °, w ,n as the only safe und efficient proteetor and bean-u ,k,n • com lexioa. lie virtues are conmonly dis-RSJfctL' 0 l jbW 9ghly eradicating all pimples, spots, redness, ten, ! kl . unsightly cutaneous defects, in healing chilblain Hsus, and in -■fly • re d-ring tlie most rough to tbe complexfor and uneven skin plea-it Imparts ujuv v nhe 5 nd 10 neck bund, und am a delicacy und teirnei -0e J, l, viDen will fiud it allay the irritation of the skin, r£.S£! lB A P ,ie p. r bottle, duty includ d. tor HOWLAND KALYDOR. and see that these ♦ fbe envelope, as much pernicious trash is now ffVren Tra .'9a. tH Kalyvior, - 'byPi rfuiaers of apparent resi ectebility. T?_f irotec J the Pubi c fr -m such fraud, the Honourable Com mis aioners of Stamps have authorised the Proprietor Signature to te-nn oJTu 0 . 1 Govern meat Hump,thuu - • A. ROWLAND -.id 'which is affixed to each bottle.-bold ty asm, and by chemtats nnd perfumers, NEW DI8COVEKY, by which Ihe Tram nervuus bec £ nie the weak heart strong, an irJvVud °K, n of imaiitv nay t-thv rewitL t V?1P ' y n y Of nervous vigour being not ptllc .r tr J ' y lh Uke o th e tho.Hrin which does teffi3 b?thZ P , rl l c . k A ny fP 5S® has be -n ob-5Ste of uJ bh ' gi f T Above witl w °nderfu re.tcratlvc.-Sold by B. ••d.each wttJSnara R fr C w frl V H bosee at is. lMd n 2s. 9d and X'L'-Sroi wbvaring date the First day of October One Thousand Bight Hundred and Forty-two, BAR GAINED. BOLD, A8SIGNBD, TRANSFERRED, and SET OVER unto JainsH Dear, of Aldermanbury, London, warehouseman, and Robert Henry Taylor, of Birmingham, draper, all the ESTATE and EFFECTS therein mentioned of him the ' ' said Samuel Thomas the Moore, upon the truits therein mentioned, for th ? BENEFIT of all and every the CREDITOR and CRKDJTOR9 of the said Samuel Thomas Moore that the said Indenture was duly executed by tho said 9amutl Thomas Moore, and Jsniee Dear, and Roi ert Henry Taylor, on the said First day of October One Thousand Eight Hun dred and Fony-two. That the said deed of assignment now lies at tho office of Messrs- Hardwick and Davidson, of No. 14, Cateaton-street, in the City of London, solicitors, for execution by those cre ditors who have not yet executed the same.-Dated this 29th day of December. 1842. HARDWICK and DAVIDSON. 14, Cateaton-street, London, Solicitors to the Trustees of the said Thomas Moore. GENERAL ATLAS.-A General . . Colombler folio, full co'ourtd £ll Us., half-teund. Gbnenai. Atlas of the World, containing 31 Ma s. Full coloured, £ e .. half-bound. _ _ . .. Quarto Atlas of tbe World. Pull coloured. Containing 58 Macs, £212s. 6d., half-bound. . . Wyld'b School Atlas, with a copious Index. 12s-Atlas Classic!, 12s. These Atlases contain all the recent dis coveries. . J wnm Wyld. Geographer to the Queen, Channg-cross East. R. HOME and the ROYAL COGNAC BRANDY AFFAIR!-Mr. Home has to represent to tbe public that he has sustained grest injuries front Sir Felix Booth, who, beside# withholding the payroeats and rights due to him for the use of his discoveries at Albany-str et. Regent's Park-premistg t ken exnrcrsly to carry on Mr. Home's processes for making Brardy-has put forward a person he has railed from dependence, of the name of Grimble, to assume the merits of Mr. Home's pro ductions, aiding him by circulars in representing to the world teat he has made continuous improvements In this Brandy since its first introduction. Whereas the truth really is. that the Brandy now selling at Albany-street D no other than un imitation of the article supplied by Mr. Home, heretofore, from these premises, favoured by the same ineredient , made up in the same proportions, and prepared precisely upon the ssme principles. And if any improvement has taken place in the article ia the hands of these persons, it has arisen solely in consequence of the letter addressed to Sir Felix Booth and W YLD'S At ,, of th. WnrlJ,rfOutatn oK M Hap.. M hu Mauaging Partner by Mr. Home at different limes since their seising po#se sion of theso works, upon the merits of Mr. Home's production, to • able theni to wmet the faults they had fallen into in the preparation of that commodity. 4 Y rk..tf 't t, filfrucester-gate, Dec. 12, 1842. S MOKY CHIMNEYS CURED t ONCE, in accordance with the new Chimney Act,-The advertisers have dlM Overtd the cause of weak draughts, downward currents, c , and in x few hours can perfect the draughts of tbe mosV faulty chimneys. The cure is efiected by a simple and permanent process, at a stated moderate charge whvn p rfrot.-RefercHces in all ports cf London. The printed particulars, tom , r remitted post free-W. H. PHILLIPS - - -square. N and COh patentee!, 41, iloemiebury-D ETERM NATION ot BLOOD to the HEAD, APOPLEXY. Sec., effectually prevented by tbe occasional use of FRAMPrON'8 PILL of HEALTH, which, ty strengthening the action of the stomach, aud 1 rumoring a healthy aa regular 4 gfftioh o the food, prevents a •scwrrenc of those svmptemso thh lanniog d'sordar. giddu ee opp s jK-ion of the brain, singing noi e in he ears, head-ache, tec. They tfrf an exceih-nt apvrient, wiibeut griping or prostration of strength, mate appetite, relieve languor, end iavigorate the spirits, while to the free liver ur sedentary th y offer advantages that will not fail .o be appreciated.-? • Id by Tb uta pr-Hit yvn Ntrtiad J.. unS a lni ' ,, eJi. . • 'i .j, fa t 6t. VVfdnPBilay TICKETS for the LAST PERPORHANCB of th, MESSIAH rpo CHEMISTS ami DRUGGISTS.-To he 1 SOLI the LEASE, Oandwlll, Stock, end Filturee of ut old-esiablirhudCHEMISl'd JHOP, situate in one of the loading thorough fares near tlis city, and in the miidst of a highly resptcteble and po pulous neighbourhood. Tho shop from its excellent situation pre sents a most desirable opportunity for any young in an wishinur to cm-bark in the business pos esiiou may be had immediately.-For per- CADETS and ASSIST A NT-STTRGFONS an. ticularsapply to Mesirs. Hearon, Bright, and Co., 95. Bishopsgate- f ., U Meyrick, solicitor. 4, Furnival's-inn. T lHE CHINESE COLLECTION, Hyde-park-corner, consisting of objects exclusively Chinese, surpassing in extent and grandeur any similar display in the known world, en tirely tilling the spacious sal on, 225 feet in length, and embracing upwwrds of 50 figures as large as life, all fac similes, in their native costumes, from the highest mandarin to the blind mendicant also many thousand specimens, illustrating the appearance, manners, and customs of more than three hundred millions Chinese, is NOW OPEN, from 1 till li .-Admittance, 2s. 6d. children under twelve. Is. T HE SMALLEST and MOST PERFECT HORSE NOW EXHIBITING at the COSMORAMA ROOMS, 209, Regent-street. This extraordinary little wonder of nature sur passes any animal of the kind ever yet seen, is Tory docile, and mea sure only 30 inches high. This beautiful miniature horse is to be SOLD by Private Contract on moderate terms.-For particulars ap ply at tlw othie of the Cosmorama. Admission, is, Children, half price. f ANUFACTURERS' RELIEF COMMIT-lTJL TEE.-The Committee appointed to manage the Subscriptions and Collections making for the JR M U manage the 8ub#criptioas Relief of the Distressed Manufac turers respectfully announce that they continue to receive and apply, according to their b st ability, the Contributions of the Benevolent. Individual Subscriptions already advertised to the amount of £24,540 5 4 Received slr.ee the last advertisement Mr. 9cruh £ioo o o Rd. 8trachey, juu.. Esq., per Gosling and Co. . • . 10 0 0 Per. Twining and Co. J. H 0 lo 0 Mrs. H. . . . loo Rev. J. B. Twining ... 300 Amount of Collections made under the sanction of the Queen's Letter 75,567 12 9 The Collections made at the Churches Chapels, and Parishes, wero paid, by the dinctiOH of tho Queen's Letter, into the Bank of England, and have been duly acknowledged by the Cashiers as they were from time to time received from the resident or officiating Minister, The Manufacture rs' Relief Committee will, at the conclusion ef their labours, lay before the Public their Rer ort and Balance Sheet, Committee Room, 74, King William-street, City where, and by Messrs. Smith, Payne, and Smiths, hawkers. Subscriptions are re ceived. W.H HYETT, Sec. _De . 31,1642. T HE PIRIE TESTIMONIAL.-The Committee have determined to CLOSE the SUBSCRIPTIONS for Ihe Testimonial to Sir John and Lady Plr e on Tuesday, the 10th day of January, after which a List o f the Subscribers will be published, and a General Meeting of them will br held to resolve upon the Testimo nial to be pre en'td. Subscriptions arr continued to be received by the Treasurers, William Cotton, George Grots, John Masterman, and Joseph Somes, Esqrs. also by the Members of tbe Committee and bv the Bankers, Mefsra. Masttrman end Co. Messrs. Sir Richard Carr Glyn at d Co end Messr . Prescott, Grote, and Ce. and by-Mr. Anderton 20, New Bridge-street and Mr. Edward Harrison, 82, Cornhill, to whofn all communications aro rvqoested to be addressed. JAMES ANDF.RTON. Hon. EDWARD HARRISON, Bees. EDICAL PRACTICE.-To bo DISPOSED OF, a rural MEDICAL PRACTICE, In a most delightful part of one of the Midland Counties. It is stablished in a village contain ing upwardsof 1,000 persons, and extends over u well and respectably populated neighbourhood. Most satisfactory rea'ons will be given for the party's retiring. Price moderate.-Apply to Mr. G W. Hebb, solicitor, Lincolu. MBIIELLA TRADE, c., to be SOLD.-The _ LEA8E, with a valuable business established on the pro mises about twenty-five years, of UMBRELLA MAKER, FISHING TACKLE, and ARCHERY, c., in one of the best situations at the west-end of London, to bo DISPOSED OF by Private Contract. There are ahout eight hundred regu'ar customers, amongst whom aro many of the first families in thu kingdom.--For terms apply to Mr. Joaeph Foot, of Spilai-square, silk manufacturer or Mr. 8tar-lli-g. 40, Loicaster-square. If by letter, prepaid. D ublin dock warehouses.-Lot No. 2.-The Lords Commissioners of her Majesty' Treasury having declared the letting of the DUBLIN DOCK WAREHOUSES whivh took place on the let December, 1812, to be void, the PRE MISES will be again offered lo be LET by AUCTION, in the Long Room of the Custom-house. Dublin, on Wednesday, January 25, at Two in the Afternoon, subject to the conditions and stipulations contained in the particu'ars issued on the former occasion, except as regards tl.e term of the Lease, which will eommenee on the 8ih February next, and end on the 29th September, 1862, determinable at the option of either party on the 29th September, 1848. or on the 29th September, 1855, on giving thu one to the other six months notice in writing.-Copies of the said particulars may be seen on application to the respective Collectors of the Customs at Dublin, Liverpool, Bristol, Hull, Newcastle. Plymouth, Belfast, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Londonderry, Galway, Sligo. Leith, Glasgow, end Greenock, and at the Offices of the Solicitor for the Customs in Dublin and London. 'ANCY SPANIELS.-BARGAIN.-A Black a 01. 1 Tan. and a Black and White and Tan. rerr .mall, and had tlie dietemper aleo an Italian Ora,houi d. te be SOLD .heap.- ■ To '• M-II at 7, Arllngton-atreet, Myddolton-equar , Clerkanwell, near the Ansel. Isllatton. Wo deaura ic apply. F G OLD CLOCK, value 120 Gumw, to be DISPOSED OF b, SUBSCRIPTION. Two Guineas each.-To l.e Be. n at Mr. Shotter'i. the BalticTt,ern,Herculfc pae age,Thread-needle-street. VVBATCHES by WEBSTER and SON, Chrono-TT meter Makers to the Lords of the Admiralty, established d t ■PPHIRB! JDlfUt , _ f wuS ciaX2lS? o , t IS- patent belt-band spring drawers, periority of workmanship which has distiRguiBhed their establish- jL for Hunting or Riding, on an improved principle, for support-persons. Instructions for measuring can be forwarded to the country. -55, Quadrant. lowest prices, consistent wlih maintaining that character for su periority of workmanship which has distinguished tluir establish ment during that period. Tho compensated duplex Watch, upon the principle of their Chronometers, to which Government awarded the prizes three successive years, combines perfect accuracy with ele gance, and is not surpassed by the pocket Chronometer. W. awd Bon have devoted groat attention to the patent lever Watch, and r-ousi'ierably reduced the price, together with the small Irorizontal for ladies. They can offer a large selection ef Second-hand Watches, at little above half the original cost. The utmost value allowed for old Watches in exchange. The most experiei ced workmen in the repairing department are employed on the premises for foreign and English manufacture.-Webster and Son, 3, Birchin-lane. Cornhill. Ut uvll, O, Hill E MASSEY'S NEW PATENT WATCH re-• peats correctly, and can be wound up without a key. The Queen's Letters Patent have been obtained for this useful asd very novel invention, which winds up by pendant, and is an excellent re-peater, not bring liable to get out of repair. It will also give the time of any event w.thiu thirty hours after its occurrence. It has Mas-ty's patent lever escapement, which, as an article of commerce, is of national importance, and hu been proved to b- 1 the best can-s true ted pectet watch that can possibly be made. In silver cud, eight guineas gold, eighteen guineas.-4, Birchln-lane, and 89, 8trand. P LATE suited for PRESENTATION.-Cora-mitteec or private indiriduals requiring splendid or simple articles oi PLATE for presentation, may, by addressing a paid L tter, have drawings sent for their approval. A number of large articles, hr Epergn s, Cups, Waiters, Ice., are always in stock, second-band. A lint of them, with wrice, cau bo furpi hod.-T. COX SAVORY, silversmith. See 47, Cornhill seven doers from Gracechurch-street , London. D EANEAN PLATE. The DEANEAN PLATE ha nil the whiteness, and much more than the du rability ef silver. The snoons and forks manufactured of this beauti ful metal, arc of precisely the same shape and finish as the best Lon don r.-ade silver plate. 'I he tea and coffee sets, table and chamber candlesticks, waiters. Cake baskets, bottle stands, snuffers, and trays aro all of the newest fashion, and highest finish.-Deane's, opening to the Monument, 46. King William-street, London-bridge. P LATE.-A. B. SAVORY asd SONS, Manufac-turing Silversmiths, 14, CornhilL London, oppasite the Bank ef Kng'and.-The best wrought SILVER SPOONS and FORKfts Fiddle Pattern, 7s. Sd. per ounce the King B Pattern. 7 . 4d. per ounce. TKe following are the weights recommended, but the arti cles may be had lighter or heavier, at the wme price per ounce -FIDDLE PATTERN. KING'S B ISHOPSGATE PLATE GLASS WARE-HOUSE-Frem the scientific improvemente in the manufac ture of Plate Glass a con iderable reduction has been effected in its cost, and consequently THOMAS FOX is enabled to eff r his Chim ney, Pier, and Cans lo Glasses at very much lower prices than be fore. His stock comprises the simplest as well a the richest and most elaborate Gothic, Grecian, Elizabethan, and French styles of framing the quality is of the very best description, and he pledges himself to exchange any article should a reasonable objection arioe. Many second-hand glasses on hand at a gr at reduction from the new tariff prices.-Thomas Fox, 93, Bishopigate-strfel-wilhin. N EW YEAR'S GIFTS.-L die and Gentle-men's Rosewood and Mahogany DRESSING CASES £1 1 0 Ladies'Dressing Cases with silver fittings • 770 Writinz Deak fur Youth In rcwwcod cr jafiesany • 0 II b Ladies' rosewood W'riting Desks with secret drawers , 11 Elegant full siza Work Boxes filled complete . .11 Smaller sized Work Boxes fitted complete • .0 10 Russian Leather Shaving Cases Ladles' Companions with silver firilngs 0 10 6 1 1 0 PATTERN, o 8 Gravy Spoons 12 7 4 . 4 8 0 1 Soup Ladle ..It 7 4.. 4 8 0 6 Sauer ditto ..12 7 10..4 14 6 4 SaitSpeona strong gUt i S 0 1 Fish Slice 8 6 0 If Tea Spoons ..14 7 10..6 9 8 1 Pair Sugar Tong 1 4 N.B. A price current, stamped as a newspaper, illustrated by drawings, and containing every information relatlvo to the purchase of silver or Sheffield plate, may be had on application, or will be rent Into the country, free of postage. In answer to a oaid letter. Y7ELVET CARDINAL CLOAKS, trimmed with v fur, are an elegant toilet and much In vogue. The liberal patronage Messrs. J. and J. HOLMES and LE BATARD have re ceived for this beautiful costume, induces them to hone they have produced there unique articles with that good taste ch has ob tained for their houRe a notoriety it is thtir constant endeavour to m rit and to those desirous ot a souvenir for this season of the year, they are particularly worthy of notice.-Foreign and British Shaw Emporium, 171,173, and 175, Regent-street. T welfth cakes.-j. turner invites the Public to an inspirtionof his superior TWELFTH CAKES, feeling confident the superior quality, large assortment, and l©w prices will give unusual satisfaction rich quality, handsomelyer-naniented, 2s. to 2s. Cd por ib. fine quality. Is. 64. per lb. su-peri f r quality cakes for children, is. per lb. iced and ornamented, is. 3d. A distribution of Twelfth Cakes at 2 guineas, 1 guinea, and gu nea e ach, to be drawn on Twelfth-day shares, 2s. d. eaeh. -J. Turner, 67, BishopsgRte. within, and 4, Quceu's-row, Dalsten. -A show room of the prize cakes open to inspection. rpEAS in six pound bags at 3i.4d. anR8sTl0d. per 1 pound, black or green and C flee at Is. and Is, 4d.-The East India Tex Company have fleeted a further reduction in prices of from 2d. to 6d.4 r pound and in bearing down the market for ihe benefit of their numerous agents, friends, and connections, read the monopolisers of tea this useful lesson-that they had better have been contented with moderate gains.-No. 9, Great 8t. Hoka's, Bisheps-gUc street. TAAVIES'S CANDLES, 6d. per Ib. Wax Can-JL dies. Is. 2d. fine Wax, Is. 3d. Cocoa Nut, lOd. extra fine Wax Wick Moulds, 7hid. transparent Wax, 2#. 2d. genuine Sperm, a , id. genuine Wax, 8s. 3d. Yellow Soap, € ., 54s and 60s. per 1121 h . Mottled, 62e. and 8 e, Windsor, Is. 4d. per packet Palm, is. 4d. Old Brown Windsor, is. 9d. Roee, 2s. Camphor, 2s. Almond. 2a. 6d. superfine Sealing Wax, 4s. 6d. per lb. genuine 8 xni Oil, 7a. 6d. per gallon Solar Oil, 4s. For cash, at DAVIES'S oid-o taldlshed warehouse, 63, fit. Martin' -lane, opposite New Slaughter's OnfW hens riVHE RESPIRATOR.-A GENIAL CLIMATE A in ENGLAND,- HENRY WILSON raquetta Aithmatlc. Con-Hisi tiT . and all perron d llcate In tha ch.it, to examine the nu-meroua testimonial In hi poiaeuion of person able to anja health, and follow heir arocatlona or pliaaore In En.land, under the uae ol tlie Respirator, who would otherwise be compelled to lease the country, or to hasten their decay by constant confinement within doors. Hundreds here become eo well under Its iimaiUbt ab'e to lay it a lde even In the winter, nnd H Is each e.ldence which causes the use of it to make proems against n praralling and lutere.ted opposition in quarters where It would belittle luspecied.-Respirator Depot, U8. Regenpetreet, Louden. ,ST TEETH.-Mr. WITT, Surgeon-Dentiat, . H! ! Hnlhorn nrat Chancery-lane , mippllea the BEST ARTIPtvML TEETH of every description they are fixed without spring., wire , or ligature , and without txtrectina root or coniine the least earn, nnd restore articulation and muticatton. This newly, invented teeth never change eolour or decay, and will he found very superior to any ever before used they so perfectly resemble nature as not to be dtatinguiehable by the clorat observer, and will eupport and preserve teeth that are looee. Teeth, whleh frem accidcnior dnease of the gums, have fallen out, are fixed and again ren lered u efnl. Decujed teeih llkewlM made serviceable to mastication.-Mr. WUl haa reduced hla charges to tbe loweet scslc. and are aa mo derate as can possibly be. consistent with the best workmanship, mi d 8li n -E tsMish t d r i t - ' i5 ' H ' h no'tora.-At home from Ten OR STOPPING DECAYED TEETH. Price 4s. ed.-Patronissd by her Majesty, his Royal Hlghaeie hccomeaaa bard as tha enamal, and will remain firm in the tooth fer life, rendering extraction un necessary. ltarrasta all further progress of decay, and renders them again useful in mastication. AU persons can use Mr. Thomas' 8uc-cedaneum thsmselve. with ease, without the aid of a dentist as full directionsi areaneloaed.-Prepared1 and eol.1 by Mr. Thomas, surgeon-dentist, 8, Bernara-straet, rxfurd-street i sold, by his appointment, by all respectable medicine venders. ■an-,™. C TAUTION to LADIES.-Much pernicious trash J Is now offered for sale as KALYDOR frrquer.tly under me implied eanction of Royalty by perfumer of apparent leeneeta buity. wbo cmir he bill. nnd'kKlT.f S?Tii, i . Lxva nmi 10 • Ul ' • rd • ROW-gioee mp-i Uona! R prlnUKl ° n wrapper. AU other are Tj protect the puMlc from fraud, the Ranonnkl Comminlonen of Stamp hare authorised the proprietors' atgnatura to be engnnn on the g eeminent eUmp. thue- 11 n. a . A- ROWLAND Jt SON. so, HATTON GARDEN. InffinduSy ° b0ato ' PriM • . 6d. per bottle, Aik Jot ROWLANDS' KALYDOR.' Nld by them, nnd by chtmnta and perfumere, ' ' P AN IH YMIAN LEAVES.-VINE It'S trite ran t VERBENA LEAVES for imparting to the ataoaephare of apartment, the delicious perfume of that fevouriie es ilc the Ver bena Plant, and lor correcting tha Imparity nccaiiomd by respire tlon. tniinnl rfflurin, and noiloua vapours from candle and other burning eubetenove, thereby converting a noalau .ffl.ivia into a ea-InUry ecenL Willi directum for use. price Is. uer Backet at Messrs. Sanger' . JJ . Oiford-ilreet t StncSen. Quanranti Prout. Tt mple-laar Joutii-t . Cornhill and at the principal house -Wholesale at Viner s A , arur9jwu44 R eeHte trtet-rircnfi. Pirca li y rew. w. - ®Fwnfc-Rirkei-rircU8, nocS'lli y. riTHE PREMIER COMPOSITION oitf, d vi J WILLIAMS S PATENT FRENCH POLISH REVIVER.-It will be found a greal aavlug of tlm. lai cur. al d erper.se, hr merely rubbing a few drers eecariorally on the fnrn.ture-like oil It does not eniyprvranre the polish, but adde to lie splendour, and causes no divanrveabie tmrll, whjpb 1, the cue with all other ccropoalttonr, 11 is tired in ihe royal psMces, and I appr.c lawd by thoa-ands One trial will hr a u fcieut guarantee l.r It. ntillty.-gold In bottler, n.od. Wholeeale. by Hannay and c cs. Oiford-rtrert Barclay nnd Per r. Harnngden-street Hatty aud Co.. FarammiL Plmbarv l.anul. by all cktn.Lia. oil nnd Itnlinn w.rehcuraBi.n. PmV'Sfe eaaJw.'r-sireat. Etirb t, crasceat, I ondna T cl D they are also selling from 2 . ll J. to 3s. 6d. also koo4 watered mo--eeiis a low as lO'id. and ohintz furnituresg werta Is. Md. Their stock of Brussels carpets consists of a spit jf good quality, commencing as low as 2s. 6d. per yard, those of new and elegant designs from 3s. to 3s. lid., and those of very mag and chintz furnitures, worth is. per yard, at isscls carpets consists of a splendid variety ncing as low as 2s. fld. per yard, those of jgns from 3s. to 3s. lld and those of very mag nificent patterns and qualities, such as are usually charged 5s. 6d., from 4s. 2d. to 4s. 6d. T. P. and Co. also invite attention to their Urge assortment of gilt window corn! brass rods, deep ornamental drapery fringe , gimps, laces, and every other description of modern elegance suited for either drawing or dining room curtains.-Thomas Paul and Co., cabinet-makers, upholuterm, and carpet-manufac turers. opposite tbe Mansion House, City f London, C 1LOAK8 and CARDINALS. Gardin l cloakij J 17 . 6d. rich satin cardinals, 48s. Genoa silk velvet cardjoals, 52s. 6d. and 63s. each promenade cloaks, 17s. 6d. to 25s. each, worth 30 a to 40s. each Genoa silk velvet carnage cloaks lined throughout and trimmed with fur, '6 guineas each, worth eight guineas each rich Mlk and satinette carriage cloaks lined throughout and trimmed with fur, twe guineas each a choice of upwards of a thousand new cl 2 a k , w C J? rd . , , ia 8 1Q r 'tks, velvet shawls, and scarfs. SABLE FURS.-Fur Cloaks, richest sable tail boas at half price cape and muffs Russian sable boas, 80s. flat sable W 4 ' SU. i cardinal capes, two guineas Canada sables Vic torina and ridiwg boas, 5s. to 10s. 6d. Russian fox, 7s. to 15s. Russian ermfne, 5s. to 21s. long Canada sable boas, 2s. 6d. to 15s. Missourisable, 18 . 6d. to 17s. fid. each carriage muffs, rugs, fur aloYes, cuffli carriage cloaks of silk velvet, lined and trii J Fur, 3S guineas.-Q. Merington's. 154, New Bwd-stmt. rimmed with CAUNDERS'S INDIA ALE rLE.-CHAM-CLAYTON, Wine Merchants, 19 and 27, King-street, Cheapside, have the pleasure of informing their friend and the public, that they have undertaken the agency for the above ad mired and increasingly popular beverago and are now enabled to offer it in cask an.l battle, in fine and sparkling condition. Being entirely freo frem acidity, and possessing a pure and unadulterated bitter, it is professionally recommended as a salutary and agreeable tonic. Country favours are requested to contain a reference in London. S aunders and co s east india pale and GOLDEN ALES.-WILLIAM GOW and CO., the ap-B ainted agents for bottling these celebrated ALBS, now beg to offer lem ripe in bottle quarts and pints , as well as In casks of various sizes, in high condition. The fermentation of these liquors being conducted upon a principle which render them entirely free from acidity, has br -light them under the notice of several of the most eminent physicians In London, to whom W, Gow and Co. have the honour of referring. Invalids generally will find these ales an agree-abie and Invigorating beverage.-2, Hungerford Wharf, Strand. R OYAL COGNAC BRANDY.-Mr. GRIM-BLE, who has been the managing partner in this concern, begs to acquaint tbe Public that, In consequence of the great im provements he has, by his unwearied exertions, been enabled to make in the quality of the article, it will in future be known in commerce as GRJMBLB'S ROYAL COGNAC BRANDY, The strong recommendation it has received from medical professors and surgical operators, and Its use in many of the metropolitan hospitals, are a guarantee to the unblic far its purity and wholesome qualities whilst the patronage bestowed upon it by noblemen and nenlkmen of high standing in society, and good taste nnd Judgment, aaded to its extensive consumption in the mercantile world, are a sufficient evidence of its agreeable flavour and general excellence indeed, Mr. Grimble is borne out by the full concurrence of his cus tomers in stating that the article has continually improved from its first introduction. As a pure Brandy, and as conducive to health, it challenges competition with the most expensive productions of the Continent, and it requires an experienced judge to distinguish it in flavour from the veritable Cognac. The price Is, a heretofore, I8s. per gallon, in quantities of not less than two gallons, or 3fi . per dexeh being two full imperial gallons , with the usual charge for bottles,-Distillery, Albany-street, Regent's Park, M. YOUNG FELL and CO. feel much flat-tered that their names, in connection with their brandy diitillery in the Waterloo-read, Lambeth, were so brilliantly dis played in Punch's Pantomime, at Covent-garden Theatre. There 5 ay arousing, spirited, pantomimic performance without Punch, but not good punch without W. Y. Foil and Co.'s superior BRANDY, of which two gallons can be pnrthased fer 3te. and Gin ger Brandy at 30 ,at2fl, Friday street, and at the distillery. X ND1A PALE ALE.- HARPKH and Co., wine-merchant , the appointed agents to Bass and Co., Burton uoon-Trant, b.g to inform their friend that tiieir Stock of BASS'S INDIA ALL l now in goad condition, and can be supplied l any quantity. In cask as weli a quart an! pint bottle . Also Burton Ala, Stout, and te rtgr.in rq fc or bottle.-t, Oowpar's-coort, CorwhtH. A LE ot very superior quality, brewed entirely from the very best malt and hops, anfi in uch proportions as persons of nice palates will oe sure to appreciate, 2old Jn etiki of - pali nine gallon each, at Is. per gallon. 8ent to any part of towu car riage free. Oners by post punctually attended to.-Address to the John Bull Brpw ry office. Nq. ao, Philpot-lane, City. jJ ASS'S PALE ALE, a prepared for India.-A-F FIELD, WaRDBLL, and 00 after devoting great attention to bottiir.tt thi much admired A LB, can now offer it to their and the public, in the greatest state of perfection. Scotch and Bur-tor Alee, London and Outness's Dublin Btouf ther with thflir Foreign Wines and Snirita ef and Burton Ale, Stout, and PdHerln oaskso1 If gaUone.-22. Hen-r frieDd-i , t. Older and Perry, teee-ef a superior darn. Pale , LADY HESTER STANHOPE. ETCHINGS MORALIZED, AND THE DEFAULTER. BY THE EDITOR, THOMAS HOOD. ESQ. dge, E nlargement ®f the true tablet.-On Saturday next, theVth of January being the fir t Saturday the year thi paper tha m t Cethpkfe Journal in Great Britain II RESUME ITS ORIGINA1 NAMEof THB TABLBT, and A Farewell to December, ifry The Widow ' Aim Houses. By the Barry Cornwall. Author ef Peter Priggius. Th ' Recantatien. a Poem. By I All Sorts of Little Attentions. Horace Smith, Eaq. I By Laman Blanchard, Esq. MY GRANDPATHER'8 DREAM. A Tale founded on tact. BY JAMES 8H8RIDAN KNOWLES, ESQ. l w Extracts from My Indian Diary. I Grenada, a Poem. By the Medi-i By tbe Old Forest Ranger. cal Student. Obituary-Remarks on the late I A yery Se-so Character. Mr. 1842, deceased- I The Barnabys in America. By The Adyertiseraeut Literature of I Mrs. Trollope. Illustrated by the Age. Leech. BLXtISTONIANAr Or, Original Anecdotes of the late R. W. Blliston, Esq. By W. T. Mocoriefi', Esq. No. I. Conjuror and No Conjuror-8. The Genius Of the Lamp-3 Measure for Measure-4. Tbe Sanguinary Public-5. The xty four columns, , r _ _ flro-4 to becyme Nwbrcrilwrs - to •SSVfStXi not able, cenvcnitiitly, to procure it through a local newsvender, may be supplied direct from the office. 0, Catherine-street, Strand, by sending a Post-office erder, with the subscriber's name and ad dress. Terms of '•ubscri. tion payable in advance yearly, £1 6 . half-yearly, 13s. quarterly, fi . fid. Publishing office, fi, Catherine-street, Strand, London, where advertisements are received, aud whither all communications must he addressed pre-paid .-Orders re ceived by all nevruen and booksellers. fallen Hpco-6. Humbug Tho New Year being - ' feriodioad, thorn wf Magazine are wql _ reapective fook nelters. Henry Colbiyu, pubtixbar. 13, Great Marlborough-sirect. w a favourable opportunity for commencing a those who way d i ir to take in Th Nkw Monthly luested to give their orders without delay to their po New ready. No. 1, price ., of THE REIGN and COLONIAL QUARTERLY REVIRW.-Contbnts -C , pointed to India, may. on application to Mensrs. GRINDLAY, CHRISTIAN, and MATTHEWS, obtain ESTIMATES showing at one view the total expense ol Equi. ment and Passage, both by sea and overland. Plans and particulars vf all shipe under despatch may also be had at either of their offices, 16, Cornhill, or 8. St. Martin's-place, Charing-cross. B Y hrr MAJESTY'S ROYAL LETTERS PA TENT for tbe MORPHOTYPE or MOULD of FORM tor MEASURING the HUMAN FIOURE.-JOHN LESLIE, by i ecial 'Appointment, TAILOR to her MAJESTY and the ROYAL FAMILY, 60, Conduit-street, London. JOHN LESLIE has the honour to announce to the Nobility, Gentry, and the Public that he has received her Majesty's Royal Letters Patent for England. Scotland, and Irelund, for Machinery, which, without any personal inconvenience, in a few seconds takes and retains the eiact model of every variety of the human figure. These Machine , after ruHch labour anfi expense, ho has now brought to great per fection-thus eunereeding the old and uncertain methods of mea suring for clothing. The practical experience of this Machinery has unfolded such im mense advantages in precision and economy, that it has required much deliberation as to the plan to ba adopt d to give full effect to it and the result it, that it will bj imposnible to work these Patents most advantageously to the public and himFelf under he combined system of credit aud ready-money transitions. It is, therefore, most respectfully announced, that his future busi ness will be conducted entirely apen Immediate cash payments, with out any discounts, abatements, cr deduction whatever. For the immense outlay of money in the perfection of these Patents he Reeks a remuneration-not In monopoly charges, which patent rights may give but from the facilities they afford him, and from au improved mode of transacting business on the soundest com mercial principles The reputation of the house of business, for nearly half a century, it is hoped will be a sufticunt guarantee to those who may honour him with thfir commands, that they will obtain the very chuicest goods in Woollens, Silks. Velvits, Embroideries, See, See., in the ma nufacture of personal and household clothing, as well as in every de scription of Court costume, Military, Naval, and Diplomatic Uni forms, executed in such a manner as the Patentee trusts will give the highest satisfaction, and receive the approbation of the public. London, 60. Conduit-street, January, 1843. 1. Schiller, Life and Lyrical Com positions. 2. Hymns and iAtys of Ancient Germany. 3. Validity of Popular Judgment. 4. Life and Time of Savonarola. 5. French Academy of Sciences. 6. Modern Turkish Travellers. 7. Chinese Characteristic . 8. Tariff-Commercial Policy, Home and Abroad. 9. Spain as it is. 10. Treaty with China. It. Origin of the Red Indians. 12. Poets and Poetry of America. 13. Life of Jean Paul Richter. Critical Sketches. Reviews, Correspondence and latest Intelligence, Foreign aud Colonial,Books recently published on the Continrnt, foe. London Whittaker and Co., Ave Maria-lane and may be had by order, of all booksellers. T ~ HE FOHEIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. LX-, price 6s. CONTBNTA■ 1. Hoffmeiafer on Schiller 2. Gutzkow's Letters from Paris 8. Socrates and the Sophists of Athens 4. Balzac's Provincial Bachelor' 6. The Countess Hahn Hahn's Travels 7. George Sand's Consuelo' 8. The King of Saxony's Travels in Montenegro 9. Alfred de Musset's 4 White Thrush 10. Klopstock 11. The Newspaper Press of France rature-Poland. Short Reviews of New orks. Foreign Correspondence, Intelligence, foe. 6. Franeeso Forti's Civil Institutes Chronological Tables of LiTeratui Works. Foreign Correspondence, intelligence, e. Chapman and Hall, 186, Strain and Longman, Brown, and Co., Paternoster-row. T MUSICAL NOTICE.-Now ready, HE PIANISTA for January, No. 25.-Con-tents The Christmas Quadrilles, containing Jack Frost, the Ieicle, Snow-drop, Holly, and Mistletoe-bough. Also, the Twelfth nipht Waltzed, with Characters, Punch's Galop, and Judy's graceful Mazurkas. Barnett's New 8ong for Winter, Twelve Scotch Reels and Strathspeys and the Merry Bells Ringing the Chinese Victory. The whole for 2s. Post tree, as. fid., by adarelsing the Editor, 23, Pater noster-row. Notice.-The Proprietor of the 4 ' Pianista prevents gratis to pur chasers of Nos. 24 and 25, all the Music in 44 King Arthur. No. 25 begins a new volume, and presents a good opportunity for new subscriber . Sherwoods Qange, 19, Poultry and Tern pieman, 248, Regent-street. T HE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for Ja nuary 1843, the First Number of a New Volume, contains the first of a scries of articles on the Foundation of Religious Houses in B elt iband drawers.-sandland and CRANE'S 55. Quadrant new and improved principle, recommended and persohally aied by the most eminent physicians and army surgeons, admirably adapted for strengthening the loins England-Remarks on Church Architecture, what it Is, aud what it ou ht to be-Errors in Lerd Brougham's 44 Political Philosophy The History of Ferdinando Paleolegus of Barbados, the last of the -CHEWS upon tte ST ffcS of.fo.g r ... .o- a-ith Tiiiiftrations by Leech, T ixQpqon - - - -- .r~ w TiidTririsrsafc. -iu u ot1 ' Thi 8so jd of nq . he ingoldsby LEGENDS, or, Mlrtb and Marrel . B, THOMA8 jweOLPgBf. rpHE HAND'BobToi 0 SIL'C COTl'ON, md 1 Dr.W W c88 nTw readr. ta 3 voir, poat wo., ith nuM.rou. ctiaract.ri.lic • -'ration T H E llliilrtUen. b, ch, prlc ! •■ _ . WASSAIL BOWL. Bt ALH8HT SMITH, B q. Richard Rentier, New Burl nqtoo-atreet. To be had at all the Librartea. ' io ' h B ALOCHISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, and the x,f4 NJABl VgiSAflftSBS lf.fir An admirabla narratl.e.''-Standard. _ hl . h wi ii no t fall to •• A moat Invaluable work on AfghanUUmwhicn w 1 be read with peculiar interest at thle moment, -Marnln uareia. Richard Bantley, New Byrtoeton-etreat, Publisher In .rdlnan to h,r M eetrN_ ~~ MR. WORLEY'S NEW TRAGEDY. Now ready. In 8 o., , B O R G I A By HENRY T.'WORLEY, R q. YIdetl. in Phffl-lra etlam wel.re at arnsnUA JJ ease pAniiu. eitinctan. indol.m pudort at honeeuti . -oioriui ae Groria, P'g 0 j en i and otley, publl.bera. CraidulLatraet. new'worITby mrTcharles hickenb. Price One Shilling, Mrat Number of T HE LIFE and ADVENTURES of MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT his RRI.ATIVK8, PJU NDS, aid KNBIIIE8-Comprising all his Wills and hte Ways withau H ricai Reoord of What H?3MLMdWh l'He W J iJWJ ft WHO INH. WHO CAMB AND WHO iat BRIT OTO ITBD TH POR T PAM'LY PLATE, IIL V ER r K N8, 1HYU Trnu rOR THE ,,'pwit ' The whele forming a complete Key to_. Tne Heusu of CU iz ewif. DJU..A t.H flTIlW TiliialaotiAna k Edited by Box With Illustrations by Phh. _ London hapman and Hall, 18fi, 8ri .na. SALES BY AUCTION. Dorer-itreet, Pi cadilly. L AHEE and SON respectfully announce that the LEASE and FURNITURE of No. 10, Do.ar atreet, ui adm-■lt ed for ra'a on the 10th ol January, are SOLD by Prirato Contract. -Audio. Office, it, New Bond-ltreet, December 01. UttL WinkttflV .rTd Warfield, Berk .-Very ellttlbje Preaheld Inyratmant . cnatstlne of .ariou enclo.uraa of up rior Meadow and Arable Land, end otherB t t , with po Mton. .,, M essrs. Daniel smith and son will SUBMIT to SALE by AUCTION,.t .he Castle Inn. Wind-sor, on Saturday, January 14, at One, under the ®fthe late George Proctor, Esq., tiie T O very valuable FREEHOLD FARMS, nearly surrounding Winkfleld Church, between Wmdsor, Maidenhaad, and Brackneil, known as Brown's and Goodwin s Farms, which will be subdivided into numerous lots also a very extenkive allotment of heath land, lying between King s Beech and Bagshot Park, partly adjoining the Royal preserves. The whole Property comprising about 400 acres, and offering most eligible occupations and safe investments for capital of various amounts, particularly to adjoining landowners, with many desirable spots for building.-Particulars may be had at the neighbouring inns of Edward Futvoye, Es ., solicitor, Bedford-row and of Messrs. Daniel Si aud Sen, land agents,In Windsor, and Waterloo-place Pall-mall, Leasehold Ground-rents and Improved Rente, In Bentinck-street, Cavendish-square, and Hereford-sireet, Park-lane. TV TESSRS. DANIEL SMITH and SON will lYl SELL by AUCTION, at tha Auction Mirt, on Wednesday. Jan. 18, at Twelve, by erder o' the executrix of a lady dccf-asrd, sundry GROUND RENTS, arising eutof house and premises in Bentiack-street, Cavendish-iquare. and Marylebene-lane, under the Duke of Portland also certain Snares iB the Improved Rents of two hand some Houses in Hereford-street, Hyde-park.-Full particulars may be had at the Auction Mart at the Coackmaker ' Arms one of the houses of Messrs. Malton and Trollope,'solicitors Carey-atreet, Lincoln' -inn and at Messrs. Smith's offices, in Waterloo-plaee. Pall-mall. and giving uniform support to the abdomen, preventing rupture, and checking increase of corpulency to those inclined to that habit, but alike comfortable and beneficial to thin as well as stout Greek Imperial Family-Effigy in St. Mary's Church, Nottingham, with a Plate-Coffin of Sutton, the Founder of the Charter-taise-Recent Diseoveries in Subterranean London-Review of Hewitt's Germany-Poems by the late Marquess Wellesley, foe With Li terary and Scientific Intelligence-Reports of Antiquarian and Ar chitectural Societies-Historical Chronicle-Obituary, with Memoirs of Sir M. O'Loghlen. Sir Jeha Cross, General SirG.T. Walter, Rev. Dr. Heath, Lady Callcott, Mr. William Hone, Mr, John VarleyJ foe. Price 2s. fid. W. Pickering, Piccadilly. j . for Hunting or Riding, on an improved principle, for support ing the loins and abdomen, in riding or ether exercise, preventing rupture, checking increase of corpulency, and giving remarkable comfort in general wear, both to thin as well a stout persons. Made by the inventor, 8 K. 8ALAMAN, tailor and breoches-maker, 19, Charing-cros , two doors from Craig's-court. Riding trousers cut upon an improved plan, which renders them extremely pleasant with or without braces. The new light waterproof cape add coat, adapted to all climates, seasons, and constitutions. T HE CATHOLIC MAGAZINE for January, New Series.-No. I. contains Opening Address to the Reader -Life of St. ElizabeUi of Hungary, by Ambrose Lisle Phillipps, Esq, -The Nave of the Church, Chapter I.-The Third of May, a Legend of the East and of the West, in two parte-Ane Oratioune made be Master Quintin Kennedy, Commendafor of Crorsraguel-Letter front the Prince Bishop of Trent on the Saintly Maria Doraenica Lazari, of Capriani-Homilies of St. Bedo the Venerable and St. Leo Pepe, fer . - - -• J v-Reviews of the 8o-..ary-Sacred Pcenitentiary, Ac. i ti . _ A London C. Dolman, New Bond-street, and T. Jones. Pateraoeter-row. Jmt puolished, price 2 ., Part 1., 112pp. 8 o. of the IHYMlCAL GAZETTE er, Journal of Prac-V-V tical Chymistry, conducted by WILLIAM FRANCIS and HENRY CROPT. late Students in the Universities of Berlin and Giessen, containing upwardsof one hundred articles of consierablo practical importance to the manufacturer, chemist, tud druggist. Also, No. 5, published on theSist December, price6d. itamped edition 7d. , containing, among other articles of interest, the following On the Manufacture of Oxalic Acid, with teste for impurities-On Syrup and Pills of the Iodide of Iron-Action Water on Haloid Salts-Urine in Morbus Brightii-Use of Sulphurous Acid in Analysis, foe. foe. R. and J. E. Taylor, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street aud all book sellers. B A great variety of elegancies in Pspier Ma h . The first and tw -cona floors are fitted up as Showrooms. BBLLAMY SAVORY, St tiener and Dressing-case-maker.-British Paper Warehouse, 46, Cornhill, London. KKEbblNG-CASEb, WOltK-liuAEb, TEA-XJ CABD1B9, foc.-STOCKKN, 52, Qoadraut.-Portable dressing cases in ru iia or morocct, wntaiulng razor strop,comb, and shaving brush, for 10 . 6d. rosewood or mahogany dressing cases, from Ute.fid. to 17U guineas ladies' dressing ca-vo with silver fitting , from •even guinea writing anddreMing caees repaired and refitted work boxes, mahogany and rosewood writing desks ot every description travelling writing cases, from Its. fid. best Lend ah razors, penknives and sciitforu, despatch boxes, letter and key boxes, uiow r mxchi blotting books aBd xuvelope cases, and card boxe .-8TOCKBN, No 53, Quadrant, Regent-street, next door to Swan nd Edgar s.-Ob serve the name. LUNT'S ClVILENGINEERING aud PltAC-TICAL MACHINIST.-Now ready, TWO NEW PARTS, price 14s. each, containing folio plates and quarto letter press de-soriptions ef the Thames Tunnel and Shield by Sir Izambard M rk Brunei-Land and Mffnne Steam Engines-Cranesand Dredging Ma chinery by the Messrs. Rennie. c. For the Use of Students and Professors in Civil Engineering. ■ _ . Ackerman and Co., Strand Weale, High Holborn Kirton, No. I, Great P rtland-street. Oxford-street and all booksellers. Th g day is published, price los.fid., P ROFESSIONAL EXCURSIONS. By no AUCTIONEER. L,n ci Alfred Orranlinfi, i, Old Broail-urcet. Roy.l E ch.p . O PERSONS ABOUT TO MARRY.-FUR-. NITURE and BEDDING, CARRIAGE FREE, .nd died, re-gardlessaf distance, in any part of the country. Town residents treated with the tame liberality as heretofore. You will save at least one-third the usual expense, and all the usual trouble, by selecting from our immense stock. By our book of estimate , which contains the price of each item, shows the cest of each r om, and may be had gratis, postage free, you will find that we furnieh a four-roomed house well aBd completely for £25 a six-roomed ditto elegantly for £79 a ten-roomed ditto luxuriously for £178 and a twelve-roomed ditto superbly for £335 a single room or a single article equally mo derate the whole warranted. We request the special attention of country residents to the important fact announced at the commence ment of this advertisement. Shippers also, at this faotory, save the usually great expense of packing.-PAINTER and CO., 28, Leicester-square, near Charing-cross. EST BRUSSELS CARPETS at 83. 6d, per J yard.-A rare opportunity just now offers to purchasers of RPETS. Selection frem a stock of several hundred pieces of the newest style, chiefly Comber patterns and three-thread grounds, in fact, the heaviest goods made expres lv for an established trade, and have never been sold under 5s. per yard, being the stock of Mr. W. Hopper, of Great Qaeen-rtreet, Lincoln's inn, purchased of hi as signees by HARVEY and Co., and now on sale at their General Fur nishing Warehouses, Lambeth House, Nos. 41, 42 . 43, 44, We tmin-ater-bridge-road, near the Marsh-gate.-N.B. Be particular in cbwrv-ing the name, Harvey and Co., Lambeth House. RAWING and DINING ROOM CURTAINS nd Carp.U.-THOMAS PAUL .nd CO. lnrite the attention of the Nobility and Gentry to this very Important branch of their establishment, which offers advantages dot to be met with at any other house in London. They are new selling rich royal damasks, iu beautiful variety, at is. fid. per yard, and those of two colours, evi dencing a most silk-like appearance, some as low as Is. 4d. per yard the richest silk a d satin striped tabbarets, worth 4s fid. per vard, they are also selling from 2 . lid. to a , ad. ' J -reeiis as low as 10 d, 6 d. Their stock of Brussels carpets consists of a spleni This day is published, price 5 .. T HE SECOND PART of a TREATISE on the GAME of CHESS. ao.UInlnK the Klnfc . Knilht't Oom . By W. LEWIS. A. H. Btilr and Co , 83. Cornhill. 13. Great Marlborounh-itr.et. M RS. TROLLOPE'S STORY of the NEW POOR-LAW, entitled JESSIE PHILLIPS.-Part I i now ready, price one shilling Illustrated by Leech, and embellished with a fine portrait of the Authoress. To be completed in twelve monthly shilling ptrt .-Ordei rehelvtd by al! bookrall.r anJ newsvendor . . . Honry Colburn, tmhllrtur. 13, Groat Marlborough-t t. THE TWO POPULAR NOVELS OF THE SEASON. riHIE POPE and the ACTOR. By the Author X of Seymour nf gudl.y, Thlnt for Gold, lee. •• Every page teem wiih beautifully eipreraed Incident -Aram Contracted with the .kill oft Fielding, and framed with all th. nower of a Mira Porier. -Bell' Meraengt-r. ' It it n production of no ordinary merit. '-Morning Herald, t he plot 1. admirably eon tructed-lh composition of Ihe •ab ject complete. -Court Journal. The beet historical novel ol the year. -Athenscura. Miaa Ellen Pickering' New Noral, Sir Miciubl Pal let. By the Author of The Fright, Cha-radea far Aet Mort , aef ., trMli cavendlth-aouara. REV. H ENRY BLUNT'S WORKS FOR FAMILY READING. A N EXPOSITION of the PENTATEUCH. Part II., Exodus and Leviticus, 6 . in clath. Second Edition, Part I., Genesis, is now r ady, 6s. in cloth. . Sermons preached at Trinity Church, Upper Chelsea. Fifth edi tion. l2rno. 6s, cloth.-Lectures on the History t Elisha. Price 5s. fid. in cl th. Fourth edltion.-On Jaceb. Fifteenth edition. 4s. Cd.-On St. Peier. Sixteenth edition. 4 . fid.-On Abraham, Tenth editian. 5s. cd.-On 8t. Paul. Ninth edition. Two vox. 6 . fid. esch.-On Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Three vote. 5s. fid. each. Eighth dition.-Discour ee on Some of the Doctrinal Articles of the Church of England. Eighth edition.■ #8j d. Expo sition ef the Epistles to the Seven Churches. Third edition. 69. 6d. sloth.-Also Two Sermons on the Sacrament of the Lords Supper. Eighth edition. ls.-Trlal of the Spirits, b xth edition. Ii.'Jd. Messrs. Hatchard and Sob, Piccadilly and Messrs. Hamilton, Adams, and Co Paternoster-row. The Twenty-eighth Edition of l.OOtrieach. F LETCHER'S FAMILY DEVOTION con-taining the Morning and Evening Service of a Familv for Every Day throughout the Year. Embellished with Author, and Sixteen elegant Engravings. Bound in cloth, gilt edges, price £1 6s. Also, a splendid Kditien, In royal 4to-prlce £2. • d by the following distinguished Mu ' Rev. John' M -' -Debdco Hall Estate,in the Countyof Euex.-Ry Me sr . HOGOART and NORTON, at the Auction Mart, on Friday, January 13. at Twelve, by direction of a mortgagee, .. T HE LIFE ESTATE of Sir F. Vincent, Bari., uuder a power of sale, in the rentals and income arising from and out of tho Debden Estate, farms, mansion, park, furniture, and effects, timber and underwood. It appears that the present income is about £4,400 per annum, of ample amount to secure the interest upon the mortgages, and sundry annuities, leaviag a surplus of about £650 per annum.-Pull particulars will be ready fifteen days prior to the sale, and may be had of Messrs. Pritchard and Col lett, solicitors, Lincoln's-inn-fields at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton. Si, Old Broad street, Royal Exchange, Absolute Reversion to One-fourth Part of Fivv Copyhold and Free hold Public-houses, situate in and near to Colchester, m the county of Essex, oa the death of a lady • 63. and now Pricing on lease £310 per annum -By Messrs. HOGGART and NORTON, at the Auction Mart, on Friday, January 13 instead of December 16, as before advertised , at Twelve, , , , , HE Absolute REVERSION, on the death of a lady, aged 63, to one-fourth part of five copyhold and freehold public houses, situate as under The Red Lion, with stables, yards, garden, foe., at Thorrington, about nine miles from Colchester the Red Lion, with the brewhouse, stables, foe., at Folleshunt D'Arcy,t n miles from Colchester the Blue Bril, and nearly an acre of land, 4 the Old Hythe, In the borough of Colchester the Black Boy, with orchard and premises, at Werleigh, ten miles from Colchester and T the Half Mooh ot Weavers' Arm£ with cottage and premises adjoin ing. in Middleburgh-street, in the borough of C r Colchester. Theabovo bouses are all in good trade, and art let on lease for a terra of four teen year from Lady-day, 1833, at a rental of £3i per annum.-M ay bo viewed by leave of the tenants and particulars had at the Cuns, Colchester of Messrs. Pritchard and Collett, LincoWi-inn-fleW at the Auction Mart aud of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 64, O.d Broad-street. in tbe heart n 00 per an-the tenant Recommended L, ... . Rev. T. Raffles, LL.D., Liverpool. J.Pye Smith, D.D., Horn. College. W. B.Collyer, D.D , Peck-ham. J. Morrison, D.D., Chelsea. Adam Thomson, D.D., Cold stream. J. Harris, D.D., Epsom. Jotiah Pratt, B.D., Vicar ef St. 8tephen't, Coleman-street. G. Collieon, D.D.. Hackney. F. A. Cox, D.D., Hackney. J. Sherman, Surrey Chapel. J. Young, Albion Chapel. ' nonials have also been racer kut.iicu iuiBister ! • _ ,hn Clay ton, Jun.,Hackney. J. A. James, Birmingham. R. Philip, Matwrly Chapel. J. Gilbert. Islington. J. Davis, Bristol. G. I gge, Bristol. W. Brown, Bristol. T. Blnney, Weigh-Houss. Samuel Luke. Chester. James Parsons, York. John Ely, Leeds. Samuel Ransom, Hackney. H. Calderwood, Kendal. J. Sibree, Coventry. G. Lawson, Selkirk, foe. foe. foe. foe. Testimonials have ateo been received from nearly one hundred of tha moat iuflu' ntial clergymen of America. London George Virtue, 26. Ivy-lano, and all booksellers. Valuable Reversion to an extensive Freehold Property, in tl of the City of London, producing a rental of nearly 700 nuro ateo aa Annuity of £100, payable during the life of th for life.-By Messrs. HOGGART and NORTON, at the Mart, on Friday, January 13, at Twelve, in One Lot. A Very valuable REVERSIONARY INTEREST, expectant upon the death of a lady aged 48 to an important Freehold Property, occupying a large site of ground in the centre of the city of London, comprising nearly the whole of Three King-court, Lombard street three dwelling houses and shops. Nos. 5, 6, and 7, Nag's Head-court, Lombard-street three dwelling houses, counting houses, and premise . Nos. 1,2, and 3, on the west side of a passage leading from Three King-court to LoHibard-atr et and a dwelling house. No. 4, on the north side of a passage leading into Clement's-lar.e also the extensive warehouse, dwelling house, snd business premises, situate on tbe north and cast sides a passage leading from Three King-court into Lombard-street, on lease to Messrs. Prlco and Gosnell tie whole of this valuable property pro ducing rentals amounting together to nearly £700 per annum. A so an Annuity of £100, most amply secured payable during the life of the lady aged 48, whe is tenant for life, so that the purchaser will be in receipt of an income of £100 per ann. until the death ol the life tei.nnt. whvn he will become pMMMed of the valuable property in reversion t it U subject to the payment of £3,8 4 within sisimonths of the death of the tenant for life.-Particulars may be had of Messrs. Maltby nd Beachcroft, Old Broad-street of .Messrs. BourdiUon and Son. Great Winchester-street at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton. 62, Old Bread- street. Royal Exchange. Freehold Rental of £50 per Annum, arising out of a capital Baker's P hop and Premise , situate at the corner of Walkert-court, Peter-.treat. In the p ri.h ol 8t. Jranra, Weriiyn.Ur.-Merer,. HOGOART .nd NORTON, at the Mrat on FrW y. Jen. M, it IS. A Well-sccured FREEHOLD RENTAL of i80 per Annum, wiria, oat of on .13.ll.nt baker 1 , .hop and pra-mlwa. situate in P.ter. tre t, at the corner of W.lker'i-court. In the p.rlih of 8t. JtniH. W.itmlmUr coroprlilnu ep.clou. doable-tronred .hop, -Ith b t.houw, flour room, rad loft oy.r, rad con-renl.nt dwalling-hraii. attach... Th. .Ito.tlon i. In .aery populou. F nel.hbourho-i.ond the bueineM now carrying on I. of . v.rr ..t-n-. .tv. nature. The pramira. ran held by Mr. Arthur, a rary reipraubl. Neatly bound raid jilt, price W., . tenant, under lew. for a Lrm of al yew , at a moderate rental of 'LIES in AMBER beiog Charges ongintklly ,rnato square at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 62, Old Broad-street, Royal Exchf ige, M r. CAFE and SON will SELL by AUCTION, at their Rooms, Great Marlborough-gtreet_ _THI8 DAY, Butterflies in Amber these Charadis might without presuraptien, so varleusly pretty and BT fu o they teem to us, and as suitable to the garden beneh as to the Christmas flre-i rintA t for B Bowdery and Kerby of whom may be had, fjitite,their Catalogue of the Works of aU the most spproved nritoin Ml e use of young people, and where may be seen tne ifroatest variety of Bibles, Prayers, and Church Services in very superior flntehed bindings.-190, Ox ford-street, between OrchMti-street and Duke-street. MILLION OF FACTS.-Recently published, price J2s T HE MILLION of FACTS or, Book of Reference on .very •ubiwtof tentlflc.Llter.ry, Hl.tnrld, •nd Political Enquiry. By Sir RICHARD PHILLIPS. AIM the following Element.ry Book, for Bchools.prlce 1 ., Th Co titutio al CATICBUIC. By Sir R. Phillip,. Wut aud Bbc.osb, By th. Rev. David Blair. Fl.ST Lull Of AMTHM.TIO. , ditto. n th. Rev J Abbidomiht of th. OEAMMAa of GioaRAi'iir. By th. Rev. J. GoMimith. Darton and CUrk, H.lhorn-hlll at their Room., Great M.rlboroufh rtr .t THIS DAT, nnd followlnu day,at 12 precisely, modem FURNI1URB oomprUinn four post and French bedstead, with chinti hanging a beddinn, wlnjrf rad other wardrobe., chrat t drewera, dreratn table, and drawln, room curtain., rosewood couchta, of and chair., loo, c.ru, Jd work Ublm. wln,ed cabin t . brilliant pUte pSde.tal atdebo.rdM ret. ofdlmn, Ublei, cbMra, library Iwokcrara, table, and chaira. Axmln.ter.ndBruraele carpel., horiionud, cabinet, and Miuare pianoforte, by Brondwood. Clementt. rad Zeitter. n euteraio. . tf-actinir pianoforte, . 12ft. billiard table with Mate b!d! f m.'rb . b.th chin.?W . Pitted article., rad kitchen requl-.lion-May bo vieww!. and catalogue hnd. jug, publish , price a ., . S TRICTURES of the URETHRA their Caoiek Nature. ConteUueneM, rad Cure. With rwl g.i fjto g ferent mode, of t mrat hitherto practised is illustrated Dy numerou cumso, f eM 0 o, ave iJ cdU ra rnueerUl remov d seller in town or ceantry. ■ --Juit pohllkhed, price . ed ad tent free oa receipt of p et-ofllce Pitemactey-, M, Quadras Ad that the levy ia WMfr pended. The Suffrein French line-of-bettle ship arrival Kre from Brest yesterday, Admiral c L n d h er 1 i is said she will go to Kio de Janeiro. The French have also here the IguaL corvette and Volage brig of war and it is said that two more vessels are expected. The government has carried retrenchment into effect to some extent, but all this wL little avail if let slip, and something be not do to p T J? re tST astrous results that would ensue to Portugal were to Spanish treaty to be concluded, and things here remain 4 th A y conUwct has been made with the Conffanfa C ® JW the object ol which is to alter the mode of paymeutci the balance dne by the government to the company under pre vious contracts and for which some ofthec entreve-nues were pledged, toe company receiving J 1 came in. The company take the balance, contos, in bills falling due on the 10th of , bruary, and so on till June next nnd the decima and other revenues 1 the end o made with the tooacco coniracwia, duct of the decima of 1840-1841, had been pl dgr d for t s repayment of a balance of 312 contos tois sum isinowto be repaid, partly by deducting • 5 k Pl r S monthly paymenu of 100 contos each, which have to make to toe government, but chfefly by bills re ceivable at the Custom-house for the tobacco duty, toe latter being to the amount of 220 conto . . . It has been asserted by toe opposition journals that • French loan of 1,000 contos of reis is on H e tapis, but to ministerial papers deny that there is any foundation tor th I 'hear'that toe Spanish government dehvering up oi the Gloria, alias Grande Antilla, to VmenU oa toe ground that as toe court at that the paperB by which she was converted from a Spaman to a Portuguese vessel were irregular, the traujer wm coneequently not complete, and she remained Spanwn, an as such ought to be given up. Thie ia a quear the affair, and would give rise to great abuses if listened to by Portugal. , - , The following article from the National is a rood speci men of the view taken by the French partisans here of the events alluded to. It is entitled The executions at Barce lona and the treaties with England. The accounts received respecting the blood which legs vengeance has shed in toe capital are not uniform but to# reports concerning the projects of the authorities seem to indicate that moderation will be unknown there. In Spain civil dissensions have always been accom panied by the moat horrible tragedies out expeneno# ought to cot vince the Spaniards that such means ure en tirely ansuited to gain whatever ends, and the prograss ot civilization ought t soften this barbarity. . Would that the Regent would become aware of to evils that bloodshed must infallibly bring to his authonty, to his reputation, and to toe interest ol toe Queen her self. Can it be true, however, what is said of the share that England has taken in the bad treatment received by un-' y Barcelona? It would little surprise us. The question was to annihilate the industry of a con tinental stale, to remove the embarrassment that a manu facturing province opposed to the consumption oi English goods and the British arms have never fired a shot unless to facilitate the sale of some yards of cottons, or some boxes of poison. For this reason we are disposed to believe all that we hear in this sense. , . But we are also persuaded that thoee who now shoot Spaniards to serve Englishmen will not long be considered as Spaniards. But be it how it may, it appears beyond doubt, that the events of Barcelona although still wrapt in the darkest mystery are, at least on one side, in intimate relation with the efforts oi toe English to conclude a treaty of commerce with the Spanish government and it appears equally certain that this treaty is either already made, or, at to least, is inevitable. We shall now see whether the advocates of conventions of this kind between ourselves and England will at last open their eyes we shall see whether toe effects of our treaty will or will not be such as we have so often said-the ruin of our manufactures induetria , without any be nefit for our wines. Already bound by the treaty, and dependent on th English government respecting the duties in both countries, we shall pe sacrificed by England toe instant she shall have arranged her affairs with our neighbours. Ths scale of duties will be against us both in the ports of Portugal and of England. In addition to so many internal causes of rain, ther will fall upon us toe weight of calamity prepared by onr moet natural and moat cruel enemies our country 1 destined to be converted into a desert. This is a fair specimen of the language held by our adver saries here they would not make treaty with ns them selves, neither wonld they allow us to make one with Spain. In whose interest can they write ? The question is an swered by putting another questionWhat power is moet interested In preventing our making treaties with either Portugal or Spain, by which the wines and brandy of those countries would find Increased consumption in England, and British manufactures increased consumption in the Peninsula ? The Queen has this year again relinquished 50 contos of her income, and the King-Consort 40 contos, in consequence of the necessitous state of the Treasury ths Portaria ot Baron Tojal announcing the fact is dated the 23d Instant. Some one apparently well acqnainted with the affairs ot the Lisbon Fishery Company has published an account of their actual state on the 30th of September last, from which It appears that toe company, which is now In to seventh year of Its existence, has sunk and lost 70 per cant, of its capital toe latter amounted to 474 contos, being cash actually received from the shareholders while toe cash In hand on th 30tb of September, toe vessels, and all other effects of the company, Including a number of abandoned shares, See., are estimated altogether at only 188 eon to#, showing a deficit of 336 contos, and this, nomtoetandtog all the encouragement it hu rtorived from th legislature, whleh, to bolster It up, hu levied such heavy dude oa foreign ult fish. The British steamer of war Locust cam In from England for ooal on Thursday, and left the next day for Malta. The Portuguese ship Affonto d'Alboq'ierqtieleft fer Angola and Moeamblque on Saturday, taking 300 convicts for torn colonies. ' _ The Suffren, French Un of battle ship, whlehou anchor when she came in almost on the opposite side ri ™ rivar, has since been towed to toi aid , and taken up • near the shore, which does not look like leaving. It • ported, I know not on what grounds, that a F'-' dron, under toe oommand of an admiral. here for th# present. Oldham,-A Sign of p t iraJtew 0 T r har- V' Millor, and J. Bsqr clast of ntt-payen, ra3 P-makers, Sec., in Oldham arrears of poeftr rate. .7 arrangements fer paym r -MandUior Timor. ... fi l
1 2 EXETER FLYING POST, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8. Waste Is overcome by giving the body proper and sufficient nourishment. When waste is active and you are losing flesh and strength, take Scott's Emulsion the Cream of Cod-liver Oil. It will overcome the waste by giving ample nourishment. Physicians, the world over, endorse it. Soott t Bowue, Limits , Loodea, E. C. AU chemist 2 6 and t 6. contains to secure in the following lines-a rare cnance to w.ui faMtK Wh S8g T K ot paying it away for other people s gam . Is not TRY TO-DAY! - paying it away 1 r _ r this worth your while ? Carefully read on and follow the simple instruction . You know that the manu facturer supplying thousands daily can do so at LESS THAN HALF the price charged bjr shopkeepers selling only one in the same time. is mst our position. SEND YOUR NAME to day for my Splendid Pictorial Guide Book, glowing with over a thou sand illustrations of my world-r 1. ..-, -tamed manufactures. I send with each a full list of my £2 000 FREE REWAftCl Prire Distribution. ' As read, thorwandshasten to suare and to post their orders. TAKE PEN AND PAPER. I MM you c ts ' re an l enclose Post Office Order for the amount. IWILL fR'STrrY FORWARD, free and safe by pest registered, into your own hands, my mar-- Real Silver Acme Watch for Lady or Gentleman. A splendid three-quarter-plate, extra movement, sound and accurate. Lady's sire, with richly-engraved cases and with dial beautifully tinted or plain, as preferred. Both sizes are remarkably neat and exact, yet strong and enduring. FIVE YEARS WARRANTY AND A MONTH'8 FREE TRIAL ALLOWED. Grand Value. Worth 3 Guineas. My price. 25s, A Thousand supplied per week. For this month only I undertake to supply a Second Quality of this Remarkable Watch, in Real Silver Cases, rnce during this month, for the SECOND Oil ALITY 15 I recom mend this watch as strong and durable. WO EpVEP, to all readers s Beautiful Albert .ilar in appearance as costly real GIFT, entirely in addition 0 . . . 1, particulars of which are tuny set lorui in the separate sheet, Nos. xoi, 9p7 0S9, which accompanies my Pictorial Guide Book. Purchasers therefore receive Double Gilts this week! The IMMENSE SUCCESS of H. samue! s famous watches has flooded the market with worthless imitations, offered under various delusive names, ouch imitations are frequently the sweepings of the market, and soon show their base character. T 1 - I H. Samuel's Watches are always reliable ! Always Valuable! Always Satisfactory ! Refuse all imita tions and send to H. Samuel direct. You will be amazed at the splendid value re ceived as shown in the THOU SAND AND ONE Startling Bargains shown in my 1 Pictorial Guide. DoublPrizes. Watches 75. to £35. Gold and Silver Jewellery at largely reduced prices. Alberts, Brooches, Bangles. Scarf-pins, Ac., from is. Grand value in Cruets, Teapots, Knives, Forks, Spoons, Clocks, c. Wholesale Prices. Also hundreds of remarkable Testimonials and the above-mentioned sheet, containing full particulars of THOUSANDS HASTEN. J mend this watch as strong -_ who ent out the Coupon and send it with their order, 1 will enclose TH No, 101,997, m. £2000. SPECIAL EXTRA GIFT. H. SAMUEL'S GRAND FREE REWARD BOND AND SPECIAL EXTRA GIFT COUPON. EXETER FLYING POST. Cot thi out and endow it with V.U. order, aa H. Sfcmod bind himself to send the Acme Watch at the reduced price of 25a., as dtwerilxyl above, and to enclose a magnificent Pri Tree, together with a Lidys or Gentleman's beautiful PUtoride Gold Albert Chain Free, ai an Extra Special Gift. i-nadj H. SAMUIL P.O. Order to be raodo payable to H. Samuel, at the General Pent Office, Mancheeter. Oy Note that it la absolutely necessary to send this Coupon in order to receive my special ►xtra gift albert. DOUBLE PRIZES. H. SAMUEL, H. SAMUEL'S Grand Frcc Rewards. I send this interesting book to anv address on application, WORLD-FAMED ENGL -xoi, 89, and its, MARKET 8TREET, MANCHESTER-97i 99. Gold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1878. Ifce prize Medal, Dublin Exhibition, 1866. OF OLD IRISH WHISKIES. FURF,. -MIU . and MELLOW. DELICIOUS, and VERY WHOLESOME. HttfHEST SCOTCH WHISKY SOLD gmtm-nen STKKET, YORK ROAD, LAMBBTH, 8.E. To Sportsmen, Footballers, Athletes, c. O S NOT FOR HORSES • Oxemo tea mot! wonderful prepara tion for tho r !r u ol pain-tor outward japalioatioa oaly, aad is phrloctly wjnleas dura tot blitter the ikM. It TOt UVtUH VBB OKLT. JOB Jh OBE OF THE QUICKEST REMEBTIS RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SPRAINS, PAINS in the l ms, ' '■ 7 f CHEST, o. Ifc I iawvsts SORt If ' -Vmritt. - '• tera ltMolre llttta lUin-lmr end ha, ate, smslL W don • £ our nl l isthw r. ore effective hau a-iy almUar rrtieie A ,9 send postal ordor or stamp direct to the depfefc, 12, Berners St, Oxford St., London,W. The best remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Heartburn, Headache, Gout and Indigestion and the safest Aperient for delicate Constitutions, Ladies, Children, and Infants. SOLD THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. aaaastess # ■ saess? JiJHLJHW-At ' These Remedies havs stood the test of upwards of TIFTY YEARS' EXPERIENCE, And are pronounced the B a Medicines for Family use Manufactured only at 78, NEW OX1-ORD STREET, LONDON AND SOLD BY ALL MECICJNB VENDORS THROUGHOUT THe WORLD. Advlee Gratis ct tho abore swldre , dally, betwoen th© bom of 11 and 4, or by letter. . Tfw Southend Murder, ExMiltiop of Reed. Junes Csnbun Read, popularly known as the Southend murderer, was executed at Chelmsford on Tuesday. About half-pa t seven the Under-Sheriff Sir. Gepp drore up with his quaintly-attired marshal on the box of the eoach, and a moment after wards the prison bell began to toll at short intervals. The two reporters who were to represent the public entered with the Under-Sheriff, and ten minutes of suspense were spent in the Governor's room in hushed con versation. Billington, who came to Chelms ford from London at half-past three on Monday and bad slept at the gaol, came in harriedly for some final instructions, and a moment later the gaol surgeon Dr. E. Hunt Carter was sent for. He was only absent for a minnte or two, and remarked on his return that the convict had asked for a stimulant, and had been given some branny, his chief anxiety, however, being as to the quickness and painlessness of his end. Dr. Carter assured him that he would feel nothing whatever, and Read appeared to be satisfied. Before this breakfast-a plain one, of bread and butter-bad been e.Ven in the presence of the Chaplain, who said that Read was very grateful to him, and soem-d to pay attention to his ministrations The culprit had also slept well. Two or three minutes more an-' the Under-Sheriff and the Chaplain - H' e latter in his black gown-went down a few steps to the great central hexagon of the prison. Billington-A UTILE MAN IN A LIGHT SUIT, and wearing a light travelling cap-was already there,and at two minutes before eight entered the door of the first cell in one of the pass.ges Read appeared to be prepared. He was wearing the light grey clothes which he had on at the trial, ,md on his head was a light cap like that of the executioner. Mr. Gepp asked for the last time if he had anything to say. He replied that be had only to thank the governor and all the officials for their continued kindness ever since he had been in the gaol. His beard was black and bushy. He was wearing a white collar which should have buttoned at tho back of tho neck, but was left open there, and as he passed from the cell into the central hall and thence into the open air he was supported by warders, bat their help seemed needless, f r he walked firmlv and looked resolute, though his face was pale and his pinioned hands twiched convulsively behind him. As the bell struck a further knell the Chaplain began to read the Burial bervice--• I am the resurrection and the life, and the warders outside fell in behind the little procession. It was only a step or two to the foot of the gallows - a ponderous cross erected in a little shed. Read, though stoutly built, is really a little man weighing just under nine stone, and a drop of 7ft 8ln was allowed. Quietly enough he took his place ou the trapdoor placing bis feet where Billington directed. Almost before tho last on tho warders had made his way through the narrow doorway all w g over. Across the drop a couple of blaok-palnted planks were laid, and on these the stalwart ward r who held the slight criminal by the left arm took bis stand, but even then the support appeared to he unnecessary for Read held himself as if somebody else rather than he were chiefly concerned, and only muttered to Billington in an undertone, Button my coat. These were HI8 LAST WORDS. The executioner pinioned the convict's feet the arms had been fastened in the cell-snatched off and droped upon the scaffold the cap which Read had been wearing, and adjusted the noose with what sounds like a murmured word of apology. The piece of rubber which keeps the knot in position was at once drawn tight, tf o white cap was ont of Billington s pocket and over Read's head, and then almost before those in the shed knew that the end had come the executioner stepped lightly to the lever and rested upon it for a moment. The trapdoore parted and Read's body diopptd plnmb to swing round in sickening fashion at the end of the rope eight feet below. A twitch or two of the limbs was noticed, but these, the dootor assured those present, were only due to the reflex notion of the muscles, and the neck had bssn broken, deatn consequently being Immediate and painless. Round and round tbc ghastly figure swung as the little party retired only a warder or two an 5 Billington being le.t near the corpse while it hung duringtl.e specified hour prior to the inquest, BEAD MADE NO CONFESSION. He died as lie had lived during these latter weeks, protesting his innocence to his family, and declining to say anything at ail to the gaol suthorilies. Subsequently an inquest was held on the body, and the usual formal verdict was returned. Read's last, letter, written a few hours before his death, was as follows -H.M. Prison, Chelmsford, Dec. 2nd, 1£94 Dear Harry,-In spite of the truth nd in dehince of the eviflenco presented to him proving my innocence, the Home Secretary has endorsed the murderous conspiracy of his professional brethren. Blood, I pre-suma, is, thicker than water, and cliqueism' is stronger than justice. I have written to him this afternoon asking if the inquiries I suggested h Te beer, fully made and pointing out that if truthfully answered, then he is acting In defence of evidence. 11 -sen for an opportunity to procure th- ie proofs which the neglrot of my legal representatives kept from judge and jury. My mouth thus being sealed, I have beforehand referred him i,o the medical eviderce, which showed that the girl was murdered between twelve midnight 24 6 uni 25 6. and that four witnesses at Alts. Clothier's, So, 1, Granville Villas, South-road, Southend, could answer for my being in ted the whole of that time, and now ho says there has not been prodooed sufficient proof. Is not this monstrous? Is it not murder? If this is not proof of my innocence where for God's sake is there proof of ray e_ 'Ic ? Hope to see you to-morrow f.Monday With fondest love for all the loved ones at home, y-utrs always, ,T C Read.'' Mrs. Clothier, of 1, Grcsham-villo . 8outh-Churoh-road, Southend, where Read alleged in his last letter that he slept on the night. previous to the murd-r, left Southend about six weeks ago. and the house is now unoccu pied. but from enquiries made of Armada-villas,Sonthchuroliyroad.ittranspires that her husband, Mr. Sicely, was interviewed by Detective-Inspector Baker a d Super intendent Hawtree some -lavs ago, in conse quence of a stntemontin Read's petition to tito Home Secretary. Mr. Sicely upon being shown a photo of Read at one recognised it as to the mart who breakfasted with hirn at Mrs. Clethier's on the Sunday morning before the tragudy at No 1. Gresham Villas, where Mr. Sicely was at the time lodging. 3 i V GOTH a As 30K BfflP - - FILLS FOR ALL BILIOUS AND NERVOUS DISORDERS, SUCH AS Sick Headache, OQwstlpatson, IMmk Stomaefi, iM Digestion, pgs rfSsffed Uyer Female Aliments. Prepared only by the Proprietor. Thomas Bebchak, St. Helens. Lancashire, in boxoBj Pii., la.'lid- sad ad. each, with foil direetkae. Sold eyetraheja. Potato Blight n Ireland. Mr. Sexton, M.P., writing to Mr. John Morley on the subject of the potato blight in Ireland, says in certain districts famine is impending during the approaching winter-not only among the labouring classes, but among small farmers, and suggests Govern ment relief in the form of loans to small occupier-', and a renewal of the provisions of the Seed Supply Act. The writer adds that the last Government spent nearly three-quarters of a million more in Jrelar l in two years than the present Government in the same period. Dirt thinks itself the- meat abnsed When MATC HLEaS CLEANSER SO APis used. Archery is ascribed to Ap -11 , who com municated it the Cretans. On Tuesday evening Sergeant W'illiam Phillips, of the corps of Commissionaires, was knocked down and killed by a train at High Barnet Station. Mr CbamberlHin has undertaken to write a short introduction to Or. Gould's forth coming book on Popular Control of the Liquor Traffic, which has been written for the Public House Reform Association, and embodies the results of three scientific investigations of the Sohandinavian system made in Sweden and Norway by American experts. DELICIOUS' MAZAWAT-EE TEAS Dk'I.rrtrtUS MAZAtVATTEE TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATTICK TEAS In Decorated Tins for XMAS. PRESENTS ■ Ljushng F amii Jr Gao-tsua EvaanrHsms r 'PA . if, a xz th.r~k.it 1H r E °!t9 EST ArJD BEST.-THE QUEEN tne Lady • News pa er says- Having made a fresh trial of its virtnee, after considerable experience with other compoa ids of the same natrire, we feel no hesitation in recommending its ase to housewives who are n any diScalty in polisaing their furniture. -December 22. 1883. Sold by Gkoci is, Chemists, Ibonmonokrs, Cabinet Makkus, Brush Dsalbbs, Oilmen, Ac. ManufactoryVallby-iwad, SHSPFIELD. Caution.- -See that the Name is on the bottle, and beware of cheap imijati ons. TorPjD Liver. Headache PURELY VEGETABLE. SUGAR COATED mMMmM All Chemists Is. l£d. Small Pill Small Dose Small Price. o NE BOX OP OLABKE'S B 41 PILLS is warr nte ra core all discharges from tb? Urinary Organs, in either tex, acqnirei or constitu tional, Orw and PaiLt in the Back. Gnarantee-fre from Mercury. Bold in boxes, 4e 6t each, by al l Chemists and Patent Medicine vendors throughout th World or mi to any address, forfiO iamp by tht Maker , the Lincoln and Midland Counties Drag Com • puny, Lincoln. HAIR DESTROYER. J AMES'S DEPILATORY Instantly Remuie Superfluous Hairs from tho Faoe, Noffc yr Arms, without Injury to the Skin. Of mt s Chemist Is. or sent, with directions for use, fit rom observation, post free, for ilftoen stamps.-Mrs. Jamju, 3W, CoJeJonlAn-road, London, N A. CLEA.R COMPLEXION. piMPLFS or biack Speck , Sanborn, Freckles, an ! ■ unkightly blotchei on the Faca. Neok, Arms, and Hand , can be instantly removed by using Mr . .TAMKS'S HERBAL OINTMENT, rnadn from herb only, and wa'ranted harm 1ms. It impart ach a ovely clearness to the skin that astonished ever' one. Of all Chemist , 1 l d. A box with directions sent free from chfcreation, post free, on receipt of flfbeeu stamps to Mr . James. 268. Caledonian.raad, London, N. LUXURIANT HAIR. T CNG, PLOWING EYELASHES. EYEBROWS. s, are TTICKLY PRODUCED by n in JAMES'S HERBAL POMADE. It is invaluable for the produc tion of Whisker , Beard , and Monptachie itoanvet toe hair to errow on bald place and scanty partings. Of molt Cbemista, 1 or a box of it sent, free from obaervation. poa free, for flft cn stamps.-Mrs James, ?A8 Ca'Honiai road, Lon dr u. Training v. Numbers. In presenting prizes to the 1st Lanark Volunteers on Tuesday at Glasgow, Lord Roberts said that if there were 400,000 Volunteers at the beginning of this century there should now be one million. It was not however, numbers.bnt trained men who were needed in the hour of danger. If cumbers were needed we should not hold our position in India, for frequently we fought against enormous odds there. We bad now the spectaole of China, withbsr countless hordes, sning for pence to little Japan, whose a-my and navy were well equipped. REDUCED PRICES. 0 H.S.€RUM£_CUUJCfSTER. SEND FOR CATALOGUE. iitl m THE GREAT REMEDY. GOUT v 3s? X T-? !Ls £3 • GOUT . FOR RHEUMATISM. SCI AT 04 LUMBAGO NEURALGIA-Tho EX l 'RU r 'IA T ING PAIN is qniokly tolieved and cured in a few days bv these cel.-brated Pills. Sure, Safe, and effectual.! Sold by all Chemists at la ljd and 2s 9d par box. .1, . i...-. It was on Monday decide I lo wind jp ttio Bournemouth, Swansge, mid Poole Steam-packet Company. Tno balance sheet shewed a loss of £834 Is 5d on the year's working.! It was stated that the directors contemplate a scheme for reconstructing the company, I - ■ ' - -POLISHING-A PLEASURE ! STEPHENSON'S FURNITURE Shocking Crane Fatality. While a number of men were engaged Mon day at,the New Central Railway, Mary Hill, Glasgow, the gearing of a crane gave way and it fell among them. John Smith and James McGregor were terrioly injured, Smith dying soon afterwards. A third man nai less seriously hurt. Shocking Hunting Fatality. While following the Ccbold Hounds at Sand hurst near Gloucester, on Tuesday, Mr. Hunt landlord of the Fleece Hotel, Cheltenham, met with a fatal accident. His horse jumped short at a fence and threw Mr. Hart, who held on to tho reins. He was kicked in tbe throat and died within a few minutes of the occurrence. The Hopegood Case. At the Sussex Assizes on Monday, George Honegood pleaded guilty to causing a false entry to be made in a register of marriages at Brighton, but not guilty to other counts charging him with forgery and theft. The prosecution accord ingly intimated that they would offer no evidence on these counts. Mr. Gill addresied the Court in mitigation of punishment, and bis Lordship passed sentence of nine months' hard labour. Sudden Death of a Preacher. At, Pensham, in tho county of Dorht.iw, on Sunday afternoon, John Smith, a prcaoher, while in the middle of delivering a special missionary sermon, was seen to snddenly reel backwards. Ho expired before assistance could be rendered to him. The congregation, which was a largo one, was greatly affected by the tragic conclusion of the service. Exactly forty years Ago another preacher, also named John Smith, died as suddenly in the same pulpit. Magistrate Committed Trial. for Will Mot Fin-te. CREAK Sold hy Chemists, Gmeets, o.'id Iron onr cr SOLE PROPRIETORS-STEPHENSON BROS., BRADFORD. At Mansion House Polios Court on Thesday, Alfred Templeton Hawkins was charged on remand with having appropriated with intent to defraud the National Dwellings Company of which he was managing director, cheques for the aggregate sum of over £4,000. Defendant desired a further post-pro icrrent of the case, but to thi coarse strong objection was taken by the prosecution, and ultimately after some additional evidence Hawkins was committed for trial. Strange Case of Mistaken Identity. An extraordinary oase of mistaken identity has just been reported to the Glasgow police. On October 29ththe bodvofe your.gman was found floating in the Clyde and was identified i s that of Alexander Smith, 24 years of age, blacksmith residing in ltenton. The father, two sisters, and an amir making identification. The remains were buried by tiia relations at a cost of £3. On Friday night last , the Smith family were awakened from their slumbers by someone knocking at the j door. The father shruted out Who's j there ? and was almost paralysed with astonishment on hearn It's me, Alec, in his son's well-known voice. It turned out that young Smith after he left home had tramped to England in search of work and had been employed in Blackburn for two or three weeks when be returned home again. la universal use since tbe dawn of the century. A tried and trusted family medicine, prescribed by medical men for the common ailments of every, day life, such as ACIDITY. HEARTBURN. INDIGESTION. BILIOUSNESS. SICK HEADACHE. - - --- IL DISORDERED LIVER These famous Pills cleanse and regulatethe whole system,leaving it free from all impurities. They carry off all unhealthy humours are admirable in women's ail ments, overcoming all irregulari ties and maintaining the system in health, strength, and vigour. To use them always is to keep yourself in perfect health-the bowels free, the liver active, the head clear, and the skin and com plexion free from blemish, n, IN USE FOR 94 YEARS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. Cockle's Pills are purely vegetable-warranted free from mercur. M t be had throughout the United Kingdom, in boxeeat Is l£d, It 3d, 4s 6d, 11 , and 22s. 4 GREAT OBMOND ST., LONDON. W f! Action Against a Nswspaper. The trial was concluded at Liverpool Assize on Tuesday before Mr. Justice Wills of the action for I bel by Isaac B. Rose, member of the 8t. Helen's Town Council, against the St. Helen's Advertiser. Plaintiff contended that two leading articles which hid appeared in the newspaper regarding h s action in the Town Council had held him op to ridicule The defence was that the refer ences were not actuated by any ill-feeling toward the plaintiff. Tbe jury awarded plain tiff £200 damages. The Australian Rabbit War. It is stated that a new met! oi. hiving for its object he complete extermination of th rabbit pest, is being adopted in New South Wales and Victoria with much success. Inextinguishable cartridges genera ting copious and penetrating volumes of deadly smoke or poisonous ga are placed in the burrows, the aperatures cf which are then closed. Phosphorus being the only chemical known to science possess ing the property of burning without air sr.d having a special affinity for oxygen, the abstraction of this within the closed hole suffocate and buries by one process the old and young together. The Collision in the North Sea. Light is thrown on the identity of the steamer supposed to have foundered off the Norfolk coast after collision with . e stsamer Albertina by the receipt of a telegram at Yarmouth on Tuesday stating that the oil tank steamer Lncerna, of Hull, had arrived at that port damaged amidships through having been in collision with a steamer in the North geaon Sunday in the fog. The fact that the Lueerna's damage was amidships confirms tho stoty of the captain of the Albertina, who stated that he struck a large steamer which was brought up. and th Albertina's stem was completely smashed. The Lucerna is a large three-masted s'eanrer of 3 242 tons, owned by a Hull company. ExquisiteMndel Perfect Kit Guaranteed Wei ngu y a PATFNT niAUOSAT. 9FAM COWBT. v not split it. th i arr.s nor ? tear in the Fabric. Made m White, Plack, and ail t.' s fashionable Colours and Shad- a in Italian Cloth, Satin ar Coutil also in the new 8aii tar Woollen Cloth. 4 11, 5 11, 611, 7 11 per pair nd upwards. TRUER GOT.n J4K7 A Caution .-Beware of Worth less Imitations. Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters. William the Conqueiv? is slid to bate originated the system of snrnarae . Westminster Hall is the largest room on-supported by pillars in the world. Hudson's is tbe Soap to buy. As everybody knows-It quickly drives the dirt away. But won't wear out the clo'hc ' Camels are the only animals that cannot swim immediately they enter the water they tarn on their backs and die. Chafed Skin, Piles,Scalds. Chilhia.M Chapped Hands, Sore Kyi-. . Sunburn Earache, Neuralgic, and Rheumatic Fla .'. Throat Colds, and Skin Ailments q'iiok'y relieved by use of Calvert's Carbolic 0 r ' roent. Larpe Pols 13yd at • C- or post free for value. -F. C Calvert and Co., Manchester. The Marquess of Granby, M.P, in a !ette r to the Licensed Victuallers' Association a! Lo ices ter, states that his sympathies m0 entirely with the trade in the present crisis, to long as it is conducted in a legitimate and orderly manner. In Washing. MATCHLESS CLEANSER • perfect Treasure, It saves P'ueh work and rim , to nw pleasure. A house dinner will be held at the D vca an Clun, Ashley's Hotel, London, cn Monday next. A Cinderella dance is announced for January 17th at St. Martin's Town Ha! 1 - it having been decided to discontinue tbs annaal ball. CONSniPTION-AND AST MA worM. and •' lr.Iadiv . According to the Anthropological Society of Pari , the longest bear-1 in the world belongs to an artiran of Montlucon. It ha not been cut for the last seven years, and measures about 5ft. 3in. I To Tob cconists •• UoMnarrciso. -Write for Ilia, guide to tbs trade 259 pages id, H, j to open a Cigar Store, £20 to £2,000.-Tobacconists' Outfitting Co., IRC, Eustou-ro dj London. M. Jules Simon, who is within a month of his fiOtli birthday, underwent on Monday an operation for cataract Mrs. F SiMmomv- I,aunrlress,Kast.hr,nrne has used Messrs. RE KITTS PARIS BLUE for the past six years, and considers it Unequalled for beauty and economy. Certainly much superior thumb ot Liquid Blu ' I- 1 ' - o' ' I ■ • .ri ov T -The number of persons killed in the rectnt ea-thquake shocks in Southern Italy is officially stated to bo eighty-six. About 600 were injured. The Royal Laundresses says Oritshley's Stikch C .oss is unequalled for impairing beautiful finish to starched linen, fee., either cold or boiling water starch. Mr.- Cornwall, sa,s - My wife will not finish our linen withoutyour Starch .Boss. Mr .-, Bradford - Dear Sir, 1 am pleased to inform you that I have tried many so-called Sta. h Glo ses and Poishes, hut 6nd none equal to yours. It should be used in every house. hold at Id. 3d, and 6d by most starch se'V-r-. -f a t in storit will procure it.-C-iTCKr.vv, Blackpool, Proprietor. Some sensation has been caused at Swansea by the absence of the new l ord Swansea from his f ther's funeral. There had been family differences. BRONCHITIS I will demonst-ate to the whole suff rers from these unfortunate sir. they can be permanently cured, by an T.' ~ New Method of Treatment, without tbe char e of failure. Write with full confidence to Mr Williams, 11, Burwood-place, Norfolk-crescrr.-, Louden. He will send you full particulars free, of all charge. Arthur Kendall, 21, a clerk, of Hull, was sentenced to death at trie York Assizes for the murder of John Russell. A Times second edition telog'lpn f rc -'' Buenos Ayres states that the new--.e s • ir '' U1 fingt ho reduction of i be capita! mid inf r-'-t on the guaranteed railways withon' one consideration for the obligation of the ■ u ment to the companies. At Bow-street Police Court on Safurdr.r, Charles Wilson, waiter, and Henry Wi! r -his brother, were remanded on a charge conspiring with other men to defraud Vr Blnke, of Tiverton, by meat of forged telegrams relating to betting. DELICIOUS MAZAWATTE? YEAS DELICIOUS MA7AWATT EE TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS In DecoraTim for XMAS. V R r.SKS rs Or LsAmve Famimt Gkocms fivsflvwasB . DU rd the resail roof Bo larnee J PROUl B Pouths.mi TWO -TERESq demand TWO t en the t drawn b.-8 TOC! chased a. ,S AV1 l For thi receive n monthly JJIRKij HOV BfRKRE HOW T r The B particalerj a TO int-j . tfh-l For furl regardingl for New . Alsoto t A FA and fuckl and Co., . I 'A 1 ORIENT Tbe foil under, IT nine davI MELBOij Majesty' pass. Ht Mr. Evi Mr. W 4 Mr. Kv Mr. Dy F. Wei TVholesal 'treat, Lou H te-street. later. buck' , • • w • 
Sept. 13, 1845. the examiner. 587 lose who have ex. Jre, the Bishop of Ihn Russell, Lord anjuises of Chol-of Jennyn and I a subscriber. Fisheries The n the Northum-piggitb Cresswell, ind, are stationed e hundred boats lthe effect of rail ing on the sands Birmingham, and ess than five tons 10 those pl■regard to per-lomises of niar-J perform -In Blacksmith, and J young mantua I mother, were I girl yielded to 1 with child by lthe blacksmith luld not suffer Lit for her but, it against her Icreed that he let, or pay, by 1 banco-about I appealed, but I refused either to marry Oline, or pay her the sum awarded. She, in consequence, was obliged to put the decree in the hands 0 f the Kengensfoged, or King's Provost, an officer spe cially appointed to enforce the judgments of the civil courts. In due exercise of his functions, the Provost, on the 20th ult., went early in the morning, accompanied by a sufficient force, to the house of the recreant blacksmith, and finding him still in bed, made him get up, and con ducted him to the church of St Seviour, where he found Oline with her witnesses, and the clergyman ready at the altar. The Provost having exhibited the decrees of the Court, the priest, in obedience to the laws, commenced the marriage service, and was on the point of pronounc ing the words which would have irrevocably bound the two parties in the bonds of matrimony, when Mikkelsen, who had hitherto preserved a dogged silence, cried out lustily, Stop, stop ! I am willing to pay the damages. The ceremony was suspended, and before he was suffered to depart from the church he gave security for its discharge by instalments. When he came out he found a crowd of the lower orders, who greeted him with hooting and opprobrious cries.-' Galignani.' Duel Prevented.-The duel which was to have taken place at Algiers, between Generals de Bourgon and de Rourjolli, has been prevented by the friendly exhortations of M. Duprech, the Bishop of Algiers. Temperance in Prussia.-The soldiers serving in the Prussian dominions have been allowed by the Govern ment to receive, instead of their daily rations of brandy, the value of the same in money. This step is calculated to promote the principles of the temperance societies, which, through their officers, have formally returned thanks to the King for the privilege thus conferred. The Prince de Joinville.-The following are some of the details of the late tripflMfahe Prince de Joinville across the Channel to the coast of England, and princi pally to Brighton, accompanied by the Minister of Public Works and General d'Houdetot, as we have already noticed -His Royal Highness and his companions, on reaching the floating breakwater, which is placed about three miles from the shore, at Brighton, found that two-thirds of this defence remained entire. They went upon it, and entered the hut erected for the keeper of the light, whom the Prince closely interrogated. This man attri buted the accident to the pertinacity of the constructor in not allowing the mooring chain to be sufficiently strong. Upon this and the other information gained, no doubt was left in the minds of the inquirers as to the solidity of the breakwater itself, which, though incomplete, had for eight moflths sustained all the assaults of the most furious waves, and resisted even the recent hurricane which had done such vast damage in Normandy. By a singular coincidence, his Royal Highness had on his return strong proof of the utility these breakwaters would have on the French side of the Channel, by his vessel, the Pluton, being obliged to make for Havre, instead of enter ing Treport harbour, as she might have done had it been protected by one of them. The future President of Mexico.-The candidate for this office most likely to succeed is General Almonte, the son of a priest named Moreles, who played a distin guished part in the first insurrection. It is said that the name of Almonte originated in the circumstance, that when the insurgents were attacked by the Spaniards, the father's first cry was, El nino al monte! the child into the wood! . Almonte has been partly educated in the United States, and is far superior to the greater number of his fellow-countrymen. Turning the Tables.-The 'Gazette des Tribu-naux furnishes us with the following amusing anecdote - An ancient notary, M. S-, noted for his love of the enjoyments of life and his taste in gastronomy, was lamenting the postponement of the opening of the shoot ing season, which deprived him for ten days of many a delicious morsel, when a man in the furred jacket and cap of a conducteur de diligence came to him and informed him that, on the road to Paris, the Baron de BJa , who was at his country seat at Luc, had desired him to bring to M. S- an enormous basket which, from its appearance, contained not less than half a buck, six hares, twenty quails, and a dozen partridges. The conducteur, in dread of the new game law, refused to take charge of the basket, but was at last induced to do so on the assurance of the Baron that M. S- would find the means of getting it into Paris, if it were but left at Nanterre. After a long conference on the difficulties attending the introduction of this tempting present, the conducteur agreed to undertake this perilous job on receiving 60f., part of which he pretended must be dis bursed by him in bribes. The money was given, and the conducteur departed with confident assurance that the game would be in the epicure's larder before the follow ing morning. The morrow and two successive days having passed over without the delivery of the expected treat, or any notice from the conducteur, M. S- con cluded that he was done out of his 60f., and went to divert his chagrin by taking a walk in the garden of the Palais Royal. Here he met his worthy friend the eon-ducteur strolling round the basin, but dressed in fashion able attire, instead of his jacket and cap. On being COMMERCIAL INTERCOURSE WITH CENTRAL AFRICA. !, W f C i ? Py - fr ° m - the columns of Le Constitutionnel' the following interesting article on the subject of the internal commerce of Africa -The fact is now p aced beyond a doubt that a very considerable commercial movement formerly existed between the Barbary regencies, Morocco, and the interior of the African continent. The want of security may, perhaps, nave retarded it for some years, but the tendency, the necessities, and the habits of tile people still remain, and it will be possible, by well-organized efforts, to restore to this commerce all its importance. The routes by which the goods and merchandise disembarked at Bona, Algiers, or Oran, are conveyed, are at present perfectly well known. Upon these routes are observed towns which serve as magazines or storehouses for the caravans, or as entrepots for the commodities such seem to advance abreast towards the I esert. Thus Constantine, Medeah, Mascara, and Tlemcen form, on departing from the sea shore, the first line of markets for the produce of Europe. Tibessa, Biscara, Bouijoada, Laghouat, and Stitten, con stitute the second line and on the third, we find the Oued-Souf, Tuggurt, Ouerguela, and Mettili. Farther Sur! . Sha11 haTC resident here at on, but still presenting themselves in a parallel line, are El-Sedames, El-Colea, and El-Arib. The merchandise which, from these three last points, is sent forward to wards the south, meets on its route with a most impor tant market, that divides the crossing of the Desert, and forms the great oasis of Touat. From this station the caravans, which are there assembled by concentration, take different routes, in order to proceed to the various parts of the Soudan, Our readers are aware that all commerce in that country is carried on by means of caravans. Exposed to the attacks and the robberies of the inhabitants of the Desert, the merchants are com pelled to purchase the protection of the chiefs of these pirates of the Sahara. Amongst these tribes, the greatest and most numerous is, without doubt, that of the Touareg. They are excellent horsemen, and from time immemorial they have enjoyed the privilege of providing the escorts for the protection of the passage of the caravans. The Touaregs are a Barbary race they profess the Mussul man religion according to the Malekite rites it is said that they have a pale complexion, and that they wear pantaloons which strongly resemble in their closely-fitting form the pantaloons of the Europeans. Their women have blue eyes, and some of them are surprisingly pale. They the women smoke a great deal, and are considered very passionate they cultivate poetry with marked taste. It is related by Arabs who have made several journeys with the Touaregs, that these nomads are in the habit, when they cross the Desert, of placing inscriptions upon all the stones with which they meet. These inscriptions, which are most frequently in verse, set forth the lofty deeds of the writer, or, otherwise, challenges to an enemy, or the praises of a favourite flame. It is not uncommon to ffind verses addressed to an unknown beauty, in whicn the poet hopes to soften the heart of the first beautiful girl who shall chance to read them. The woman who desires to reciprocate the love of the poet writes under the first in scription a reply, wherein she betrays her name, and makes herself known. This amorous correspondence is very frequent. But what is still more curious, and worthy of riveting the attention of all our archaeologists and philologists, is the fact that these inscriptions are written in characters which do not resemble in the slightest dogree the Arabic characters, and which the natives look uponasthe written alphabet of the Targuia, or Barbary, tongue. The most credible conjectures give reason to believe that these characters are borrowed from the Phoenician writings. At Ouerguela there are Arte sian wells hollowed out of the stone, and the piercing of which is ascribed by the tradition of the country to Alexander the Great. From Tuggart to Timbuctoo, the caravans are thirty-seven da 's on the road, including twenty-nine encampments but eight days are devoted to repose at different parts of this long march. It will be easy to render still more complete the information that has been already collected respecting the Sahara t and the manners of its inhabitants, by sending native ex plorers, already initiated in European civilization, who will be able to penetrate without danger into the very centre of Africa. NATIVE AMERICANISM. The National Convention of Native Americans, held at Philadelphia in the early part of July, adopted an ad dress to their fellow citizens of the United States, with a declaration of principles which .are essentially embodied in the following resolutions -RESOLUTION'S ADOPTED JULY 5 AND 7, 1845. Believing our free institutions, if worth anything, to be worth preserving, and transmitting unimpaired. Believing the permanency of those institutions to de pend upon the honest and intelligent exercise of the right of suffrage. Believing that ruin, if it come, will come through a perversion and abuse of that right. Believing such perversion and abuse to have already prevailed, and to be now increasing to an alarming ex tent. Believing that the greatest source of evil in this respect is to be found in the rapid influx of ignorant foreigners, and the facility with which they are converted into citizens. Believing that Americans in form should, and of right ought to be, Americans at heart. Believing that under any circumstances it is dangerous 4. Resolved, That the Bible, as the only basis of rh.i. tiaiuty, lies at the bottom of all truelibei ty a nde,,u a utv and thus, as the corner-stone of our fie should be freely read by all men. 5. Resolved, That removals from important offices under the general government should be made like ap pointments, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, or other approving body, except in the absence of the Senate, when the President may have the power to suspend for cause. 6. Resolved, That these principles, lying as they do at the very foundation of our political freedom, and our na tional existence, involve, and are paramount to all others, however important to our external prosperity. _ 7. Resolved, That the interest, the honour of the na tion, as well as the real welfare of all parties, require that subordinate party questions should be made to yield to the great principles for which we are contending. 8. Resolved, That organizations of Native American associations should be established in all the townships and wards of cities throughout the United States. 9. Resolved, That the appointment of two delegates from each congressional district, be recommended to meet in general convention, on the second Tuesday of May, 1847, to nominate candidates for President and Vice-Pre sident of the United States, and that the place of meeting be Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. 10. Resolved, That we advocate the principle that no alien should be naturalized, except on the production of a Custom-house certificate, to be procured ou liis landing on these American shores, proving his residence of twenty-one years such certificate to be given up to be cancelled. 11. Resolved, That we hold it to be the duty of all true native Americans to give their suffrages to those only who subscribe heartily to our principles, and will maintain them. 12. Resolved, That as native Americans we hold it to be our duty to take high moral grounds on all subjects, to grapple with the principles of right, of truth, and of justice, without regard to mere questions of availability, and to contend for them fearlessly against the world. 13. Resolved, That the several executive committees of the States be requested to appoint, each two proper per sons, to constitute a corresponding national committee. 14. Resolved, That while every constitutional effort should be made to guard against the deleterious conse quences of a rapidly-increasing immigration, by the enactment of the most efficient laws for the accomplish ment of that all-important object, still a generous mag nanimity requires that those aliens who are, or may be come, inhabitants of the United States, should be kindly received, and every privilege extended to them, except that of participating in any of our political administra tions, and exercising the right of suffrage, until after a residence of at least twenty-one years. 15. Resolved, That as native Americans, we will foster and defend all the great interests of our country, its agriculture, its commerce, its mechanics, manufactures, navigation, mining, and science, fine arts, and literature, against the world. 16. Resolved, That we do advocate the passage of laws imposing upon all foreigners coming hither for purposes of permanent residence a capitation tax sufficiently large to prevent the excessive influx of vicious and pauper immigrants, and that we do this as a matter of self-defence. 17. Resolved, That we urge the promotion and foster ing of all means of moral and intellectual culture, by per manent provisions for general education, believing the in telligence of the people to be necessary to the right use and the permanence of our liberties, civil and religious. 18. Resolved, that the native American party do, and will continue to advocate the principle that the naturali zation of foreigners be confined exclusively to the courts of the United States, and also that a public registration of all applicants for the elective franchise be made. 19. Resolved, That we advocate the universal toleration of every religious faith and sect, and the total separation of all sectarianism and politics. 20. Resolved, That we recommend that no alien be permitted to land in these United States without a certi ficate of good moral character, and who is able to provide for his own support, which certificate shall be signed by the United States Consul of the port whence he sailed, and also that a registry be made of said alien, in con formity with the Act of Congress, passed in 1802, under President Jefferson. accosted by M. S-, and asked what had become of his ■ to commit the ballet box, the ark of our freedom's cove-basket of game, the audacious fellow coolly replied that it had been seized. 4 Oh, oh ! ' replied M. S-, ' well, then, as my basket has been seized, I will seize a thief ' and, suiting the action to the word, he, though more than nant, to foreign hands, or submit our destinies to the pos sible control of them, who may be foreigners in heart, and Americans in form only. Believing that from any of the old political organ iza-■sixty years old, took the rogue by the collar, and dragged ions - we cannot ho P e for an y radical roform of him over to the guardhouse of the Chateau d'Eau, in 1 ™? V1s - we deprecate. front of the palace. Discovery of Black Lead, Davis's Straits.-Accounts have been received at Lloyd's of the discovery oi black lead mines at Davis's Straits. The Eagle, Strai-ton, at Leith Roads, from that place, has about 100 tons on board, and would have had a full cargo, but ran short of powder for blasting. She left the Magnet, of Peter head, loading, with from thirty to forty tons on board. The Comet and Venus, of Leith, had just commenced. Therefore, 1. Resolved, That we do hereby form our selves into a national political party, for the radical re form of abuses, and the preservation of our institutions LAW. The Game Laws.-At the Deddington Oxon petty sessions on the 6th inst., before Mr F. S. Cox, John Car penter, of Sandford, labourer, was charged by Richard Morris, a gamekeeper, for Mr Bolton, with having, on the 29th of August, at Sandford, used a snare for the purpose of taking game without having a certificate so to do, wi.ercby he had rendered himself liable to a penalty of 20 . Car penter did not appear. Gardner, a police oflicpr, said, he on the previous morning served a duplicate of the summons on the wife, who then told him that she did not know where her husband was, and that she had not seen him since the morning that the keeper sought him. The clerk seemed to doubt whether the summons had been served long enough to justify the case being gone on with in Carpenter's absence. Mr Cox considered that time enough had elapsed, and said that Carpenter had left on purpose, because he should not be served, and to avoid these proceedings. The police officer said he understood that he h id left a place of work, and had gone off in consequence of the keeper having taken him. John Sanbrook, a looker-out for the above Mr Bolton, said, On the evening of the 28th of August, he found a snare, and watched it. At about half-past five the next morning, Carpenter came to it, took a hare from it, and was about removing the snare when wit ness look him into custody, took the hare from him, and searched him, but found nothing in his pockets, but he had a loaded gun with him, a powder flask, and a shot-belt. Took his gun from him, but gave him it again, because it was not on their manor, and he did not know whether • l.e and our liberties, under the name of the Native Americans' j could answer taking it away. It did not appear that Car-Party. j penter had been previously convicted. Mr Cox said ue 2. Resolved, That, as native Americans, we cannot con- i could have proceeded against him if he had liked, for b ing sent to give our political suffrages to any other than to ! in search of game on his manor that he shouldune au.i those born on our soil and matured among our institu- j the full penalty. As regarded money it madeino difference tions. to him, for he could not pay five farthings. H e s ' ,oU 3. Resolved, That no foreigner hereafter coming to ! vict him, and fine him the whole 20 ., and in detail o these United States shall be allowed to exercise the clcc- nient, six months' imprisonment Tn an, v In answer to questions 
582 the examiner. tatfo7,h d G t 7ina e i ween the Chasseurs ° f theBat -mi . n le journeymen shoemakers in . e soldiers had drawn their swords on the Sept. 13, that city. at°le'ntth r ?'V VOl nded severa ' P ersons - The police order ? A nillltar y s eeded in restoring trades W e7 .It P0 ?, haVlng g0ne abroad that ,he other trades were about to come to the assistance of the jour neymen shoemakers, the soldiers had been ordered to re main in their quarters, to be in readiness in case of need. A He LATE Disturbance at Leipsig By accounts from Leipsig of the 1st inst. we learn that the town en joyed tranquillity in appearance, but there was consider able agitation in the public mind. Some apprehensions existed that disturbances might break out on the 4th of September, the anniversary of the festival of the consti tution. The commission of inquiry was pursuing its re searches, but it is not yet known who gave orders to the troops to fire on the people. The report of the Commis sion is looked for with some impatience. The circular of the Minister of the Interior, on popular assemblies, has excited much discontent. It was at Stolzenfels that the King of Prussia agreed with the German Princes, on the representations of Prince Metternich, that energetic mea sures ought to be taken against innovators and political assemblies, as tolerating them longer might be attended with dangerous consequences. The anniversary fete of the constitution was celebrated on the 4th inst. with great rejoicing. Large bodies of men and women passed through the streets as early as five in the morning, sing ing patriotic songs. Later in the day there were public services in the churches, after which the Communal Guards assembled on the Rossplatz, and went through a series of evolutions. They afterwards filed off in front of the Hotel de Ville, on the balcony of which the autho rities showed themselves. Everything passed off with great calmness and propriety. Good News for the Bohemian Jews.-A letter from Vienna states that it is in contemplation to reduce the personal tax paid by the Jews in Bohemia. Disgraceful Proceeding at Cologne. - The German Journal of Frankfort ' publishes a letter from Co logne, of the 3rd inst., stating that some turbulent persons had got up a meeting there on the 2nd, for the purpose of passing a resolution not to accept the present of 3,500 thalers about 560 . , made by Queen Victoria towards the works of the cathedral, and requesting her to give it to the poor Irish or the Anglican church. A commissary of police, accompanied by some gendarmes, however, en tered the place of meeting, and ordered the persons pre sent to disperse before any resolution was come to on the subject under discussion. The injunction was obeyed. Strange Disturbance at Heidelberg. - The Manheim Gazette states that, in the afternoon of Au gust 29, the public tranquillity was disturbed in a strange way at Heidelberg. Some individuals suddenly collected on the Ludwigs Platz, and, placing themselves near the Museum, fired several shots. They then withdrew as quickly as they had come, and when the police arrived every one had disappeared. The Religious Reform in Prussia.-By a Minis terial order Czerski is prohibited from preaching any more in the city of Posen. The President of the Police proceeded to meet him, and prevent his arrival at Posen, whither he was called by a very pressing invitation of the Catholic Christians. Attempt to assassinate the King of Wurtem-burg.-A letter from Friburg of the 5th, in the ' Frank furter Journal,' states that two shots were fired at Meran, in the Tyrol, at the King of Wurtemburg, but fortunately without hitting him. Tip ' Carlsruhe Gazette' makes mention of a report of the same kind. The Jesuits are considered, it says, as the authors of this attack, in con sequence of the King having spoken, when in Switzer land, openly against the influence of that society. His language to Siegwart Muller, the head of the Jesuit party at Lucerne, produced a great sensation. The New Catholic Church of Germany. -De putations of the leaders of Central and South Germany, together with the clergymen, assembled on the 1st of September at Oppenheim for deliberation. According to report the resolution was unanimously adopted, to attend the synod at Stuttgard, which is fixed for the 15th instant, by deputations. Ronge is to be there, and on his return will visit Frankfort, and perform divine service with the Catholic dissenters. Frankfort is to receive in a short time visits from several of the clergymen who have con formed to the new sect. SPAIN. Marriage of the Queen of Spain.-The ' Memo rial Bordelais' has the following The Queen will re turn to Madrid on the 14th of September, and the Cortes are to be convoked for the 10th of October. It seems certain that Queen Isabella will marry Prince Leopold Francis Julius of Saxe Coburg, born 31st January, 1824, younger brother of King Ferdinand of Portugal and cousin to the husband of the Queen of England. France, it appears, will consent to this marriage provided the sister of the Queen marries the Duke de Montpensier, and all Europe is agreeable to an arrangement so long desired by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. It is said that the King of the Belgians has worked hard to secure this re sult. Our Ambassador at London, the Duke de Soto-mayor Spanish Ambassador , appears to have contributed his part to the same end. He has defeated the combina tions of the partisans of the Comte de Trapani and the Comte de Montemolin Prince of Asturias , who presented themselves at first with some chance of success. Death of Balmaseda.-One of the most distin guished Generals of Don Carlos, Balmaseda, died a few days ago at Chagny, in France, where he had fixed his residence for some time past. Attempted Insurrection in Madrid.-The ' Jour nal des Debats' published on Wednesday the following telegraphic despatch, dated Madrid, midnight, on the 5th instant -An attempt at insurrection was made this evening at ten o'clock, but was promptly repressed by the troops. Only one officer was killed. PORTUGAL. The Ministerial Successes.-We have Lisbon dates to the 1st inst. The manager of the late elections, Senor Jose Cabral, wag banqueted in Oporto, in honour of the success of his measures, and made an exposition of his political sentiments. The Queen has been advised to confirm the late expression of the nation's will in favour of the Ministry, by going on a visit to her Minister, An tonio Cabral, to his castle at Thomar. The Count Tojal had gone to Oporto professedly to inspect the Customs and to make some fiscal arrangements the real object of this visit was said to be money arrangements with the capitalists of that city, those of Lisbon having made con ditions for a respite from loans for some months. The elections had drained the treasury. Another such victory, it is to be feared, would be fatal to the foreign creditors. RUSSIA. A Hint soon taken.-Letters from Taganrog, of Aug. 10, announce that Prince Woronzoff, after his expedi tion on Dargo, had resolved to adopt the new warfare a la Pelissier-that of burning the forests which serve as shel ter to the Circassians. Upwards of fifty waggons, laden with turpentine, resin, and other inflammable matters, had left Taganrog for Stavropol. The Russian Navy.-The 'Cologne Gazette' con tains an article declaring that Russia is busy summer and winter in her dockyards at St Petersburg, and that she has lately introduced Paixhan's mortars into her navy. She possesses in the Baltic at present, 1 ship of 120 guns, 3 of 110, 15 of 84, 12 of 74, 30 of 64 to 44, and 120 of less power, amongst which are steamers armed for war. In the Black Sea she has 2 ships of 120 guns, 2 of 110, 12 of 84, 8 of 74, 8 of 60, 10 of 44 and 100 smaller vessels in the Caspian and White Seas. Pardon for the Poles.-Letters from Warsaw of the 22nd ult. announce that the Emperor had issued a decree granting a general pardon, and restoring to their property, which had been confiscated, the following Polish emigrants -Prince Gabriel Mirski, Stanislas Chaynaki, S. Kasperski, A. Koyanowski, the Brothers Mikalowski, K. Nidecki, J.Protowski, P. Winekierski, Z. Wisniewski, L. II offmani, Z. Uzynski. WEST INDIES. Jamaica.-The last accounts from the West Indies state that the railway from Kingston to Port Royal was fully expected to be opened on the 1st of October. Not one of the English labourers had died, which was attri buted to their abstaining entirely from drinking rum. The weather at Jamaica had been exceedingly dry and warm generally throughout the island, and the heat at Kingston very severe. The accounts from the agricul tural districts continue satisfactory with regard to the soil, but great complaints are made of the total cessation of labour, in consequence of the labouring population de voting part of an expected three weeks of indolence to the anniversary of freedom-a serious affair to those parishes in which the present year's crop had been re tarded by the dampness of the earlier portion of the sugar crop. Notwithstanding these disadvantages the crop for the present year even considerably exceeds the average of late years. These holidays, which commenced on the lsUof August, had, as far as they had gone, proceeded without disturbance, and it was expected would be gene rally indulged in nearly the whole time, in no cases less than seven days. Affairs of Hayti.-Port-au-Prince papers to the 3rd of July speak of an engagement having taken place at Cachiman between the insurgents, numbering 1,500 men, and two detachments of Government troops, num bering in the whole only 600 men. The attack lasted four hours, and ended in the total rout of the insurgent body, leaving a considerable number of dead bodies on the field of battle. The Government troops, on their part, suffered a loss of 4 killed and 26 wounded. A de cree, under date of the 10th of July, pronounces perpe tual banishment from Hayti of the following individuals, stated to have taken part with Gen. Herard in his late attempt to invade the Republic, viz. -Rinchere, Leo Herard, Tullus Herard, Merveilleux Herard, Saint Cyr Bourjolly, Joseph Racolier, Favard, Vilmenay, and Roy. HOLLAND. Opening of the New Exchange at Amsterdam. -The ceremony of opening the New Exchange in this city was to take place with great solemnity on Wednesday last. The King and Princes were to be present. TURKEY. Disturbed State or the Empire.-The whole Pachalik of Bagdad is in alarm. Redschid Pacha, the governor of that province, a fanatic Turk, well known for having taken by storm the holy city of Kerbela, has ex pelled Achmed Pacha, the hereditary governor of Suli-manie, from his post, after a desperate action, he having caused a messenger to have his head cut off, whom Reds chid had sent to summon him to appear in person before the governor. Redschid, indeed, appointed a brother of Achmed in his room, but in vain. Arabia is likewise in a complete state of rebellion. The state of Albania and Bosnia is not much better. The orders of the Porte are scarcely attended to in these provinces, and the new sys tem of recruiting cannot be carried into effect there. The Sulina mouth of the Danube has been so choked up with sand, during the whole summer, that no mer chantman has been able to enter. who cannot get away are obliged to compete with the convicts, and thus earn a miserable subsistence in this devoted and degraded colony. Insolvencies are now be come so numerous that they pass unnoticed. Cargo after cargo arrives, and as the idea of credit has become absurd they are sold for immediate cash at a ruinous sacrifice to the London merchant. Money we have none to send you home, and must claim your further indulgence all our misery has been caused by Lord Stanley's absurd policy we were happy, prosperous, and flourishing, before he inundated us with an overwhelming flood of crime and nothing but a speedy alteration of the convict system can relieve us. All our hopes, therefore, rest on our petition to Parliament. BRAZIL. The Treaty with England.-Aceounts from Rio to the 7th of July have been received by way of France. They contradict the report that the previous packet had brought home a treaty between the Brazilian and Eng lish Governments.-' Liverpool Times.' VAN DIEMAN'S LAND. Wretched Condition of the Colony.-The fol lowing is an extract from a letter dated Hobart Town, April 30th, 1845 -Robbery, violence, and indolence, stalk through the land that portion of the free labourers who had the means to leave have already done so, those UNITED STATES. We have received a letter on the subject of Texas and Mexico, which, without desiring here to express an opi nion on the argument it contains, seems to us written in a spirit not undeserving of attention. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Sir,-I am surprised to observe that the unreasonable tone generally adopted by the journals in this country, in relation to the annexation of Texas, has called forth no re mark on the part of unprejudiced and discerning English men. Annexation is generally pronounced to be a great injury inflicted by the United States Government on Mexico, and just cause for a declaration of war by the latter indeed it is frequently stigmatised as robbery on the part of the United States, and an insult to the civilized world. Observe all these hard names are lavished upon the act of annexa tion, not upon the acknowledgment of the independence of Texas as a State, in the first instance, or the conclusion of treaties of commerce with her nor yet upon the emigra tion of armed Americans into Texas during her struggle for independence. Whatever wrong may have been committed then, and I think it was a great wrong, although one which the Government of the United States would have found it almost impossible to prevent, little was said about it on this side of the water. A few individuals raised their voices to denounce it, but Governments soon got reconciled to a wrong which they thought they could turn to their own profit treaties were made with these very American emi grants loans of money granted and the young Republic was fast rising into favour with European Governments, when it was suddenly discovered that these people had more sympathy with their first cousins in the States than with their tenth cousins in England, and were actually thinking of joining the Union. Negotiations and manceu-vres were now resorted to, to prevent this act of a people acknowledged by England to be free and, these nogotiations failing, the British press opens an attack, from one end of the kingdom to the other, upon the Americans and Texans, and for what ? Not for having broken any compact with England, or done her any wrong not for having made a very foolish arrangement as far as their own interest is concerned, about which much might justly be said but for having cheated and robbed Mexico. The Texans, with whom England was hand and glove, are suddenly discovered to be rebels, and the Americans invaders and robbers, for treating with them upon more favourable terms than Englrnd could do. I saw it gravely questioned the other day, even in your paper, whether England would give up her claim on Texas as -part of Mexico, for the debt due by Mexico to England V' and this after acknowledging the independance of Texas and loaning her money! , . Really this seems to be either very dull or very insincere. I am one of those Americans who consider the act of annexation as a very improper one on the part of the Go vernment of the United States, for various reasons, moral and political. I object to it because it may prolong the existence of slavery because it increases our territory, al ready too large and especially, because it has been brought about by means which I consider unconstitutional but what is all this to Mexico ? If she wished to quarrel with us, it should have been when our Government acknow ledged the national existence of Texas. The Texans, being once established as an independent nation, have certainly a right to negotiate, as well with America as with England and the Americans have a right to negotiate with them, without being branded as robbers for being able to conclude a treaty which England happens to be averse to. I remain, Sir, your very obedient servant, An American. COURT AND ARISTOCRACY. Her Majesty.-The Court are not expected to arrive at the Castle until the end of the month. Friday, the 26th instant, is at present named for the departure of her Majesty from Osborne house. The 'John o'Groat Jour nal ' says- We believe it is now generally understood that it is the intention of our Most Gracious Sovereign to pay a visit to Dunrobin Castle so soon as the extensive improvements now going on shall have been completed. The Royal Family.-The Queen Dowager will leave Bushy Park for Witley on Tuesday next. It is expected that her Majesty's illustrious relatives, the Duchess Ida of Saxe Weimar, with the Princesses Anne and Amelia, will accompany her Majesty. Earl Howe will be in at tendance on the Court. The Duchess of Kent left Gotha on the 8th inst., for Frankfort, where she will stay three days, and then proceed to Brussels. The Duke of Cam bridge, who is travelling under the title of the Earl of Culloden, arrived on Sunday night at Cologne. He pro ceeded next day to the Palace of Rumpenheim, on the road from Frankfort to Wurlzburg. Will of Mrs Lawrence.-The legacies bequeathed by this esteemed lady to private friends, and to religious and charitable institutions, are very numerous, and amount to 145,000 ., all clear of the duty, which is di rected to be paid by the residuary legatee Earl de Grey # Among the legacies are 5,000 . to the Ripon Diocesan Church Building Society 1,000 . to each of the following institutions -the Leeds Infirmary, York County Hos pital, Harrogate Hospital, Ripon Dispensary, and Middle sex Hospital and 20,000 . to each of the two executors, Bowdler, and the Vice-Chancellor, Sir L. Shadwell. V e have previously stated the disposition of the landed estates. Death of the Dean of Cloyne.-The Very Rev Thomas John Burgh, Dean of Cloyne, died at Oldtown
590 THE EXAMINER. Sept. 13, Gazette Averages. Week ended Sept. 6 ? Six Weeks Governs Duty Duties payable in, London till Sept.l7' 17s Wheat. 55s lOd 55s lOd Ad Barley. Oats. Rye. 31s 8d 22s 10d 33 s 3d I 30s Oil 22s 6d 34s 2d 41s 8s Od 1 fis Ad 8s 6d ! 6d '4s 6d 42s 2d 136s 9d 38s lid 5cM3. I SMITHFIELI MARKE31 10s Od to 5Z 10s Od Clover . . 41 4s Od to 6 6s Od Straw 1 10s Od to 21 Os Od FROM THE LONDON GAZETTES. Tuesday, September 9. PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED. J. Lloyd and R. K. Parker, Lower Homer ton, Hackney, builders j. Holbcck and J. Jennens, Princes street, Hanover square, gold laeemen-R. F. Hews and G Hews, Storrington, Sussex, tailors-T. M. I. Tilby and G. R. Clover, Liverpool, metal merchants -W. Walker, surgeon, and H. Walker, chemist, St John street, Clerkenwell-Mary Hodgson and Anne Jane Hodgson, Liverpool, boot and shoemakers-W. Haimes and T. Haimes, Melbourne, Derbyshire, lace-glove manufacturers-C. Faircloth and A. Arm strong, Lad lane, City, accountants-H. Kennedy and J. Kennedy, Taunton, drapers-J. Webster and T. Staley, Stockport, grocers-It. Johnstone, W. Flockton, and J. W. Brooke, owners of a patent for the manufacturing of lamps for the combustion of naphtha, c. -W. W. Hyde, J. H. Dutchman, and C. Johnson, Hull, auc tioneers-T .Smith, C. J. Coates, and B. Bell, Water lane, Great Tower street, City, ship and insurance brokers so far as regards C. J. Coates-D. Duckett and II. Palmer, Brighton, linendrapers -J. Henderson, sen., and J. Henderson, jun., Taunton, mercers-P. Pearce and W. Chater, Haverhill, Suffolk, grocers. 5 BANKRUPTS. S. Davies, Somerset wharf, Bankside, Southwark, coal merchant. Husband and Wyatt, Gray'sinn square. F. Ward, Rosomon street, Clerkenwell, oilman. Keighley, Basing-hall street. J. Savage, Old Compton street, Soho square, victualler. Spring-hall and Co., Raymond buildings, Gray's inn. G. Cox, Plymouth, victualler. Penkivile, West street, Finsbury. J. Ramsden, sen., Armley, Leeds, cloth manufacturer. Sudlow and Co., Chancery lane. DIVIDENDS. October 2, B. B. Owen and B. G. Owen, Pallmall, tailors-Oc tober 2, G. Nettleton, Brompton, Kent, tailor-October 2, T. K. Gorbell, Bedford place, Commercial road, bookseller-October 2, J. Stammer. Charles street, Grosvenor square, brush dealer-October 2, W. Hill and W. K Wackerbath, Leadenliall street, City, ship agents-October 2, R. Blunden, Alton, Hampshire, plumber -October 10, N. Phillips, Haverfordwest, banker-October 7, T. Rees, Liverpool, brewer-October 10, J. Scott, Birmingham, gun maker-October 2, C. H. Greenhow, North Shields, ship broker-October 2, T. Revely, jun., Newcastle-upon-Tyne, plumber-October 2, R. Currie, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, bookseller-October 2, J. Lambert, New Elvet, grocer-October 2, T. Wright, New castle-upon-Tyne, ship broker-October 2, J. Stainthorpe, Hex ham, Northumberland, common brewer. CERTIFICATES to be granted, unless cause be shown to the contrary on the day of meeting. October 2, H. Wood, Abchurch lane, general agent-October 2, V. Matthews, Lisson grove North, Marylebone, pianoforte maker -Octobers, T. Powell, Allerton By water, brickmaker-October 2, T. R. Creigli, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, cartwright-September 30, W. R. Carscaden, York, hosier-September 30, M. Allen, St Helen's, Lancashire, butcher-September 30, H. J. Witchell, Car narvon, bookseller-October 1, J. Spencer, jun., Liverpool, builder -October 1, G. Laurie, Fleetwood-upon-Wyre, Lancashire, chemist -October 2, J. Aldcroft, Longsight, Lancashire, victualler. CERTIFICATES to be granted by the Court of Review, unless cause be shown to the contrary on or before September 30. T. Clarkson, jun., Charles street, Middlesex Hospital, uphol sterers' warehouseman-J. Lewis, Birmingham, card manufacturer -W. M'Alpine, Liverpool, tailor-F. L. Cole, Fenchurch street, City, wine merchant-J. Commins, Weymouth, Dorsetshire, book seller-J. Furnival, Kettering, Northamptonshire, corn dealer. Friday, September 12. PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED. J. Metford, jun. and R. Jennings, Southampton, ironmongers-J. P. and J. Firmstone, Warneford court, Throgmorton street, iron merchants-It., G. P., and J. H. Dart, Terceira-J. G. Newman and R. de Lambert, Kendal, iron merchants-J. Hyndman and W M 4 William, Swansea, tea dealers-G. Laws and C. Burt, High street, Stoke Newington, painters-J. Ridgway and F. Favarger, Valparaiso, commission merchants-G. Jones and R. D. Hughes, Bangor Slate Wharf, Pimlico, slate merchants-W. M. Spiring and Co. Westbromwich, manufacturing chemists-C. T. Naylor and C. Clegg, Liverpool, merchants-C. Ellis and G. Stimson, Sheffield, whitesmiths-W. Laycock and II. Boothroyd, Lepton, Yorkshire, dyers-T. and J. F. Silby, Poole, ship owners-R. Pickup and J. Ormerod, Bury, Lancashire, cotton spinners-J. Rylands, jun. and W. Jones, Warrington, Lancashire, boiler makers-T. Wright and W. Green, Little Hulton, Lancashire, coal merchants. 5 BANKRUPTS. V. Soffe, Strand, printseller. Sanger, Essex court, Strand. N. G. Coombes, Craven street, Strand, coal merchant. Manning, Craven street, Strand. J. Sutcliffe, Halifax, Yorkshire, rectifier. Emmet and Allen, Bloomsbury square. J. Adamson, Stockport, grocer. Coppock, Cleveland row, St James's. R. J. Sharp, Liverpool, victualler. Vincent and Sherwood, Temple DIVIDENDS. October G, C. Thornton, Huddersfield, stationer-October 4, J. H. Bazley, Manchester, cotton manufacturer. CERTIFICATE to be granted, unless cause be shown to the contrary on the day of meeting. October 7, J. C. Dempsey, Bristol, picture dealer. CERTIFICATES to be granted by the Court of Review, unless cause be shown to the contrary on or before October 3. J. Banks, Liverpool, tallow chandler-J. Welch, Ring cross, Holloway, licensed victualler-W. Nell, Manchester, brewer. SCOTCH SEQUESTRATIONS. J. Balsillie, Irvine, cabinet maker-G. N. Baxter, Dundee, ship owner. theatre royal, HAYMARKET. The False Mr Pope every Night O N MONDAY will be revived the Popular Comedy, by Mrs Gore, in Two Acts, of KING O'NEIL or, the First Brigade. Captain O'Neil first time , Mr Hudson Louis XV, Mr Howe General Dillion, Mr Stuart Arundel, Mr H. Holl. After which fourth time , the highly successful Comic Drama called THE FALSE MR POPE. Principal Characters by Mr Buckstone, Mr Hudson, Mr Howe, Mr Tilbury, Mr Gough. Mr Clarke Miss J. Ben nett. Miss P. Horton, Mrs E. Yarnold, Miss Carre, and Mrs Caulfield. With MRS CAUDLE'S CURTAIN LECTURES. And THE KING AND I On Tuesday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POl'E. USED UP. And HOW TO PAY THE RENT. . , On Wednesday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. And On'Thursday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. And THE L On T FrW y E a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. HIS LAST LEGS. And MRS CAUOLE. On Saturday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. And a NEW FARCE, by J. R. Planche, E q. THEATRE ROYAL, LYCEUM. Under the Management of Mrs Keeley. First Night of the Reproduction of Open Sesame, or a Night with the Forty Thieves.-Splendid success of Peter Jenkins. O N Monday the performances will commence with fourth time the New Farce, called PETER JENKINS. Characters by Messrs Meadows, Wigan, Turner, and Keeley Miss Dawson and Mrs Keeley. After which, THE GOVERNORS WIFE. Principal Characters by Messrs Diddear, Keeley, F. Mathews, r. Vining, and Collier Mrs Keeley, and Mi3s Dawson. To conclude with first time this season', OPEN SESAME or, a Night with the rorty 'rhin.in. rharoptAM hw Mmrc Wiffin. V. MatheWS, 'I Umfif, IftmOlG, Thieves. Characters by Messrs Wigan, F. Mathews, . -- -and Keeley Miss Hodson her first appearance at this ineatiej, mrs Wonlli !ge, Miss Fairbrother, Miss Grove, Mrs Wigan, Miss lurner. Miss Hicks, Miss Howard, and Mrs Keeley. THEATRE ROYAL, ADELPHI. Under the direction of Madame Celeste. O N Monday and daring the week, the New Drama of CLAR1SSE or, the Merchant's Daughter. Principal characters by Mr Webster. Mr O. Smith, Mr Wright Mr Paul Bedford, Mr Perkins, Mr Munyard, Mr Worrall, and Mr Gullingfo d, Celeste, and Mis? Chaplin. After which, I HE BOV KING. XV, Madame Celeste. With MRS CAUDLE ABROAD AND AT HOME. Mr Caudle, Mr Wilkinson Mrs Caudle, Mr Wright. F OR CLEANING GOLD and SILVER PLATE JEWELLERY, Ac. c. without wearing the Precious MetaU the slightest degree-This valuable chemical discovery is now trenail used in the Establishments of most of the Nobilitvin London. theC r ttd HOUSES, and in the principal WEST-END HOTELS. Testimonial of its valuable properties have been received from the eminent Andrew Ure. Esq., M-D. F.R.S. Ac., and from many eminent silver' ■miths. Sold by Rippon and Burton, Oxford street, and at the Man,, factory, 201 Strand, in half-pint, pint, and quart bottles, at Is.6d. 2s and 4s. and may be had through all Chemists, Silversmiths, and iron mongers in the Kingdom. Wholesale Agents-Barclay and Cn ton and Co. and Edwards and Co. London. auT A MAGNIFICENT, EXTENSIVE, t and UNIQUE COLLECTION of TROPICAL FRUITS, modelled by Mon-. Grimaud during bis long France, is just deposited at the ROYAL lOLYIELHNIL INS III U-TION. The ATMOSPHERIC RAILWAY is lectured upon by Pro fessor Bachhoffner. and exhibited Daily and in theEvenings. ANEW AMERICAN INVENTION, COLEMANS PATEN 1 LOCOMO TIVE ENGINE, for ascending and descending n'clined planes on Railways without the aid of stationary power. SWIMMING ana DIVING ILLUSTRATED by the son of Capt. Stevens, the celebrated teacher of swimming, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, at Two o'clock, and on the Evenings of Tuesdays and lhursdays, at Halt-past Eight o'clock. The other Exhibitions, c. as usual-Admission, One Shilling. Schools, Half-price. pHINESE COLLECTION, HYDE PARK CORNER. Open dailv from Ten till Six, and from Seven till Ten. -This unique Collection has been honoured by the visits of Her Majesty and Prince Albert, the Queen Dowager, tne Due de Montpensier, the whole of the Nobility, the Foreign Ambassadors, the Illustrious Strangers visiting the British Court, and also by the flattering approval of all classes in England and the United States. This collection, the result of great expense, and a residence of twelve years by the proprietor in China, is amongst ths most curious ever opened in London. It is a complete illustration of the manners, customs, and in many respects, of the history and religion of an immense empire, but imperfectly known to Europeans. There is anTiTimense collection of all sorts of things connected with the manu.actures, the modes of living, the . ostumes and domestic economy, and tfi? state of the arts in China there is something to please all inquirers. -'Times. We assert it to be the .most attractive exhibition of its class which has yet appeared in London.'-Morning Post. A visit to this museum will amply reward the most sanguine expec tation. It is an exhibition quite unique. -Morning Chronicle. A magnificent collection of objects from China, the most ample and curious that has ever been seen in this or any other European country it is more worthy of being seen than anything of the kind that has ever been presented to our notice.''-Morning Herald. __ An exhibition of extraordinary beauty and interest, admirably ar-ianged, and presents a gorgeous coup d'ceil.''-Spectator. A Full Military Band every Evening. Great room brilliantly illumi nated. Admission, One Shilling. c MARRIED. On the 10th inst., at Christchurch, Marylebone, John Eastabrooke Holdsworth, Esq., barrister-at-law, of the Hon. Society of the Inner Temple, to Emma Hill, eldest daughter of Thomas Harrison, Esq., Commissioner of Excise, Alpha place, Regent's park. DEATHS. On the 2nd inst., at Cheltenham, in hi 84th year, Pryse Lock-liait Gordon, Esq. On the 4th ult., at Staten Island, New York, deeply lamented, Mary, the beloved wife of Mr J. P. Kellett, late of Dean street, Soho, London. On the 23rd ult., in the parish of Kiltearn, lloss-shire, an aged Highlander, named Donald Ross, who had attained the vast age of 115 years. Among the memorabilia of Donald's life was his being sent as r special messenger with a letter from Lochbroom to Ding-' Avail at the time of the rebellion in 1745. The old man retained P ossession of all his faculties, and enjoyed uninterrupted good ealth till within a few days of his death, O M E AND SEE. The wonderful Dress Mart of Moses and Son, Whose vast speculations can ne'er be out-done, Whose mighty extent is the wonder of all, The rich and the poor, and the great and the small, Come a see. The beautiful dresses at this famous Mart, Those dresses whose style is remarkably smart. Whose cloth and whose workmanship challenge a test. Those dresses which all have pronounc'd as the best, come and see. What choice adaption and taste are reveal'd In Moses and Son's famous Coats for the field You'll find that these garments are suited for sport. While for ev'ry-day use they are suitably wrought. Come and see. The juvenile dresses which Moses can sell, The neat braided Tunics, and others as well When you look at these garments you'd freely admit That they're equally faultless in make and in fit. Come and see. Whatever is sold by E. Moses and Son, And pass your opinion, as thousands have done Whatever you are, or wherever you be. We challenge inspection, and say. Come and see. The New Work, entitled. THE MONARCH MART, with full directions for Self-Measurement, may now be had on application, or for warded post-free. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT! The Public are specially informed that during the re-erection of E. Moses and Son's Premises in Aldgatc, the entrance to their Establish ment is only at 151 Minories. CELLING OFF CARPETS.-LUCK, KENT O and CUMMING beg to inform the Nobility and Gentry as well their Friends and the Public, that they have removed their huslne their long-established Warehouse, No. 4 REGENT STREET, loo place, opposite Howell and James's, and to 98 Hatton garden Hoi born, where they trust that patronage will be continued which thev have enjoyed for upwards of a century. A considerable portion of their large stock of Brussels, Kidderminster, and other carpeting to be sold ar a great reduction. In addition to carpeting, they have at their West-end establishment a large stock of chintzes, damasks, tabourets, Sec. c well worthy of attention. The extensive Warehouse of Carpenters' Hall, with a capital Dwelling-house, to be let, with immediate possession. For par ticulars apply to Mr Jones, House Agent, 139 A Cheapside. v F RANKS' SPECIFIC SOLUTION of CO PA IB A~ The efficacy of this invaluable Medicine is attested by Testimonial From JOSEPH HENRY GREEN, Esq. F.R.S. one of the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons Surgeon to St Thomas s Hospital, and Professor of Surgery in King's College, London. I have made trial of Mr Franks'Solution of Copaiba, at St Thomas's Hospital, in a variety of cases, and the results warrant my stating that it is an efficacious remedy, and one which does not produce the usual un pleasant effects of Copaiba. ,,, J si e d ''JOSEPH HENRY GREEN. 45 ncoln's-inn fields, April 15.1835. ' Prepa. only by George Franks, Surgeon, 90 Blackfriars road, Lon-don, whe. it may be had in booties at 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., and 11s. each and of all respectable Druggists and Patent Medicine Venders in the United Kingdom. Caution-Unless George Franks, Blackfriars road, is en graved on the Government Stamp, it cannot be genuine. Mr Franks may be consulted daily until Two o'clock. LOSS OF TEETH SUPPLIED WITHOUT SPRINGS, CLASP . OR WIRES, LOOSE TEETH FASTENED, AND KILLING DECAYED TEETH WITH MINERAL MARMORATUM. MONS. LE DRAY and SON, SURGEON-i'-L DENTISTS, 42 BERNERS STREET, OXFORD STREET, continue to restore decayed Teeth with their celebrated Mineral Mar moratum, so universally recommended by the Faculty of England, France, and throughout the Continent, which substance they are the sole inventors and possessors of. The operation is performed without the least pain it is placed into the cavity in an almost liquid state, and in a few seconds hardens into enamel, preventing and curing the Tooth-ache, arresting all further progress of decay, allaying in one minute the most excruciating pain, and rendering the operation of extraction unnecessary. They also fasten loose 'leech, particularly of aged persons, whether arising from neglect, the use of calomel, disease of the gums, or any other cause. LOSS OF TEETH. Mons. LE DRAY continues to SUPPLY THE LOSS OF TEETH, from one to a complete set, without springs or wires, upon his new system of SELF-ADHESION, which has procured him such universal approbation, and is recommended by numerous physicians and surgeons as being the most ingenious system of supplying artificial teeth hitherto invented. They adapt themselves over the most tender gums or remain ing stumps without causing the least pain, rendering the operation of extracting quite unnecessary. They are so fixed as to fasten any loose teeth where the gums have shrunk, from the use of calomel or other causes. He also begs to invite those not liking to undergo any painful operation, as practised by most members of the profession, to inspect his painless yet effective system and in order that his improvements may be within the reach of the most economical, he will continue the same mo derate charges. There is no disease, to which the mouth i3 liable, more destructive than Scurvy in the Gums, the loss of teeth is more to be attributed to it than any other cause, for it is the primary source of decay in them. On its first appearance the Gums bleed on the most trifling occasion, become spongy and lose that firm texture they have in a healthy state, causing the breath to be offensive and repulsive to every one under its influence, besides other evils repugnant to a sensitive and refined mind. It muse be a source of extreme gratification to those thus afflicted to be assured that Mons. LE DRAY can effectually remove this destructive complaint by a single application, and without the least pain. Artificial Teeth out of repair, re-modelled to fit the mouth, and re stored, equal in beauty and durability to their original state. At home every day from Ten till Six. Mons. Le Dray and Son's Treatise on the Diseases of the Teeth and Gums' may be had,gratis, on application at tlieir residence, 42 Berners street, Oxford street. READY MADE. Tweed Tagl'onis, from -Ditto, superior quality, with silk Collar, Cuffs, and Facings -Codringtons and Chester fields, in light and gen tlemanly materials Cashmere te Coats, eveiy style and make, including the Register a Peltoe -Holland Jean Grand Drill and Diagonal Blouses -Splendid Summer Vests, from -Cashmere and Persian do. in endless variety -Black 0 10 6 Tweed ditto, in choice pat 0 4 6 terns -0 13 6 0 6 6 Single milled Albert and 0 9 0 plain Doe Trousers 0 19 0 Best quality. Black or 0 5 0 Dress -1 6 0 1 0 0 Dress Coats -1 12 0 1 3 0 Ditto, best manufactured 2 15 0 Frock Coats -1 15 0 Ditto, best manufactured 3 3 0 Just published, the Fourteenth Edition, price 2s. 6d. free by post, 3s fid r rHE SILENT FRIEND a Medical Work on 1 PHYSICAL DECAY, NERVOUS DEBILITY, CONSTITU TIONAL WEAKNESS, c. With Observations on Marriage, c. By R. and L.Pkrry and Co. Surgeons, London.-Published by the Authors, and sold at their residence also by Strange, 21 Paternoster row Han-nay and Co. 63 Oxford street Noble, 109 Chancery lane Gordon, 146 Leaden hall street Purkess, Compton street, Soho, London. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. This work should be read by all who value health and wish to enjoy life, for the truisms therein contained defy all doubt. -Farmers'Journal. The CORDIAL BALM of SYRIACUM is a stimulant and renovator in all Spasmodic complaints. Nervous Debility, Indigestion, Asthma, and Consumption, are gradually and imperceptibly removed by its use, and the whole system restored to a healthy state of organization. Sold in bottles, price ils. and 33s. PERRYS PURIFYING SPECIFIC PILLS have long been used as the most certain remedy for Scorbutic Complaints of every description, Eruptions of the Skin, Pimples on the Face, and other disagreeable affec tions, the result of an impure state of the blood. These Pills are perfectly free from mercury, capaiva, and other deleterious drugs, and may be taken with safety without interference with or loss of time from business, and can be relied upon in every instance. Sold in boxes at 2s. 9d., 4s. fid. and lis. by all Medicine Venders. Messrs Perry and Co. may be consulted at their residence, 19 Berners street, Oxford street, daily, from eleven till two, and five till eight. On Sundays from ten till twelve. MOURNING to any extent at five minutes'notice. Important.-Any article purchased or ordered, if not approved of, exchangedor the money returned. Observe-E. MOSES and SON, Tailors, Wholesale and Retail Drapers, Outfitters, and General Warehousemen. Caution.-E. Moses and Son are obliged to guard the public against imposition, having learned that the untradesmanlike falsehood of being connected with them, or it is the same concern, has been resorted to in many instances, and for obvious reasons. They have no connexion with any other house, in or out of London, and those who desire genuine cheap clothing should to prevent disappointment, c. call at or send to 154 MINORIES or 86 ALDGATE, opposite the church. No business transacted at this Establishment from Friday at sun set until sunset on Saturday, when it is resumed until Twelve o'clock. Several Salesmen Wanted.-Apply, personally, on Tuesday and W ed-nesday next, between the hours of nine and eleven, Semal Young Men wuntedm As Ut nU. A JUuauiM wtuitKl, THE TWENTY-FIRST THOUSAND. Just published, price 3s. and sent free, on receiving a Post-office Order, for 3s. fid. MT ANHOOD the CAUSES of its PREMATURE IVJL DECLINE, with Plain Directions for its PERFECT RE STORATION followed by Observations on Marriage, and the Treat ment of Mental and Nervous Debility, Incapacity, Warm Climate, and Cure of the Class of Diseases resulting therefrom. Illustrated with Cases, c. By J. L. Curtis and Co. Consulting Surgeons, London. TWENTIETH EDITION. Published by the Authors and sold by Burgess, Medical Bookseller, 28 Coventry street, Haymarket Mann, 39 Cornhill Strange, 21 Pater noster row and Barth, Bridges street, Strand, London Mr Smith, Inde pendent Office, Cambridge Lovejoy, Librarian, Reading Guest, Steel -house lane, Birmingham Sowler, 4 St Ann's square, Manchester Philip, South Castle street, Liverpool J. Claney, Bookseller, No. fi Bedford row, Dublin Drummond, 5 Blair street, Edinburgh Paton and Love, 7 Nelson street, Glasgow Mr Cooke, Chronicle Office, Oxford and to be had of all Booksellers. CAUTION. In consequence of the numerous complaints made to the Authors by patients who have been induced to purchase spurious copies of this work, advertised by illiterate and designing parties, under titles approximating as closely as possible to the word MANHOOD, the following decla ration is added to this advertisement, with a view that the public may not b j imposed on in their selection. DECLARATION. I, William Whinrey Gearing, of Smart's buildings, Holborn, in the County of Middlesex, Printer, do solemnly declare that I have printed Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Copies of Messrs Curtis and Com pany's Midical Work, MANHOOD, exclusive of the Twentieth Edition now printing by me, and that the whole of these copies were duly deli vered to Mr William Wilton, Bookbinder, residing at No. 6 Bream's buildings, Chancery lane, from the month of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty, to February, one thousand eight hundred and forty-f ur and 1 make this sslemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true. WILLIAM WHINREY GEARING. Declared and subscribed at the Mansion WIITI . U ,,, .. House, London, this 6th day of April, L ILL I AM MAGNA Y, 1844, before me, f Lord Mayor of London. Messrs Curtis's work, called ' Manhood,' is one of the few books now coming before the public on such a subject which can lay claim to the character of being strictly professional, at the same time that it is full y intelligible to all who read it. The moral and medical precepts given in it render it invaluable. -Magnet. Messrs Curtis and Co. are to be consulted daily at their residences, 7 Frith street, Soho square, London. Country Patients are requested to be as minute as possible in the details Acwmjxuued by be usu
THE EXAMINER. • r regard to. the Armistice in question I have his EreelJrn-cv's cotmiiand to Acquaint yon, that although-be mast d -• blincthe conclusion of a formal Armistice-, yet .he engages his word of honour, that he will not recommchce hostile operations against the Swedish army, before the expira tion of 14 days after the Swedish army shall have taken up the position stipulated in the above Convention, in hopes taut no operations will bo commenced on your part within the said time.--I have the honour, S c. Jlrihesta, S-Wth Noe. Cotmt KaKeKski, Stockholm, Dec. C. - SPAIN'. 1 JW THE PATRIOTIC PAPERS. Akanjoez, Nov. 29,--Gen, Don Francisco Xavier tie Castanos under date of the 2f5th inst. from Cata-n iayiid, makes the following Reporta. , • ! On the 21st he. received intelligence t f ,the enemy having advancing by Coilm, with 12,000 infantry, and 4000 horse. He gave orders fqr the army to .fall hack the lame night to a position extending from Tarragona-to Tu dels, the last point to be occupied by the army of Arra-p n, and the fifth division of the centre, which was in Caparossa. Notwithstanding this movement, the army continued to retreat, in the darkness of the night, with considerable trouble and the division reached their re spective points by marching tfaqt night ahd the following day, for some detention arose from the removal of the ar-•illery from Cintruenico, and oq the SSd the four divisiotfs of the army w ere in the position which they had tot ot-tipy, v, it!ioat haying sustained any loss,.. On the 83d the ad vanced parties reported, that three qolumns of the enemy were marching in the direction of Tudela j the generate yvas beaten, and while troops f-dragoons were passing the bridge, the enemy occupied the points of attack, which began at eight o'clock in the morning at ten o'clock the whole line was engaged. Onr troops maintained their position with thp utmost valour, and the enemy was re pulsed on alt sides. He renewed the attack, and rendered himself master of An olive grove on the left, whence he de scended with a tremendous fire, but was so well received by our gallant troops that after a most obstinate conflict fee was compelled to retreat. While out troop, were pur suing the defeated eiiCmy on otir left, another division of tile enemy penetrated through Tudela on the right, and took our pursuing troops in the rear this decided the fate Of the day, and nothing war left for dur army hqt to re- 1 ' treat to Sorja. W hiie this tvas going forward in Tudela j the fourth division, commanded 'by Jeri, I.'cpcr.o, wliiyh was iu Cascante, two hours inarch from the held of batilV, which had received orders tb atlads the right flank ofthe enemy, found'38D0 French infantry and lOOO cavalry op, posed to them, in tht act of offering hattle Lapeiia stir-' thedialely engaged, defeated and pursued them Vo the heights of Tudela,whence he was attacked by the enemy's' troops, vho occupied'the heights. Ef.pena retreated'to the position of Cascante, where he defeated the cneMy,' and at the fall of night, began to- faH back to Borja, ac cording tc, the last order he received. Oti His retreat he was again attacked by the enemy, but our troops chpcketl his progress, and the four divisions reached Borja, Whence they marched to Catalayud. The forces of the cneuty in these actions of Tudela andCascante, Amounted to from 36 to 40,000, ami from 6 to 7000 cavalry. Their Ibis' has been verj considerable, as has been ours in missing dnd prisoners. In tt letter of the 27 th, Gen. CRstaiios sends advice, that put having in Gatahtynd the nteabs of suhsHterice, add having received notice, that the enemy threatened to at tack Samosierra, for these reason , and wishing to be near the capital in case the French should endeavour to advance to it, he had determined to go to Seguenza. the Major General, Don Jde ito St Juan posted in the Puerto 1 ps r of Samosierra , semis advice i a letter of the £8t?t of this a '3i3t! , that at break of day th t ioruin£ llic division of troops antler, his command Acfe alarmed, and Immediately oiuiei arms, expecting to he attacked in foraNby th'e'eue-my, as all the advices received during th£ nlgktconrtirrf J in stilting-, that on the morning on tb preeddiug day great numbers of tile enemy's troops bad defiled hy Araifda ds Ouero, directing their inarch to the aieanpuiEiilS of Ho-eiguillas and La Grange, with nliSny pieces of artillery and other ordinary stores. Accordingly, a little after si t in the morning, vvete heard in tire heights of Samosierra, various discharges i3f artillery and ssnall arms. coniimmHy increasing, nnd-.wwc in Hie direction of the pais of Sepul veda, which left no doubt that an attack would b£ madt awf though he could comkie iu the resistant of the brave garrison, whicp had been reinforced the day before thft 'i7th ',w ithjlOCO fusileers of the reg-ment nf Jaen, tbehura bers of the enemy amid rot but excite solicitude, aod front the moment ofthe attack, proper measures were taken to seed succours of itor.trvy artillery, and ammunition but with-out the assistance 5f these he effected the complete defence of this point not withstanding the attack lasted mdre than four hours the eijemy having attached with 4000 infantry, 1 Jl X cavalry, and four pieces cf cannon, besides the re-infdrdcments which were at hand to support their troops Brigadier t on Juan, Josef irden, Colonel of the re giment-of Cavalry of Mantua, whocvmmanded at the post of Sepulveda writes that he was attacked at v break of day, by the enemy, with from 1500 to 4000 Infant 4 1500 cavalry, and foW pieces of artillery and that he had repulsed titem with glory to the arms of the king and country. Be proposes soua to send the circumstantial de tails of the action, in which he says we have suffered •some loss, but he supposes that of the enemy must have been dotible, the firing having cdhtiaUed till icii o'clock. . , ,. TURTCEV C n3taktJ8o?le, Oct. 20.-According id ilis last -advices- from Persia, the Court still continued at Sof-tauia, where it was encamped iq tee's. The French Ambassador, Gen Gardaiiuc, is treated by the Em peror witli the highest distinction, and accompanies him in all his hunting. parties'. All the dibits of the Eiigiish io recover .heir influence over this Sovereign hash filled. ' '• .y, nh.'aiir .FR0JI THE AMERICAN PATERS. • 'WqvKtvaTON, Nov. 8.'-This day. the following .Message, with '.the several documents accompanying it, was presented,jb both Houses --• m'essaoE Td the srNkrb An novse or nr.rkr-, . v , -Tires op vpiTEo states. ft tv on it have lie'en 'i Source, fellow-cititiens, of mu h gfatiflcatioa jf bar la iMariinicdtions from Rurope had enabktd me to inform'you that the Belligerent Na tions, whose dlsrepiftl • of neatraf right has been so ie-jtructive to our commerce had become awakened to the ditty afld the pc'licy of revoking their tmftghteon edicts. That ho' incaiis might be omitted to pnithVe his saUttary etTe.ct,'.! lost nbtime in availing myself of the'Act author Ttisiog a juJpenjion in vvhelej or it! part, of the several Embargo' EaWs. Our Ministers at London and Farid were ihslrneteif to explain to the respective Govermnems there, oyr disposition to exercise ihe authority in Such manner a# would withdraw tile pretext on which the ait-giesbons were originally founded n n d oprn the way for a renewal of that commercial intercourse, which it Wa alleged oil all sides had been reluctantly obstructed. As each Of these Governments had pledged its readiness to concur in renouncing a measure, which reached its adver sary through tb?'kcotitettibld vigil's of neutrals ofily, A
m THE MO RUING CHRONICLE MONDAY, JANUARY 2. sPAjy, _madridTd c. at s STMJlft ,u#a joon l of Madrid, aided so sal-raries ot ParU, are attacking the the twfljbafdmeat of Barce-■KwfiiCtory ,to into hat the people of Spain f the matter. Iu.gi'lug some iusight into Of national Jesting up0 ft this subject, I may jasr t •-'on-d wki ° u ' m w man -• •t ' find a ready echo iu foreip ft jauruol chiefly de-T a MEETING ! ro n rrtAmg in 81ft instant h aid it a REPEAL oft i niMtlnir do now rt or to adJ to iu Qum _ J W tbe corn and provision law , and all otbar monopolies Tho follow ni are among tbe uohlrmen and MtkaMi wuo htTO already b mhc members of thofen al committee The Mof Eadnot. John Cyileti, Esq. of MEMBERS of PARL1A-end Gvntlefnte r s'.imt In London, held nt the HOtiMi roJfrenooM, on tb am lo.Unt, fn nid of the Jpynl! nauoael lf it non mnklnn to procott n RKPHAL of ths CORJf-LAVS, II n re tees, ThsvthU nuntlne do new rewire itwn lnio n p-' th metropo-A Rntia now waklna to procure a REPEAL of tfcsOO • molted, Thai tM meeting do new reeohi .. - commlitof with power to add to iu numbera lor-- I --Ilian baroujrhe, in order to promote free trade by Tn ataMlon of Lord Ktonalrd. Lord Bdw. Kune!'., M.P. t r- Admiral Hon. D.P.Bouver ! C ha Mm de ia • 'ryme, Kiq. Ta Arthim MiliUr 'te ectlug ' ST By, moveuuntu end appointments in lu ccneec uwlfia i ,M reported hi Barcalou . rtWptioT rewired there or the IrtTliTSS lh _,■ InValflncis. In htWgoaJrThk Mtd would retwm to Madrid b1 the Hotel d'Oriente by some persons to M. Lkssbi's. Van Hxlsm gave up tho Captain-Generalship to General SHoiirti On thd 23d ult., after 'returning ftbm conducting the RrgBNt to Viliafranca. Our Paris express, with the journals of Friday, have reached us. Yet one more example of the good faith of these journals. No story made a greater impression on the Hoarse and on the public mind, dispoeing it to acquit the Frenah Consol at Barcelona of all complicity with the revolt, than the announcement by telegraph that the English Consol had joined in giving M. Tussore a dinner. This lie, for it was no other, was contradicted by every Barcelona correspondence which reached Paris on Thursday. Yet uot one of the French journals tak e the trouble to contradict or correct the falsehood. M, CiRBV, ex-president of the revolutionary Junta of Barcelona, ha addressed a letter to tl Marseilles Semaphore, in which h denies having ever been a paymaster of a Corps Franc. As we sccnsed him, on the credit of a Barcelona letter, of having filled this office during the war, when four millions of reals were embezzled, wo give t length M. Cause's contradiction -I am accused of being possessed of 100,000 francs rentes, the produce of a double robbery. The first committed as paymaster of a corps the second' as President of the Junta, I neverwas the pay-master of a corps. As to the Junta, it never re-ceived more than about 280, XX francs from the funds of the Provincial Deputation a sum small in proportion to ths necessities of a great city, especially at such a moment, when excesses, pro-cceding from the destitution of the poor, were to be prevented. The Junta paid twenty-live sous a day to its National Guards, and to many officers of the army. Where, then, is the robbery ? We will give M. Carsv full credit for his denial of having ever been paymaster of a corps. With respect to the fuuds taken from the treasury in Barcelona the Spanish authorities will themselves reply. A close inquiry has been made into all facts' and they will come forth in the debates of the Cortes. M. Carsv gives another account of the rescue of the thirty prisoners. All the official defences of M. T.rssbps confess that these prisoners were taken from a French boat belonging to the Meleagre, and under the French flag. It was the duty of M. Lrsbsps to claim and see them liberated. The following is the way in which M. Carsy tells us they were liberated -Let the English press know, writes tha ex-president of the Junta, Cabsv, that these persons were taken out of our hands by a e,baritable snb-terfuge of the Consul. The reprmentativc of France presented'himself before the Junta, and asked would 1 oppose the going away of a JPrench family, to which he had given passports. It was the first visit I received from him. I did not hesitate to satisfy him and the family in question were about to embark, when I learned that they were the Ladies Van Halkn, with General Chacon. 1 would not go back from my word. The Consul, in his humanity, thuX deprived ue of pre-cions political hostages, the keeping of whom might have prevented the bombardment. This account is totally ditlerent from the official account given by M. Lessjsps himself to the French Government, aud published by it in an English Tory paper. M. I.RSSRrs says, tha on learning that a gr.mp.of women and children belonging to the families of the Captain General and General Zaiiala bad been carried off by the militiu at the moment they were about to embark on board the Meleagre. This account blinks the material point, admitted by the Debate, and avprred by Ge nerals Van Halbn and Pastob, that they were taken out of ft boat under tbe French flag, a boat belonging to the French vessel of war. M. Lassai's says, he flew to the President of tbe Junta, and energetically insisted tbst tho persons should be given up. M. Carsv's account is very different and either he or M. Lrsseps make a statement completely false. Indeed it is very remarkable bow none of these people tell the same story. General Pastor relates tho surrender of the Atarazanas in a way utterly contradictory of M. Lrsskps whilst M. Carsy tells the story of the embarkation of the ladies altogether different also from the narrative of the French Consul. Wherever we are to look to for truth, we certainly cannot expect it from that side, of which tbe very actors and partizans so egre-grioosly contradict each other. ration tb reertl detail which of. thi plan, hft. to hot ' any thing of thitvirt'-euch was tholrown ex rroesinn.- bJf'nMssftry to the working v.. - --- - . zxh T ?' M f !saw £3® Hff-jaresw't and fathers of families had Indie, by th- next packet a very lii SorrMAViTON, January 1.-The Oriental and Peninsal'u Company'ireteanl-ghlp, th Oriental, sailed Iron thi port at eight o'clock thto morning, with Ixty-flv first class pfts enpers aad will call at faimouth for the Malta In thednulma re. oat of the moon, and on the'' glad water of the dark blue uca. ' fe morrow- Woman' Lovo, Bla k WkUker aod Billy Taylor. t-if~ Th publication of The Morning Chronicle fintohsd on Saturday morning at Eight o'clock and Fu ll 'tpnil . The Montrose, one of tbe regular Penin-Ktdak packets, rrivad here thto nioraing-. She sailed from ratotdtar ou the 'Z#d of December, 'Vella irtd, Ldeboa eth, I Oporto 27th. and Vig# 28th. .V Lisbon she took in a lull nariro ot fruit, and at Vljo twelve oxen. The Moniro e brink's home twelve passengers. Sailed yesterday, tie team-pt.-ke Iberia, for Gibraltar. Lisbon, fie. The Hoyc i tv .st India Matt Packet Compaay's.'Jeam-ship, th Trident, arrived thto moraiuq' from London, and will sail from this rmrt to-morrow, calling at Talmooth,' to take the Wet ■ - bo 4qh. Tho Trident carrie out 400 bottles nnd thtrfy-soves passengers. The next Went India mail 8u4, is tit Thames, uml she is expected to arrive I EARLY EDITION.? THE MORE US 1 CHRONICLE. LON DON MOb DA V, JANUARY 2, 1843. on Saturday neit ■■ WinhbvR-Mrlancholv ano Fatal Aqti-nkHT -On Friday a very dreadftii accident occurred, al the jnalthpuse at Upton, beloiq,-ins to, M-oSrt. Jennings, the brewerlk of Windsor, bv which one onfortunate man w i' killed on the spot, and two others much Injured. The ma haute conFtot of three stories, thi two lower of which are the working floors, and the upper was used for storing q UM tity of which was placet! there. There Si at work In tbe house, and happening to per-'th beam ef the upper floor slightly giving .removed the malt from that parti to the of the flooring, which time became overe occi sioned the subseqnent accident. They lived some barley trickling down from tbe .floor to So lory, beneath- on which one,of them re turned to th room'to stop up the hole or crevice, whsa the whole of th flooring of that story fell into the room ' Kunesth. whleh wus also broken away, and the whole fell to ory, carrylug tbe tpen with them in the Assistance wa sptadi.y procured, and ths ! re dxtrfoated as soon as possible, when it wa , rftbens, named Robinson,wa killed on the en drerdfufly fractured qa the head. A ' ' the maltster, was found to have re-lojnries,Internally aud externally oflgfogs, where he now Ue _ .Kqvery. The third man wa vert but not diuurero'wly and the fourth with slight bruise.- ttWrer Em severely Dog. Of Nxwoabtii AND. Hi Own AftAIR # 5l diotea on the occMfon of the extensive tmjlof'ir# v month? cmrk, another porcicn ol our s V' moot part mfirtMiii • ff v month? to, to say itethlnz ol rfd aese-'Sed such enoriami iSae tuonution 'vuinetth JhrifoL WlkrO-v 4 i mwbbs ethers, who bad clai .iCfcaatoieing tItem'll8 totoWw not geic Wq a-'•'VBrjj Mfeapi Dfo imj Mlnistors evidently fee! tha difficulty in which they are placed by that clause of the Ashburton capitulation to which we called ft Mention on Thurs day , and their affectation of making Ifght of it only betray the more glaringly their sens# of uneasiness. Lord Abarbkxn may rely upon it that it will re quire something more tbau the confident assevera tions of bto newspapers to convince tha public that this treaty has not, instead of consolidating peace between England and America, thrown new and serious obstacles in the way of its being maintained Look, for example at this subject of the right of visit. The Government organ tells us that last year this question threatened to Embroil us with tbe United States. And no doabt it did. It is impossible to read tb correspondence that t#ok place lietween the representatives of the two Go vernments without being convinced that an early 1 clear, and deiinito adjustment of the question was essential to a good understanding between the two countries. It was one of the questions, the settle ment of which was looked for as amongst the happiest results of Lord Ashburton's mision. Next to ths boundary question, it was the one most likely to involve the two countries in a misunder standing. Now, in what state did Lord Ashburton find this question ? and in what state did he leave it 1 England claimed as she still claims , a right to ascertain by visit the real nationality of merchant i vessels mat with on the high seas. Tbe exercise of such a right tbr American Government said was hevrp iBcI de in maritime law, and towards vessels oi their nation should not be put in force. The exercise oi such p right, replied Lord Ab rdxnn ha been the invariable practice of tbe Britivb .navy. So it sltali continuo, and in conformity wifb it orders to put it in fores are issued from the Not one of the Freneh journals even alhids to the existence of the letter of General Pastor, which filled three columns of the Madrid papers, and which proved the full participation of the French Consul, M. Lasssrs, in the surrender of the Atarazanas. Though pass ing altogether in silence a document so interesting j the DSbats answers an accusation which it attributes to us. and which we did not make. It triumphantly states that the Spanish Consul at Bayonne has been removed for giving Colonel Pbim pa -port. We did not complain of the Freneh authorities oFBayonne. We complained of those Of Perpignan, who arrested Colonel Prim, as bearer of a false passport, but who instantly set him free, when he confessed, that as an enemy of the Spanish Regent and Govern -ment, he had been obliged to take a passport under a false name. We have related Colonel Prim's efforts to get to Barcelona, and his sucress in getting to Figueras too late for serious mischief, though not too late to cause a littla insurrection, and to force the chief inhabitants of that town to go now into exile. 'Since thkt time the French telegraph an nounced that TRrradas kept up hts band in tbe Lampourdau, and that Colonel Prim had gone to raise' the Campo di Tarragona. On tbe contrary, Trrradas has been driven ont of the Lampourdsn into France hnd Colonel Prim, instead of going to Tarragona, has also taken refuge with bis Freuch friends fn Perpignan. Our letters state, that the number of Spanish refugees on the frontier are great that they are not merely the refugees of the late insurrection, but old Carlist partizans, who hed been summoned, and who bad come from distant depots. This menacing state of things on the fron tier, which the French Home office and its police purposely keep up, obliges tbe Rbcibnt, at this moment, to keep 50, WO men in Catalonia, and to be bimself continually on the watch. . In Barcelona itself every means are tried to keep up the spirit of revolt. The Carlo-Jovellenist Club has influence enough to prevent the re-opening of the manufactories. The Constilutionnelot the -22d ult. exclaims, on learning the promotion ofLxssxps, to be officer of the Legion of Honour -What a scandal! We have proved be-yond the possibility of contradiction the con-nivance of M. Lksssps with the insurgents, Louie Philippi rewards thi connivance, and therefore approves of it. How disgraceful and ignominious must the reward be, that has been gained by ths provocation of disorders, and the • spilling of the blood of both soldiers and patriots! The Constitutionnel adds- That it knows posi-tfrely, that several Frenchmen fired on the Quren's troops, and. that it could name one who boasted of having killed an officer, The officers of th citadel of Montjaich have de dared, that before ami during the bombardment •heje were uo English t fifteen nor Congreve rockets in ithe fortress thus contradicting the stupid calumnies of the Affanerr dos. We have received printed letter from Bsrce We have copied from tbe Aylesbury News u Second Letter from Lord Nugent to the Rev. John Harrison, on the Condition of the Agri cultural Labourers. It is eminently. deserving of the attention of tbe landowners Of England. His lordship declined in his former JeMcr to specify misconduct towards the poor in particular parishes. but on the present occasion he has deemed it ad visable to give instances -8om ! wretoUed man, ha says, 11 I fell in with a few day ago. I questioned them. I beard their statement. I inquired Into its truth. It has been confirmed to me. They were from the parish of Waddesdeu. In a note it to etated This parish belongs to the Duke of MARMiORoboH, a nen-resident landlord. ! In that parish a great portion of the labouring poor are without employ, and therefore without means of sub sistence. Those who are employed tteording to the iniqui tous and ruinous system of Ktiges apportioned to the extent qf families, and receive for norh, sender the name of wages, eight shillings a meek to men with families, and to sjnolb men i our sHiALrNos the latter allowance being less than one-half of wkat I have shown to be neces sary tor proper subsistence, Here let ur pause. Wbat is the ns of the Somer set-house commissioners and assistant-commis sioners, bee., if the aliowauca systeiu exists ia ei great vigour as ever ? Eight shillings for a man with a family, and four shillings to single men ! The principle of the new Poor-law was tbe separa tion of independent labour from pauperism. No distinction wa to be any latiger recognised between labourers with families and single men. If the single man perforip? the same labour as a man with a family, bis wage ought to be the same. But in the agricultural districts we find part of the family oi the married man maintained by the single man.' The New Poor-law has broken down. 1 have lately, continue bto lordship, returned from p eeing a fortnight in Li ice# tern hire. T found the general rate of agricultural wages there to be 12 . a week in many instances 13 . iu some higher varying according to the quality of the labour. And these coals, a large and most necessary item in the expenses of liie, are sold at the rate of I2j. the ton at the labourer' door. Hare the labourer cannot buy them at a less rate than 20 . at tbe wharf, or in hi own village, at th retail dealer's, at a less rate than from 27s. to 30s. th ton. If wages follow the prices of necessaries, how hap pens it that in those counties of England where neces saries are dearest, wages are lowest ? Wc also insert a letter we have received from a reporter cf the Anti-Corn-law League, on the con dition of the labourers on tbe estate of Mr. Banbrs -that gentleman who, at the Blandford dinner, was so tremblingly alive to the welfare of thn labourers. The description of tbe misery of the poor creatures is quite heart-rending. What asto nishes us, is, that in distrioti where such wretched nese prevails among the labourers, landowners should dare to open their mouths on such a subject-When wage , says this reportor to th League. •• were higher last year by on or two shillings a week than this year, your kfoonrere in their miserpble hovel , which nave neither ' tight roofs' nor ' tiffin door ,' nor tig-fit anything, but tight rent n T pinching htrngtrto dtotingntoh them, in those hovel your labourers werewfwbut fire , save when cooking their scanty meal and title year, when coals are still a dear, von talk of the warm hearth of tho labourer, and lito cheerful society, a things to be preserved by keeping off th evil day.' . , . I have oeau your labouring people In full' employment without a change of clothes. 1 have seen tbe merest rem nant ol blanket rag to cover a family efaix childrelTwith their hard- orkiug father and mother. T have own hard working mi u on your property who declared to in they did not taste bn toner's meat for six months that potatoes and lard, tbe latter In small quantity, and greens, and u oa wiui wiwd, mother , our estate, who all told me that during the recent years of high-pried provisions they had not been able to buy, save clothe . Several of the article of dress for three years, so low their wages. This is really a frightful state of thmgs. But poor and trampled on as tho agriculture labourers of England arc, and low as the landowners deem gf them, to judge from the disgusting flum mery spoken at them, we conceive there is more danger in that quarter than the fords of the soil are aware of. Protection is as good an argument in the mouth of the tabourer as in that of the hmd-owner. The Tory landlords are bringing an old house about their ears. Wbat Lord Nugbnt says on this point Will be said by others If, say his lordship, the occupier of land claim, a a right, protection for the vain of hi.- produce-if the lainl-lord chum as a right protec.tion for the value oi his laud, the value of which must be measured by tbe value of hi produce, the labourer ha an equal right, he has a much higher right, to protection for the value of At produce, hi labour, becuusi he ha uo capital to stand out for price during ita fluctuation . He ia day by diiy ac pendent on market , which, under the present vicious system, destroy him, impoverish the former, and against which only the command of capital can enable any man whose fortunes depend on the value of agricultural produce to wait upon tbe fluctuations of what seasons may affect, but law has rendered ruinously precarious. If then he who rente land, or he who iets it, claim protective laws for his produce, bat at th# same tiuio claim that labour, which gives value to his property, shall remain unprotected, and dependent on his demand for it, this is to require, under tho name and sanction of law, tlie power of committing open and unmitigated robbery-a power to demand a protected aud arbitrary price, auhject only to his own wants for that labour by which those prov isions are produced. ' The advocates of protection leave ont tbe la bourer, but they are p .f'tt a frightful weapon into his hands. The Scripture says, accursed is he who deals with two measures. Lord Nugent says that even at the present price of provisions, feo single man in his neighbourhood can main tain himself in health and strength upon less than 8s. 3Jd. weekly and no married man, with an average family of three children and their mother, upon less than 14 . 611. a weak, ex clusive ef harvest wages. Tbe argument for protec tion embraces all these people and the conclusion will be drawn from the premises. They who take upon them the management of others, incur a fearful responsibility. Free trade is one thing, and protec tion is another but when protection extends to all, it is very different from protection to a privileged class. We warn the isndowners, that the advocates of pro tection are raising questions pregnant with fearful consequences. __________ Though we have'always protested against the in justice to the people of England ot the system by which the price of colonial produce is so much en hanced, we have, at the same time, contended that Government ought, in fairness to tbe owner of estates in our colonies, to give them every facility for obtaining the labour by which alone they can compete advantageously with the owners of slaves. IVe hear great complaints of Lord Stanley by those who are interested in the prosperity of the West Indies. The planters say that bo has not done bis duty to them-that he has not applied himrelf as he ought to the giving effect to the recommendations of Parliamentary committees, by taking the necessary steps for facilitating the immigration into our colo nies of labourers from Africa. The select committee ou West India colonies sub mitted to the House of Commons on the 25th ol July, certain resolutions containing suggestions, the result of evidence taken before it thase resolutions sho w that the act of emancipating the sieves has been productive of the greatest advantage to the negro population that their character and condition have been greatly improved that many of tbe former slaves have been enabled to purchase land, and to acquire wealth without labouring more than three or four days jb a week, and from five to seven fo urs in a day. The committee report that simultaneously with this amendment in the condition of the negroes there occurred a very great diminution in the staple productions of tho West Indies to such an extent as to have caused serious, and, in some cases, ruinous injury to tbe proprie tors of estates. The distress in Jamaica, British Guiana, and Trinidad has been so great, ns to have caused many estates, hitherto pros perous and productive, to lie cultivated for the last two or three years at a considerable loss, and others to be abandoned-that the causes of this diminished production and consequent loss, are the great diffi culty which has been experienced by the planters iu obtaining steady and continuous labour, and tht high rate of remuneration which they give for such broken and indifferent as work they are able to procure. The remedies proposed by the committee to check the increasing depreciation of West India property are set forth in the lltb, 12tb, and 13tb, re solutions which accompany its report. lltb. That one obvious and must desirable inode ol endeavouring to compensate for thto diminished supply ol labour, to to promote the immigration of a fresh labour ing population, to such an extent ae to create competition for employment. i'ith. That, for tbe better attainment of that object, ns well as to secure the full rights and comforts of tbe immi grants as freemen, it to desirable that such immigration should be conducted under the authority, inspection, and coutrol of responsible public officer . 13th. Thatittoaiso a serious question whether it to not required by a due regard to the just rights end interest of the West India proprietors, and tbe ultimate weiiare of the negroes themselves, more especially iti consideration of the large addition to the labouring population, which it is hoped may soon be effected by immigration, ihat the laws which regulate the relations lietween employers and la bourers in the diff erent colonies shouid undergo early and carefnl revision by their re spective legislatures. The select committee on the west coast of Africa, in its report dated the 5th of August, has the follow ing remarkable passages -We need hardly add more to prove that it would be well for the African In every point of view, to find himself a free labourer in he free British West India Colonies, enjoying, then, as he would, higher advantages of every kind, than have ialien to Iho lot of the negro race iu any ether portion of tbe globe. Again, tbe committee states-Your committee cannot but strongly urge upon Parlia ment not only not to prohibit the emigration ot tree blacks from our African settlemnnts to our West India colonies, but to encourage and promote it bytlie authority ol Govern ment, under the sanction and regulation above suggested, or such other as further consideration may supply. Here we find two committees of the House cl Commons, in the months of July and August, re commending immigration as a means of improving the African, and of preventing further depreciation of West India property. It will hardly be credited that, notwithstanding the pressing necessity of j .. M ftiftifetlra. in which any part of ibU plan canb#brewg ttato operation, Wd Stanley desuM me toadd, that he emmbt undertake to arrang for thsteta bli huieut #f a vessel to ran to any re.lony ua il hrr MA which may ensue trot,, rendering T X i , S, Hxuense. Subject to thto condition, he win take tiis earliest opportunity ot bringing the plan into ope-ri On the 17th of December the merchants inte rested in British Guiana gave the required guarantee for that colony, which guarantee was stated to e satisfactory, and that immediate measures would he taken to send a vessel to Sierra Leone. It s be-lieyed that the merchant interested in Jamaica anti Trinidad are prepared to give similar guar wives. Here, then, we find in tbe month ot August, two committees of the House of Commons recommend ing immigration as ft means of saving West India property from farther depreciation and in tbe month of October a meeting ot West India merchants, pressing on her Majssxy'b Government the ne cessity of adopting the suggestions of the com mittees to avert the threatened rum of the West India colonits, subsequently furnishing the Colo nial Minister with a detailed plan of immigra tion and yet up to this day no vessel bas been hired for the purpose of carrying African labourers to the West Indies. It will be handy credited that the minister who introduced the great treasure of emancipation, and conducted it with inch ability through all its stages in the House of Com-mops, in the year 1833, is the same Minister wbo preside over the colonial department at present. Yet, Lord Stanley held tbe seals for tho colonial department in 1833, and does ao now. ,V states man's character is so much involved in the ulumato success of that great measure as that ot Lord tan-Kffv ' ' reugtds KintutAfnl. ua. - . j fins been attended by raiDO 1 ! ws- a to law. proprietory body. We also see ifrat mean have been pointed out not only to pre vent the further depreciation of property m the West Indies, but to improve the condi. on ot the African, Notwithstanding all this, the noble loro at the head of the Colonial Department has not taken any efficient measure for the aecomp'ish-ment of the objects so loudly called for by pressing necessity. By tbe adoption of wise and energetic measures for promoting immigration to tbe West Indian Colonies, Government wotfld do more to put an end to tbe foreign rfave trade, than it is possible to do by treatiet, or the employment ot ship ofwar on thrcoast of Africa. Hu it escaped Lord Stanley's notice that by introdueinga large influx of labourers to tbe West Indian colonics, they would be enabled to compete with siave-grown sugar iu the markets of Europe, end Government would be able to do away with tbe present prohibitory duties on foreign snjur that our exports ta the West Indies would be doubled, and tbe people of England would lie supplied with cheap sugar produced by the labour of freemen? That our West Indian colo nies are capable of supplying tbe home market with sugar there cannot be a doubt. Wi b a suf ficient supply of labour, Jamaica, British Guiana, aud Trinidad would produce more sugar than the present consumption of Europe amounts to, leaving out of sight Barbadoes, Antigua, and tbe oth r imsdier colonies. With all these important objects before him, Lord Stanlky is allowing the reccsi to pass away without propounding Buy measures for their accomplishment. ufls Mussulman governor for the Dm-Augsburg lazeile says, t'.u us temporary . .. , tri2. The Shehao family or that cf tbe old excluded. Tbia fe natural. As he uled ov - -c ha must still have Influence over that tribe r.,, ieettohi®, whuff, vould heed disterfram .. 2 governors are uider tbe nomination of the P i .. It is remarkable that the Fokty y ields ti. moment that ths difficulties about Servfe ar-Augsburg Gazette a ■ that thi French An M. OR Bourqubset, hs ded. ti that t King is not opposed to the protectorate over tl® Danubitn provinces.au. . euDseqm opposed to th# restoration of the Obreno B0UH8E-PARI#'Tkursda v, Dr. . tl ALP-FAST Tli av. .-The mar. • ' !' yesterday, wi'l ttke fair quantity i bisic Account tha Tlir i p • Cents, opvueti at , r ''. ■ , 79f' aud ck d at , t'tdoff oc- '' r lf Tbs Eire per Cent , op d at 11W.-VK, ... 1 lOf. 00 -., a rise ol be. Ear won ,y tl.o Hire l c. and tho Five pel Ckiii- . uglier. I w Belgian BankSbar have .'t varied, h per Cent , are i high. -, an New Five per day. Spanish Active ha 344 advanced to 24J-Fire n 5 mprov d advance-! to Y4£-Liwt pn tU£Q68 7 Fi9° pet Cfc Hoads are -6c. bitfbjr There has been Ihss of yesterday sad they rood deal done in Bank closed at 3f. Ttc . higher. fi per ecu M if is l roved J. i hiiVft lM,'lh litilW'iv ! es fJ-.ie i f . bri. Pr. 1.' Pi Cf Preach p ' Oests .. 4 pe. CenM..- ••• • D 8 per Cents . ' 7P Ufflttefe n j rs of Siezagra. Africa to f.ni.ievkk, our brav cc health of the President we i ' o uruuK mi ic a simple pe i experienced st cb' r ot Wc have received Lisbon news lo theffflib ult., j brought by the Montrose steamer. Nothing defini tive had been done respecting tbe tariff' queslii n, but it was expected to be decided in one way or tbe other, as far es the plenipotentiaries are concerned, in the course of a few days. The Suffren French hne-of-battle ship, Admiral. Gazy, commander, bad arrived at Lisbon, where tbe Freuch have also a corvette and a brig-of-war and it wasoaid that two other vessels were expected and there was a report, indeed, that a squadron under the command of an admiral was to be stationed at Lisbon for some time. The Spanish Government has finally, it would Rot up ia hi turn, appear, resolved upon claiming the delivery up of rutitnn,' which he the Gloria, alias Grande Antiila, on the novel Thb' Cw r.' Tbr ITT.-Tkc #t ro~ land was oit Saturday affixed to thedresty . l. lietween thi cauniry and China, h, e r, ton' Lorij Chancellor, in Great jco ge-atrevt, square, aiti-r whii-h it was trsr.-roi'toi to die IV for the purpose of bang forwtrded to the Celt ,' • pire, under the care of Major M alcolm Th , ,, , . . inclosed in a very handsome ailv box simila. It would rather seem that a veas i navigate usei i for th oat,.nt of bis ito-yul iiigbaeos tbo Pi without regular pipers, having a Spanish cr. r, and ! Wai.es , and, t ycher with u. important i u sailioK under Portuguese colours in opposition to i whi.-h it appt. to inclosed to an dag '-c ■ n - - - - -• • - t. t ti-e seal itself, it i 1 ee Portuguese laws, professiug to b bound on a peace-ful voyage to tbe ooaet of Africa for ivory and palm oil, but found at. Mosarobiqne to Lave a crew of 70 men armed to the teelh, carrying C pieces of artillery, besides a long 24-pound snivel gun, anti bavin ou board all the appaiatus of fetters, cauldron , and other accompaiiiments of a slaver -. , , • .. r , , , l. y nev Sues Hotel and transit warehou. it would rathar seem that a vessel capturctl under r , r0 silljri uinbt, of iauo i with crimson i no trace of the h wUt exist whe.i t of the yielding n , posed ■ indeed, ■ that d irinff tha i i land am Is ndon tut design Extract ot a letter fro ipres ,.n ot Mr. N von' bt-.u ii- cas- reaches it., dsetinat . tore of the unterial fwhi l former o-'ca. ions, irhas be... mparatively hcrt jccrnvjb-m Suez, dated di curing an immediate supply of labour to the West India colonies, not only have no steps been taken by Lord Stanlky to carry into effect the recommenda tion of the two committees, but up to the 2.1th October tbe West Indian body were without any communication from the Colonial Minister regarding tha intentions of her MijKSTr'g Government. Or the 20th of Opto her 8 meeting of merchants con nected with the VVpst Indies was held in the City, when a leries of resolutions were parsed, calling upon Government to adopt measure to carry into effect the recommendations and suggestions of th# two committees. The sentiments of the meeting may be gathered from tbe Ctb and 7'h resolution# -9th. That tbe delay of her .Majesty's Government ur adopting any sucb measures is tele with peculiar severity ut this period, as it not only pare lyres the hopes formed of relief from the iccamulatod distress and loss of previous year , bat precludes the possibility of those interests iu tbo colonies obtaining assistance which is Indispensably necessary for tiie cultivation of estates, and threatens the destruction of that commercial support from the mother country, without which it is impossible for the trade of the colonies to be upheld. 7th. That tbia meeting, therefore, feels imperatively coiled an to impress in the most strenuous manner upon her Majesty's government, the necessity of following up, with out lurther delay, the suggestions contained in the report of tbe two committees, by adopting an effectual aud imme diate plan of Immigration into th colonies, together with snnh other meaeurer to restore oomm-rcial confidence as may, if possible, avert the threatened min of this most im portant branch of trad to the British empire, restore the prosperity of the West India colonies, and consummate the success of the great work of emancipation. A memorial foanded on these resolution# was drawn up and iran#m.tted, together with th# reso lution , to Lord Stanley and the other members of the Cabinet. On tha tub of November a depu tation of the West Indian agent# and merchants waited on Lord Standby j at this interview the deputation wa# reoue ted by his lordahlp to furnfeh him with a detailed statement of their view# respect ing immigration under Government superintendent #. On tha 13tb November a scheme ol immigration wa# submitted to Lord Standby, and on the 13th De cember Mr. Secretary Hope acknowledged tbe re ceipt of the document, and in hi# communication be stetee '-11 1 am directed by Lord STANLar to state that, although ha cannot entertain the application as regards the steam vessel, on account of tha very heavy expense which, ac cording to his present Information, would be incurred, he is prepared to assent to the general plau tor carrying ou such immigration by mean of vessels to be hired by Qovenmient, and having on board a Government agent, aa in the case of transport it being, however, clearly understood that the entire expensi! of such vereeis mas' be defrayed by tb colonies to wbtdi b y run. Although Ijwd StaNPTT ' such circumstance ought to be considered as i pirate, and instead of pleading the irregularity of the papers as a ground for impunity, ought to suffer sou'e addi tional penalties beyond those to which her owners would nave been liable, if, isatead of hoisting false colour , they had in 8 more open and daring way braved the risks of their piratical speculation under their own national flag. The Portuguese Government was carrying re trenchment into all the branches of the expenditure to a greater or less extent. Tbe Queen had again given up fifty contoa of her income, and Ihe Kino Consort forty contos, to meet the exigencies of ths Treasury. A statement had been published of the actual situ ation of tbe Lisbon Fishery Company, by which it was shown that during the seven years of its exist ence it had lost 70 per cent, of its capital, notw ith standing the high duties put on foreign salt fish for its protection. The Opposition journals had spread a report that a French loan of 1,000 contos was on the taj Is which, however, had been strotgly denied by the ministerial press. The Government had concluded an arrangement with the Tobacco Contract arid Confiar.ga Company, by which the decima and other imposts pledged to route companies for the balance# due to them on account of former advances to the Government, would be set free, the Conhar fj companies receiving Treasury bills, and tbe Tobacco contractors bills admissible at tbe Cnttcm-bouse for the tobacco duties, flee., for the amount of their balances. ■ We have received our French express of Thursday and Friday. The paper are occupied with the nre i-sage of the President of the United States. The way in which that document speaks of the Eight of Search, and of the negotiation touching it with Lord Ashburton, puts, every word of it, a weapon into the bunds of the French opposition. The Fresident, indeed, speaks to France on this subject, with a Go and do thou likewise' tone of advice, and thus tally display# the spirit in which the Government of Washington negotiated wi h Lord Ashburton, and in which tliut diplomatist chimed. We cannot but regret to find Lord Ashburton's eo-negociatore thus throw siBrious obstacles in the way of M. Guizot's keeping faith and peace with England. VV e had understood that the buccaneering conduct and arguments of General Cass in Paris had not been altogether approved of by bis Government, and we will do the King of the French the justice to say that be did not approve of them. But President Tyler now comes forth with an approval of General Cass's conduct, and acts upon it himself, doing his utmost to incite tbe French to a breach of their treaties with it . We must say, that we did not expect sucb a result aa this a the immediate consequence of Lord Ashburton's treaty of peace out of thi treaty both French and Americans derive arms for combating every effectual mode of putting down the slave trade, We know not how far Lord Ashburton bas im mortalised himseJf. But he certainly ha# done more than any man living to immortalise the slave-trade. The National of Thursday has an article on the deficit in French finances. It state# The estimated expense of the Budget of 1843 are 1 1 8ft2 1 0b0,000fi The estimated l.tibl.ooojooo Dsflclt foremen TlfiOOfiOOC. General Boat Aim's expenses ere much greeter than foreseen. What with building eteamtw, dota tion to railroad#, tbe export ie . independent of the extra hurrying of tbs fortifications, cannot be less then 1,400,000,000. That i.,'2,000,000 .terling more than was foreseen, leaving a deficit of 6,000,OoO sterling. The National estimate# the deficit at 4,000,000 sterling. It is little wonder with these prospects, and the necessity of disposing of another third of the 460,000,000 loan, that M. Lacavb Laplagnh should announce bis wi-h to resign, and withdraw from the difficulties of the Finance Mi-nistry. The AustrianObstrver corediorate the news, that the Porte bad yielded on the Syrian question to the demands of England and Auttrie, so far es the no bs minatforj of a Obrietiw gover-or tar the Marotiites, ployt.t. lt rti. i ly utio'vs Mbhkmrt All s ti. #u ittfeent,bsiiueptu edont very exttasiv in my opinion, rase', too larg- for lie profcab ment of rravslleai or trsfl'K at tiii place. The legraplisbetween this and ' rc a..-o wi-il ad' r Falmouth, Dec. 31.--The Montros. arrived here this aftemrou, bridging dote a Gibraltar, December 22. Cadiz 2t , ,bon 20, '' ana Vigo 28, with the Moira iuterine t are mail. Covert-Garden Thkairb.-'The u i T mime has continued an attractive ears '. • to be brougLt out next Friday, end La Dm i do immediate v aflt.rwi.rds. W a perceive that both i' u and Dupes' nre engaged. Thf. Failcrr op the Yorkshire B meeting of '.he iht tti.clders of tb Yorkabire A ani 'otna. rcial Pink wa held ui the M-rob York, on Thursday Mr. Blanchard, tb choir tered into a long rtafrmeut. Tv appeared ti,ai t of the original oipit had been lost, and that f ti of tbe bank amounted to upward of F179, M t . very stormy nwjmg, during ,ich ee .at of ti holders deflated they hi d embarked the who fortunes in the company, end chat they were no' ' wa, resolved that u cat of £1 tier share, in .■ t ths two calls ic £11 ach lately granted, should the purpose O'-O ctir.g the deficiency, and ih-fr t the eompaay should ,e wound .ip as soon a pot greatestdntress prevail in tenacity and neigntjou.' the subject. We find that, besides the loss ol capital oi the bauk, there will be a icfiofow VM!.000 V there dm 35,000 shares ii.isharehc .• h,r will he -cuiareu to pay the deficit. We ? tli - original paid-up capital of the bauk was J which tl ol.ty i had been added nines, making £211,000. Tr whole of thi fas been lost. T errors were committed at the very outset. Ti tooK tt ■ timin'. of the .Yortheru aud Oatn L -d , paid them £0,000 for tbe goo.i-vi l account to tho amount of £83,000, for wiiic down Bauk oi England not and on which £r has been a lot of about £40,000 ! W , ed i blenders ot every rind might be . t . - tea fro who could make such a bargain iu orerice ' whose account they took. There'.eight nev been a dividend declared all tta iividerd ha-out of capital. it Is a painful f, ati.i of tbe ca . of the shareholder aio widow mi person of , who, tempted by the succtvv of two o' rbai invested their all ia this under.-king, i., Uav-thlng.-Aereb Merer-, at Sqturd y. The latr Murder at Spernall.-one of tlio cu'Cii'T for theccap'y of Warwick Stndley onTuerdav , and proceed' - to hold a the b dy of the unfortunate Tilsley ot tho Me Bead Ion. A jury of twenty-four -hlv i cp vidtials a niuniiioucd, aud elect,d Thooie of Moretoii Baggott, a foreman ifter oeim they proceeded with the coroner to view the wa laid in e woo,l hovel near the muse ot A', t ecu. Tbo head prevented a king pect#c, vered with brains and biota, 'he t ain pro' tht wound in tbe front as .u it at the I head. At tbe conclusion of ice the. which we h#vr fully ajtir.pii ,d i our rt v count , theftoroner briefly surntr ' ' y, sod th .'• a short consultation, returned a verdlr of V- I agbinst 1 me Crowley ana the . roner issued the acresoury authority for die a webe muideu r. The coroner also et'rto , his . writingto 8ir James Graham, s .wv of ? ■ Home Department, for the pu -! oJi i . operation of cuverofiitct, and . .ferofa rev litate tho ad of justice. The pro • mg bet ncrexcited considerable iu' rest u.auyof ■ ■ n, clergy and g-ntry w. re in t in gast-rocn s ticular attention to the evWcnco prod'- iip.nti b c o 'Ciision. Ml the approaches, to the ecer. plorable tragedy were lined with i irties anxioi glance at th® mangled remains of th ' uolortunat. and obtain a view of tbo rt' 1 ' 'round v c. appalling event has thrown .ueiat.m painful on interest. Much sympathy . ! ' for the wift and orpi n. ' i fcildrtn ol poor '.n Crowley, the murderer, is 29 ear of eg , and stoot and wsll-proport ivd. l • victim, was ibont tweniy-t ' V ' same rise, but it is considered J K '-match for hi .'ssa sin 'a. e enen • • The body oi n or Tilsley, site! ro his father's house at lembeunt, sC' from Spurns'l sad on Muitutuisy y. churchyard c r CoughtoP. near A ' • '• ws cannot cuuclno our psinfui a uouiicomsiit of tbe a prehsnrion oi We ax Ida ' on be adj-basis o be C rts u pr mast, diminii the ex purlin The the p duties work form 1
eor no Confidence in any of the National Troops, notwith landing their warm Alfurance of Loyalty, Fi. delity, and Averfion to the Germans. It is every Day more and more vifible in Bavaria, that the People are exceffively difcontented, and wait only an Opportunity of taking Arms again!! the Aullrians which fprings chiefly from that Spirit of Loyalty, for which the Bavarians have been always famous. Yefterday the following Biihops took the Oaths and their Seat in the Houfe of Peers, viz. Dr. Thomas, Bi hop of Lincoln, Doftor Lifle Bilhop of St. Afaph, and Doftor Trevor, Bilhop of St. David's. This Day feveral Troopers Horfes will be embarked on board the Tranfports at Gravefend, as alfo feveral Officers Horfes in order to remount the Cavalry in Flan ders the Officers having received Orders to repair to their refpeflive Corps forthwith. Private Advices from Franckfort intimate that fome new and grand Deflgn is there on the Anvil. His Im perial Majefty fpeaks as if he was fure to recover his Country, and 'tis thought he removes to Nuremberg from thdt Profpefl. The King's Baggage is getting ready with all Expedi tion, his Majefty intending to embark for Helvoetfluys as foon as the Parliament rifes. The Royal Sovereign, a full Rate, is to be flationcd in the Channel, and to have two Companies of Marines on board. Sir Charles Hardy's Squadron defign'd for the Mediterranean, is to confift of one of ico Guns, three of 90, four of 80, one of 70, one of 60, and one of 50, befides a Bomb Ketch, c. Six Hundred and Fifty Soldiers have been draughted out of the Foot Guards, to be tranfporced to Flanders. abstracts. Birth Lady Smithfon, Wife of Sir Hugh Smithfon, Bart, a Daughter. Marriages. Thomas Ssaly, Efq of Lincolnfhire, to Mrs. Mellar, a Widow Lady, with zcooo . down, and will have 200001. more at the dcccafe of Clement Wood, Efq of Lincoln, her Father. Spencer Lewis, of Dor-fet, Efq to Mifs Freeman, with 100 so l. Promotions.1 Nath. Shirley, Infpeflor of the Cufloms at Hull and Scarborough. Mr. Rawlins, Comptroller of Sheernefs. John Winue, F.iq Deputy Treafurer of Chelfea Hofpital. Preferments. Dr. Taylor, of St. John's, Cambridge, Chancellor of that Dioeefs. Dr. Shippen, to the Liv ing of Amerlham, Bucks. Zachary Brooke, M. A. Vig f Ickleton, Cambridgsflrire. xrupts. Richard Hutchings the Elder, of Crew-,ie, Somerfet, Yarn wafher. Sarah Bethel , of South-ark, Baker. Richard Wogan, of Deptford, Kent, Brewer. Thomas Geheem, London, Merchant. Deaths J Lewis Suddard, Efq of Yorklhire. Roger Barnfton, ofEflex. Ef i at Ghent . w c-_ his Travels. William Wilmer, Efq Member for North hampton. Lord Nithifdale, a Roman Catholick, Scotch Peer that efcr.ped out of the Town in the late Reign, at Rome. Sir John Peachy, Member for Midhurlt. 'Taken By the Englijh. A privateer Schooner drove afhore by the Solebay, and, 'cis thought, funk under Pedro Point. Anne of 300 Tons, from Havre, by the 'Jerfey. F. Nancy, from Santa Cruz, retaken by the Tufcany, Sprackling. A French. Bilandcr of 120 Tons, bound from Oporto to Havre, by the Captain, into Portfraouth. Black Prince, a Spanifh Privateer, by the Fox Man of War. Three prizes on the Spaniih Main, worth near 800001. by two Leeward-lfland Privateers. Taken by the French and Spaniards. Revival, Ball, from Topffiaifl.'Yor Carolina, off the Madeiras, S. Two Coafters off the lfle of Wight, into Havre, F. John and Eliza, Furfej om Hamburgh, for Topfliam, into Dunkirk, F, Amity, Famine, from Faro to Cork, in to Almeria, S. Two Sloops belonging to Providence, by a Privateer Schooner belonging to Barracoa. is ?. The Loo Man of War, on the Rocks in the Streights of the Bahama lflands, together with a prize which fhe had juft taken before. Crew faved. A Spa nifh Privateer of Force, ear the fame iil.nids. Bank Stock 144. i-lialf. India 172. S. Sea 105 1.4th. COUNTR Y-N E W S. Liverpool, April There is now fitting out at this Port, 10 fail in 30 Days, the following Ships for Priva teers, •visa. Ranger, jooTons, 20 Carriage and 16 Swivel Guns, with 200 Seamen and 40 Landmen. The Fortune-hunter, 130 Tons, 14 Carriage and 6 Swivel Guns, with too Seamen and 20 Landmen. The Prizes to be divided in Shares according to cuftom. Perfons inclined to fign the Articles may apply to Mr. Samuel Ogden, Samuel Read, or to Jofcph Mo-nelly of this Place, and on Examination they hall hold any Station or Poll thought luitable for them by the Proprietors. Imported at Liverpool from March 29 to April i, From Antigua 56 Bags Colton. 395 Elephant's Teeth. 1 1-1 hd. Rum. From N. Carolina. 670 Bar. Tar. 3200 Bar. Staves. 600 Pieces Heading. 6 Logs Walnut. 12 Doz. Hand, - fpikes. From Ireland. 177 Trufies, 25 1f Trufies 3 Bundles LinnenYarn. 95 Trufies, 1 half y-afs Woollen, ditto. 8 Pieces Linnen Cloth. 1 half in i' ax. 38 Tom. Soaper's Wafte. 1 Parcel loofe h. Soap. Ships enter'd autvts. Exchange Watfon, for Hamburg Fox, Painter, foi Port Ruth. Fanny, Middleton, loScoc-kiiolm. Proi-perous, Town fend Dublin Trar Hamlet George and Polly, Shaw, and Dean Swift, ' r.ic'ch, fer Dub tin. B R I S T O L, • r l j 4, To the Author of the Bris ii, Oracle. SIB, T HE Cafe of Kirby and Wade, ite'y publlfti'd in the London News Papers, brings'.o my Remembrance the ignominious Punifhmnent ir.fli d on Cowards and Runaways by the wife Uepublick at Sparta, fo famous in Grecian Story and it being ve7 a propcs to the late Conduft of certain Naval Officers ir ihe Mediterranean, you will oblige the Publick by inferring rhe following Paragraph taken out of Plutarch's life of Ageftlaus, and more particularly your conllant Reafer. 9 A. B. ' The Law in that Cafe was fevere, for Cowards and Runaways were not only deg-ided from ail Ho nours, but it was alfo a Difgrat to intermarry with them whoever met any of then m the Mvc-cts might beat them if he pleated, nor wasit lawful for them to refill in the mean time, they were obliged to go abroad in a nafty Habit, with heir G .c. n patch'd of divers Colours, and to wear their Beard.. half lliav'd and half unlhaved. Plutarch's Lives, Tol. 4. Page 31. Came in fince our le i Prince Charles, Lang, Betty, ■ - ■ from Opcrto. Mary, from Lisbon. Arrived at other Ports. Union, Callles, from Madeira, at South Carolina. King's-wellon, at Antigua. Planter, Lavers, from South Carolina, at Cowes. SailedJince ■ ur lafl. Titeup, Backhoufe, and P. cecix, Vye, for Ireland. Imported fines our 1,, i. From Oporto. 342 Pipes, 11 Ilogfncads, 1 Quarter Cask Portugal Wine. 20 Baskets, 1 b Che It Oni ons. 220 C. Cork. 30 Bags Sumach. 20 Hams. From Dingle. 2 Hhds. Tallow, 4 Hhds. Coney Skins, For the Benefit of Mr. Mozeen. AT THE HEATRE in S TO K E's-C RO FT. On Monday the t6fh of Ap'riL, will be A£led a Tragedy call'd. The D-IS.TRE-3 T ZYI.O THE K. To which will be added a Dramatick Tale,called. The KING and the MILLER of Mansfield. And on Friday the 20th of this Inll. For the Benefit of Mr, BAKE R• Will be performed a CONCERT Of vocal and inftrumental M U S I C K. Between the A£ls will be performed a Comedy call'd. The INCONSTANT Or, the Way to win Him. ■ 0 -k.'jo-To he Jold in Fee. T WO Mcffuagcs or Tenements, with a large Garden thereto belonging, fituate in Milk-fireet T in this City, now in the Occupation of Mr. Ockwell, Tidefroan, and others. For particulars enquire of Mr. Evans, Attorney, in the Old-Market. Briflol, April 14, 1744. VCjHereas Philip Shehan, of the Parifla of Clifton, in the County of Gtoueefler, Gent, having been lately obliged to enter into a certain foreign Minifter's Service, and that from hence it may be fnppofed he lias fought and acquir'd a Privilege, by Way of a permanent Pro-te ion. This is therefore to afeertain, that all fuch as I Hand lawfully indebted to, or W. Welch of this City, Merchant, lately decealcd, flood lawfully indebted to, I will, as foon as 'tis in my power, dilcharge all fuch Debts with Honour. Witncfs my Hand, Philip Shehan. and Forty Acics of Ground, held by Leafe from the Duke cf Beaufort, lot tl - Remainder of a Term of 99 '.'ears, now determinable on the Dccenfcs of Mr Wil liam Bonne , and Mr, John Bonner jun. of Abergavenny, under a Rent of to . 2 s. od. per Annum, and belt Beall, 01 3 t for an Ilerriot. The lifb.te is divided into two Farms one of which is Jet to fames Hughes, at tin Yearly Rent of 2 and the other o Henry 'Johns, at the Ren ol 22 . Tl.cle Ten nants have rented the VremilV lor feveral Years Enquire of Meflis. Fortune and 'luc.nutn, Attorneys in Monmouth, or Meins. 1 lav kins and H ad . Attorney in Bridal. M To be fold by Auflion or othewife. Wedncfdny the lfl.lt Irfan!, at the Houfe of Parcel of lecotul hand Plate, confiding of Coffee pot?. Waiters, Caftors, Salt?, Sec. Aifo to be Let or Sold, a Houfe in the Old-Market, held under the Chamber by I.eafe, for Ninety Nine Years, de'crminnble on One Life. For Particulars Ei,quire of Mr. Edward Feed n foie fit id. no at the To be S O L D, Ella re call'd Monoughty y Wine, fituate in the Parilhes of Llanvihangel, Pont Mote, and Mamhi ■ lad in the County of Monmouth, confining of two Farm Houfes, and proper Out-Houfet, and two hundred A N Pa The True S C 0 2 C H PILLS T EFT to Pollcrity, by Ds -Patrick And r on of Edit • lurgh, Phyfician to his Majciiy King Charles I. and coniiaiu-ly ufed as his ordinary PhyiK -by King Charles II. are faith fully prepar'd from the Origi nal .Receipt, and made up in long oval Boxes as they have been for feveral Years and fer.l'd Top with black Wax, with Dr. Andcrfin's Head, and round it Dr. PATRICK ANDERSON, and under it, on a Scrol, ORIGINAL SCOTS PILLS, exaft as in the Margin Tluy are of excellent Ufe in all Cafes where purging is requir'd, and may be taken with Epfiom. Scarborough, Nevel Holt Water, or other Medicinal Waters. The following Cure is juft receiv'd by one Box of the above PI L L S, Benjamin Cowlct, I ockfmith, in Waolverhampton, being afflifted with an Ague and Fever, and finding little or no Relief from the many Medicines wh ch he had taken, was prevailed on to take Dr. Anderfinds Scotch Pills, made up in oval Boxes, and fesled with Dr. Audcrfin's Head as above, i taking the firlt Dole lie found Relief, and in taking three Nights fucceffively, his Illnefs was wholly removed, and he is now as well as ever he was in his Life ■ Th .Curc is very extraordinary, by Rea on he felt the EfFefls of ic fo fuddenly. To prevent any Abufes by cnnnfM I sorts, mem f are only fold by Mr. Fleetvjood in Liverpool, Mr. Stubbs in Cbcjler, Mrs. Newton, and Mr John Berry, Watchmaker in Mancbefier, at St. Michael's Coffee-Houfe in Maudlin Lane, and at my Printing-Office in Shannon-Court, Briflol, and by the Perfons w ho ferve this Paper JPhcre tnay be had Dr. Ratcliff's only true Spccifick TiniWire for the Tooth-Ach, and all Diforders and Defefls of the Teeth and Gums whatever. W HICH gives immediate Eafe in the mod violent and tormenting Pain, when nothing elfe will and by conllant ufing never fails to pre vent its Return. At once or twice ufing it makes the foulcft Teeth moll beautifully white, afluredly fallens thofe that are loofe, and infallibly preferres the Teeth from growing rotten, and thofe a little de cay'd from becoming worfe. It perfectly cures the Scurvy in the Gums, and caufes them to grow up to the Teeth again in a very hart Time and. is ex ceeding for an ill feented Breath. No Remedy in the World is of greater Efficacy for little Children who are cutting their Teeth, freeing them wholly from that Heat and,Pain which fo conftantly attends them, and often is the caufe of other Diforders. Be-fidcs thefe its ineftimable Qualities and foie inherent Virtues, by which it has juftly gain'd fuch an univer-and unparallel'd great Character, it effedluaily pre-ferves the Teeth and Gums from all Manner ol Foul-nefs, Corruption, and Putrifa ion and is neither difagreeable to the Taft or Smell. JVhert aljo may be had, The mod incomparable and Never-failing CHYM1CA1. D R O P S. B E I N G a fpcedy Cure for Coughs, Colds, Aflhma's, v heecing, difficult Breathing, and fhortnefs of Breath, and all Sort? of Confumptions, for their Virtues vaftly exceed any thing that ever was publifh'd, or ever known to this Age, in the Cure of the wer
f c-Ora pWV-4 uU Pactft an'Ci OR YORKSHIRE AND LINCOLNSHIRE GENERAL ADVERTISER. ?Vt f rn f -. timber jK TUESDAY, January 1, 1828 PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY T. TOPPING, AT THE OFFICE, 51 LOWGATE, HULL. Price 7d.-Vol 42 -No. 2250. TO THE PATRONS OF Still Duhrt Jr Santbfr fftcrturp, AND TUF. PUBLIC IX GF. XERAL. Impressed with feelings of gratitude and respect, the Proprietor of The Hui.i. Packet and Humped Mercury returns liis sincere acknowledgments to his Friends and the Public, for the liberal support afforded to the undertaking in which he has engaged. In connecting himself with this concern, as a fair and honourable speculation, lie was in-flucnqpd chiefly by the persuasion, that a Journal so long established, and at one period possessing so large a share of public favour, could not fail, if conducted with spirit, to rise in generr.l estimation, and to attain ultimately such respectability in circulation and commercial patronage as would amply repay his exertions. In pursuance of this object, various improvements were introduced into the typographical department of The Packet the size of the sheet was considerably enlarged, and other arrangements were adopted, by which not only the amount of miscellaneous reading contained in the old paper was nearly doubled, but a greater quantity and variety of matter presented to the reader, in this publication, than in either of the other papers printed in Hull. The event has proved that the efforts of the Proprietor to raise this publication to eminence, as a most useful and interesting Provincial Journal, have been fully appreciated by a liberal and discerning Pubhc. The result has already exceeded his most sanguine anticipations not only has the circulation of The Packet obtained, in the space of two months, an increase of subscribers unprecedented in so short a period, but the numerous favours of the mercantile and other classes, which appear in its columns weekly, prove it to be alveady firmly established as an eligible vehicle for Advertisements, and Notices of every description.-In return for the extensive support he has received, the Proprietor, in acknowledging the heartfelt obligations he is under to his numerous Friends and the Public generally, takes this opportunity to express his intention to spare no pains or ex ienseto sustain the credit already acquired by The Hull Packet and Humber Mercury, and to meet with spirit, and with alacrity, competition of every description. In accordance with this determination, he respectfully an nounces, that arrangements are now in progress for increasing the size of this Journal by the ADDITION of FOUR FULL COLUMNS, in width the twenty-four columns of which the paper will then consist, to be of such additional length, as may appear consistent with symmetry and fair proportion. A compensation will thus be given to the general reader, for the space occupied by the Advertisements and Notices so liberally contributed to The Packet, through the kindness of its commercial friends, and for the room unavoidably taken up by the Markets, Shipping Intelligence, and other articles, valuable to men of business, but conducing little to the . interest and attractions of a Newspaper. So very important an increase of space will enable the conductors of this paper to devote more attention to many subjects of a popular cliaracter, that have been necessarily curtailed in their limits in preceding publications, and to impart in other respects an improved feature to this Journal. The Parliamentary proceedings of the ensuing Session, under the present cir cumstances of the country, will possess a paramount claim upon the attention of all classes of the community. By the increased size of this paper, its conductors will be enabled to present the reader with a faithful transcript of the most important Debates, without abridging the local, mercantile, agricultural, and other intelligence, interesting to the readers of a Provincial Journal. The period during which this pub lication has been conducted by the parties at present engaged in it has been so short, that it would be presumptuous to allude particularly to their past labours. It will merely be remarked, tliat the tone of candour and impartiality hitherto distinguishing its pages, will continne to be maintained and that every exertion will be made to render its contents useful, varied, and entertaining.-In conclusion, we beg our numerous Friends to' accept from us tlie compliments of the season, which we hope it will be our fortune to pay to them for many succeeding years, assuring them, that our congratu lations flow from hearts grateful for their kind and liberal support. 1 R. NORRIS'S FEVER DROPS . T HIS celebrated Medicine is allowed to be superior to any other remedy in all cases of Fevers, Sore Throats Slow Fevers, commonly called Nervous,Typhus Fever, and Agues, and ail those Disorders which arise from obstructed perspira tion. In hot climates, where Fluxes and Bilious Complaints are very prevalent, especially in the West Indies and America, these Drops are, bv extensive and successful experience, proved to be invaluable. They produce perspiration m the most gentle and easy manner, and without giving the Patient the least disturbance or uneasiness. These Drops, given agreeablv to the direction in tlie several and distinct cases not a single instance has ever come to the knowledge of Dr Norris, in which they have failed to cure. Purchasers are requested to observe that the genuine preparation of Norris's Drops, will have engraved on tlie Stamp Thomas Norris Moore. Price 2s. 9d.-1 Is. and in Family Bottles 22s, csclii Sold by T. Topping, R. Allanson, Moxon, Smith Co. Hammond, Turner Co. Ross Burton, Healey, Hudson, Wilkinson,and Lofthouse,Hull Kenmngham, Tigar, Turner, and Ramsdon, Beverley Dixon, Barton Sherwood, Drif field Faiigray, Bridlington Fox, Bridlington-Quay and all Medicine Venders. SO .0,1 0.V CORDIAL JIAL.V OF GILEAD I S a most agreeable ami powerful restorative in all Nervous Dis. orders. This celebrated Cordial is peculiarly efficacious m Inward Wasting , Loss of Appetite, Indigestion, Depression of Spirits, Trembling or Staking of tlie Hands, sliortne of Breath and Consumptive Habits. It eases tlie most violent Pains in the Head and Stomach, and promotes gentle perspiration. By the Nobility and Gentry this Medicine is much admired, being pleasant to tlie taste and smell, gently astringing the fibres of the stomach and citrine that proper tone which a good digestion requires. Nothing c m be better adapted to assist the constitution which has been much in lured by the irregularities of youth, habits of studious application, a life of pleasure, or a residence in hot climates or those wdio from anv cause have fallen into a despondent state of mind or that dis-. 'sine train of svmiitoms, commonly denominated the Nervous. persons Ita nentaf powers are not le enfeebled than the corporeal, and to them a remedy that acts wflh prompt efficacy, W lti inu t interfering with domestic habits, is peculiarly desirable. SoW by T T pping, Allanson, Turner and Co. and Radford, Hull Turner, Beverley and all respectable Medicare enders in bottles at lls. each, and family bottles, containing the quantity or 0fthe ANTUMPETIGINES, or SOLOMON'S DROPS They are an effectual cure for such disorders as originate in a depraved habit of the body, as obstinate eruptions undue evacuations, chronic rheumatism, and the consequences of insidious Jr . It is a truly mild, safe, and effectual remedy, and the best sub. si itute hitherto discovered for that dangerous mineral M-mny. it is e-'tually well adapted to both sexes, and all ages, there are tew f imilies in which its great utility docs not admit of easy proof as a purifier of the Wood and a promoter of tlie natural secretions. Illustrations of the efficacy of tlie Cordial Bntm of Ciltad, and oi tne Aoli- lmprtini.es, are given in the Guide to Health, which also con. tains much interesting information on health and disease, particularly on tiie origin and treatment of such disorders as result from im prudence and fashionable vices. Sold in bottles price its. and 33s. each. Observe Sami Solomon Liverpool, is engraved on the Government stamp affixed to each The Fiy Pound Cares may be had at Gilead-House, as heretofore ROBBERDS't COUCH DROPS. m Drops have been long esteemed for their superior efficacy I in coughs, Colds, Asthmas, and Consumptions they are the invention of an Apothecary ofcon itkrable practice, who stakes l.is reputation on their salutary properties the extension of their sale, and the invariable success which accompanies their application prove ttat they are a Remedy to be depended upon, on the first attack Of Cold, and in tlie most obstinate Cough and Asthma, in a suit commenced in Chancery and lately decided, Messrs. Shaw and Edwards proved flair absolute Right and Title to tins valuable Medicine. Jlr. Edwards, now the sole Proprietor, informs the Public tint the above Drops are faithfully prepared by him from the original Recipe as sworn to bv Mr. Roiibi iids, the Inventor, and in Ins pos session and ttat every bottle of the genuine preparation will have engraved on the stamp, Evan Edwards, 07, St. Paul s Sold in bottles 2s. 0.1. ami -Is. Gd. each, ami may Ire procured of Messrs. T. Topping, Allanson, Ross am I Burton, Hull Turner, and Ramsden, Beverley an 1 all Me Heine Venders. This Day is published, A1 TAIN PARK Vs first, Second, and Third Voyages, J beautifully printed in Five Pocket Volumes, with a Portrait. Map, and Views, engraved by Findcn, price only Twenty Shillings, 1 3 Printed for John Murray, AUtemarle-streot. NTTART.F.S WRIGHT, Wine Merchant to the Royal J Immily, King's Theatre, Opera Colonnade, Haymarket, London, has now on Sale, warranted, the finest Genuine WINKS and SPIRITS, at prices Cheaper than any other House in England. IP 1 Doz. PORT, from tlie Wood 23 ft Ditto, Superior Quality 28 ft Old misted, Vintage 1821 3ft ft Choice full of flavor and body Bom Retoiro 42 ft Wing Itoriz curious ..48 ft SHERRY, very good 28 ft Ditto, Superior Quality 28 0 Ditto, Pale Amontillado 8ft ft Ditto, Carvalho 42 ft The celebrated 0 Z 43 0 MADEIRA, high flavored West India 8ft ft Ditto, rich 3ft ' Jtnrd, Hcnncsie Rum, ami Whiskies Old Bottled Stout, Ale, Cyder, fee. from 7s. ftd. per dozen. Florence Oil in Cases, .' ft flasks. Seven Dozen of Port, Sherry, or Madeira, 23s. 6d. per dozen, well packed in a good Wine hogshead, fit for any use' including bottles, and for £10. Quarter Casks of Port and Sherry, 28 imperial gallons, permitted from the Docks to the Purchaser direct, Cask in-' elusive, £15 15s. Cape Madeira, 22 J Gallons imperial measure,all included 8 . Butts, Pipes, Hogsheads, cheaper than the above prices, Private Boxes, and Admissions for the King's, Covent-Garden, and Ilrury-Lane Theatres, by the Night,.Week, and Season. N.B. No Orders will be attended to unless accompanied with a Remittance, and Postage paid. r 1Z R. ALLANSON, Scale-Lane, B EGS most respectfully to inform his Friends and the Public, that he has just received a large supply of that celebrated domestic Medicine, the CORDIAL BALM of LIFE, viz. Dr. LAMER! 'S NERVOUS BALSAM, or, Nature's In fallible Restorative under his Majesty's Royal Authority, patronized by the Nobility, Army, Navy, and Persons of all ranks throughout Europe. A most convenient, safe, and infallible remedy for nervous and asthmatic disorders, in ward wastings, lowness of spirits, loss of appetite, palpitation of the heart, oppression of the breast, trembling or shaking of the hands or limbs, mental or bodily decay, seminal weak, ness, dimness of sight, obstinate coughs, shortness of breath-impaired memory, consumption, indigestion, sick head-ache, frightful dreams, pains or wind in the stomach, and all con stitutional complaints. The Balm of Life is not recommended indiscriminately for every disease incident to the human frame but for that class of diseases which are termed Nervous, it is an absolute speci fic. There is rarely a deviation from health in which it will not afford relief. It is to be considered that Nervous Diseases constitute one-third, or perhaps a greater proportion, of the disorders to which we are liable it has, therefore, been in disputably proved, that the Balm of Life invariably operates on the nerves, producing the most desirable and sanative effects, and is of the greatest service to everyone of those cases for which it is recommended. It may he given to the ten-derest infimt, the pregnant female, and' palsied old age, with safety and efficacy, hitherto unparalleled in the annals of medical discovery, bcifig a medicine which will keep in all climates. Prepared and sold, wholesale and retail, by the sole inven tor, Dr. Lamert, at his Old Medical Establishment, No. 10, Church-Street, Spitalfields, London, Ten Doors from the Church, and opposite the Chapel, which has been eslaklMbed for the last sixty years. ASTHMA AND CONSUMPTION. It is well known that Asthma and Consumption are the prevailing diseases of our northern climate. They a.e pe culiarly distressing and fatal among the labouring class, ltccause it possesses scanty means either of arresting their violence in the early stages, or mitigating the agonies of body and of mind, which unavoidably accompany their progress and their termination. Yet singular as it may appear, amidst all the excellent charities which have been established by the public benevolence, no scheme hits yet been adopted, by which the effect of a treatment, adapted in every respect to the nature of the complaints, might have a fair and perse vering trial. It is not too much to affirm, that the devastation of Asthma and Consumption, though not so rapid and striking, is more extensive, and accompanied with greater pain and misery than that of a pestilence. Would it be believed, or can it he reflected on without the deepest concern, that in London and its environs alone, ten thousand lives are the annual victims of these destroyers ? If the multitudes who were suffering and dying of these dreadful maladies during the last winter, were presented at one view before us, amidst all the accumulation of wretchedness, which bodily pain, aggravated by poverty and destitution, produces, the heart would grow sick, and we should eagerly desire to part with our substance, that we might procure relief from the agony of our own feel ings. But, because the destroyer works unseen in the hovels of the indigent because his victims, instead of being bla zoned in the public journals, are confined to the bills of mortality, the evil passes on with little observation its magnitude and pressure remain almost unknown no ade quate exertion is made to resist its progress, or mitigate its effects and the physician is not furnished with the oppor tunity of trying, on an extensive field, what medical research may do to alleviate suffering and to save life. This deficiency in medical science for the cure of Asthma and Consumption, is now happily filled up through the dis covery, by Dr. Lamert, of his celebrated Nervous Balsam, the true Balm of Life, and a complete Restorative of Nature, which has stood the test of upwards of sixty years' trial and those who have used it in the various disorders to which it is applicable particularly Asthma and Consump tion , have rarely found it fail in its intended effect Dr. L. therefore, confidently offers it as an efficacious remedy to those afflicted with the above lamentable disorders, convinced that one trial only will establish its decided efficacy. It is well known, that in pulmonary complaints, the most effectual remedy is a timely removal to warm climates but this remedy is very difficult even to the rich, and utterly un attainable by the labouring poor. The only substitute is the CORDIAL BALM of LIFE, which generally arrests the pro gress both of Consumption and Asthma in their incipient state, and greatly alleviates the systems of the latter, even when it appears in its most advanced stages. Those unhappy personal weaknesses which render life a burden, and sexual society intolerable, which are the bane of succeeding generations, not only in corporeal imbecility but in mental deprivation invariably yield to Dr. Lamert's superior and salutary mode of treatment. By a process peculiarly his own with the unwearied researches of a most laborious practice of sixty years he is enabled to remove the effects of cases long considered hopeless, and leave health and vigour where he found decay and despair. The above salubrious Cordial may be had of Mr. R. Allan son, at the General Medicine Warehouse, Scale-Lane, Hull, who will supply any Country Agents, if required, on liberal terms , in bottles at 4s. fid. and 10s. 6d. each tlie bottle at 10s. fid. contains three of those at 4s. 6d. or two 10s. fid. bottles in one for 20s. also a family bottle contain ing four at 10s. fid. for 33s., by purchasing which 9s. are saved, duty included. Be sure to ask for Dr. Lamert's Cordial Balm of Life, as lto other is genuine. ✓ FOGS AND VAMP AIR. B ARCLAY'S ASTHMATIC CANDY has, for many years, been proved an effectual preservative from the ill effects of the F gs and Damp Air, which, in the Winter Season, are so prevalent in this Climate. Its effects are, to expel Wind, to preserve the Stomach .rom the admission of Damps, and to relieve those who suffer from Difficulty of Breathing. Prepared only by Barclay and Sons, 95, Fleet-Market, London, and sold, by their appointment, by all respectable Stationers, Druggists, and Medicine Venders, in Boxes, at 2s! 9d. and Is. I'd. each, duty included. Observe-None can be genuine, unless the names of Barclay and Sons are on the Stamp affixed to each box. MISCELLANZOUS. The Murder at Oxford.-On Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock, the examination of witnesses into the conduct of the prisoner Williams, a young man who was for some time on the fatal evening, in company with the unfortunate de ceased, and to whom some circumstances of a suspicious clia racter attach, on the night of the murder of Ann Crotchley, was resumed before Mr. Hickson, the Mayor, and the other magistrates. The most decisive evidence was given that Williams had no stick or umbrella ' ' h either of which it is Conjectured, the wounds may bavjB cn given in his pos sesion, either when he left the fiBl A ms public-house, on that night, shortly previous to th r xime when Crotchley was found lying drunk in Blue Boar-lane, or at any period of the same night. Tlie Mayor and Magistrates retired after the entire of the evidence had been gone into, and after some con sultation with Mr. Roberson the Town Clerk as to the power of magistrates to admit to bail in a charge of felony of so serious a nature, the latter gentleman consulted Mr. Peel's acts, and advised the magistrates under all the circumstances of the case, to allow the prisoner to stand out till the period of the Sessions, on bail. The Mayor accordingly intimated to Williams that he would be discharged from custody upon liis entering into recognizances, and finding bail to answer any bill of indictment which might be preferred against him for felony and murder at the next General Quarter Sessions of the Peace for the City of Oxford, to be holden in the course of the ensuing month. The bail to be himself in £500, and two sufficient sureties in tlie sum of £250 each. The prisoner was then removed, the bail required not being at the time forthcoming. It is doubted whether the prisoner will be able to make out the required security, but as the time of trial ap proaches so nearly, only a temporary deprivation of liberty will be experienced by him. Tlie City of Oxford enjoys a privilege possessed by no other city within the British domi nions, with the exception perhaps of Bristol viz.-the power of trying at its Sessions of the Peace by its own legal head, the Recorder, felonies of the worst description, treason, mur der, c. Horrible Mitrdf.r.-The neighbourhood of Brisley, in this county Norfolk , was on Monday thrown into a state of consternation by a report of the body of a boy, named Wm. Moore,about 13 years of age, having been shockingly mangled, and under circumstances which immediately led to the con clusion that a murder of the most dreadful description had been committed. The most active steps were immediately taken to discover the perpetrator of the inhuman act. On Tuesday and Wednesday last, an inquest was held at the Bell Inn, Brisley, by F. T. Quarles, gentleman, coroner for the liberty of the duchy of Lancaster, on the body. It appeared that the deceased was found in a ploughed field, in the said parish, on the Monday morning, with his neck stabbed or cut in two or three places, and a bandage tied round so as to strangle him his body was ripped open from the breast to the lower part of the abdomen, and his entrails torn out his liver was torn in pieces, and part of it laid by his side The deceased lived with his cousin, Jacob Powley, of Litcham, cirdwainer, and was sent by him on a donkey, on Sunday morning, with a parcel to be left at Bintry, Royal Oak. A man named John Kenney overtook the boy on Brisley-green, from whence they proceeded together passing the Royal Oak at Bintry, Kenney told the deceased it was Twyford upon Inquiry he found himself at Foulsham, where he stated that Kenney had led him out cf the way he asked at Foulsham if that was Bintry, when he was told it was not, and was directed he way to the Royal Oak, where he had some re freshment, and corn for his donkey. While at the Oak, he stated that Kenney said he would murder him. The landlady asked him to stay all night, but he said No, I am not afraid. He left the Oak about three o'clock in the afternoon to return home, when he was soon overtaken by Kenney, who was seen lurking near the house during the boy's stay, when he fol lowed him through Billingford and Elmham, to a place called Etmham Hurdle, on the road leading towards Brisley, where they were seen together at five o'clock. The murder is sup posed to have been committed about six o'clock the same evening. Three witnesses deposed to their having heard screams at the time when, and apparently proceeding from the quarter where, the sanguinary deed-was afterwards disco vered to have been perpetrated. On Monday morning Kenney was apprehended on suspicion of being the murderer, as he was seen witth the deceased as before stated, from eleven till five in the evening of the same dny. After an examination oTfhe witnesses, the Jury returned a verdict of 11 jVilful murder against the said John Kenneywho was forthwith committed under the coroner's warrant to Norwich Castle, and was conveyed to that gaol by Mr. Johnson, keeper of Swaffham Bridewell.-Sorfolk Chronicle. Miseries of a Chancery Suit.-A very respectable man, whose name we are not disposed to mention, was brought into one of the watch-houses at Dublin, lately, in a state of extreme exhaustion and wretchedness, and having lingered for a short time, he breathed liis last. From some memo randums found in his picket, his name was ascertained, and it was discovered, on inquiry, that his family was most respectable, and that a property which he claimed as a right, was in controversy for some years in the Court of Chancery. An application was afterwards made in the proper quarter by his sister, who presented a miserable picture of penury and distress, for means to bury him, and the receiver in the cause was directed to dedicate a sum of ten pounds to that purpose. He, however, not being in funds from the estate, declined paying the sum required, but humanely advanced five pounds for the expenses of his interment. The matter would, in all probability, have remained a secret, were it not that a change was brought by the sister, who asserted that a portion of this money had been converted by the watchmen to their own use, in consequence of which an investigation took place, and the parties were completely exculpated. The misery of this poor creature's appearance defies description, yet, notwith standing, in her mode of expression she evinced education and gentility. The suit to which we allude lias been carrying on for some years, in the course of which period one of the parties as we have stated expired through mere want, in a common watch-house, and the wretched survivor remains an inmate of our city, without a meal to sustain, or a roof to shelter her. Awful Explosion of Gas.-Between eight and nine o'clock on Tuesday evening, the neighbourhood of Hatton-wall, London, was thrown into the utmost confusion and terror by a loud and terrific explosion, which forced the glass from the windows, and created the most serious fears in the minds of the inhabitants. In a few seconds it was ascertained that the report proceeded from the interior of the Prince of Orange wine-vaults, which in an instant was enveloped in utter darkness, and filled with a dense smoke. As soon as lights could be procured, the interior of the bar presented a scene of indescribable confusion, Mrs. Deighton, the landlady, being in a state of insensibility from the force of the shock, the windows and blinds shivered in splinters, the flooring raised several inches, and covered with fragments of broken decanters, bottles, and glasses. At this moment a young man ruslied up stairs from the cellar, in a state of partial suffoca tion, and begged some person would hasten to the assistance of the landlord of whose fate he was quite ignorant. Two or three individuals cautiously descended, and after some search found Mr. Deighton extended on the ground, which had been forced up around him, apparently lifeless. He was instantly taken up stairs, and medical assistance procured, and in a few seconds symptoms of retuming animation be came visible, he having fortunately received only a contusion in the forehead and a lacerated nose. His account of this extraordinary transaction is, that having some business in the ale cellar, he went down, accompanied by a friend the person who gave the alarm , and was examining an ale cask, when suddenly he felt the ground shake beneath his feet, and in an instant he was thrown across the cellar, and with the violence of the shock became deprived of all sense. His companion was twice knocked down in endeavouring to escape by the stairs, and has completely lost his hearing on one side. A person who was at the bar at the moment, received so severe a shock, that he still lies dangerously ill three clocks in the house were also instantly stopped by the violence of the concussion and a fire grate at some distance was forced from its setting. On examining the cellar, the ground was ascer tained to have been forcecF up several feet, full butts were forced from their stations, a portion of the wall thrown down, and a most foetid vapour pervaded the whole cellar but no immediate reason could be assigned for the accident, which was fortunately attended with no fatal consequences. The premises were on Monday inspected by the superintendent of the City Gas Works in Dorset-street, Salisbury-square, and in his opinion the accident could not have been caused by the gas of which there was no appearance of escape, and which acted as usual on being re-lighted. On tlie other hand, the cellar was in constant use, therefore no reason can exist for supposing it to have arisen from the evaporation of pent up vapours. A lighted candle had also been in the cellar nearly the whole of the afternoon. The shock was felt at a considerable distance. Roman Antiquities.-An interesting discovery was made last week, by Edmund Tyrell Artis, F.S.A. F.G.S. of a Ro man villa in the neighbourhood of Helpstone between Stamford and Peterborough , on a spot where even an anti quarian would not have anticipated any tiling of the kind. POLICE EXTRAORDINARY. On Tuesday week, Frederick Robinson was brought before the sitting Magistrates at Row.street, to answer to a charge of quitting his master's service without giving h m due warning. It apjjeared in evidence, that Robinson had, some months ago en gaged himself to drive the Sovereign strge-coach, but finding himself unable to manage the horses, and being also apprehensive of the issue of several complaints lodged against him at the next quarter sessions, for careless and unskilful driving he, the said Robinson did last Thursday se'nnight, just as the Sovereign w as to leave London, quit the service of his master, and set off to some relations he has in Bedfordshire since which time, every effort has been made to get him back to his work without success. The following examination will best explain the nature of the case Magistrate Well, Robinson, what have you to say to all this ? Robinson Please your Worship, I'll tell you the whole truth. I took the place because I likes to lie doing, and thought I could do very well but never having been usxl afore to work with leaders, vy the oases got the better o' me, and so I thought it best to be off, before any serious damage happened. Magistrate •. Have you been long in your master's service ? Robinson Yes, Sir, many years and in his Honour's, father s service too. Magistrate And did you never try to drive before? Robinson No, your Worship. I vas first of all book-keeper, and then I had to pay the men in the yard, and look after the orn hills, and all that and afterwards master set me up in the Checyuers, and a prosperous time l had o'nt there. Magistrate Ami then you tned to better yourself! Robinson Yes, Sur, that was it I thought driving would be good fer my health, of which 1 am particularly careful at all times. Magistrate Pray now, Robinson, speaking of health, didn't your dispute with your master arise about some allowance of spirits in bad weather. Robinson Why, I believe, f fed say, your Worship, that I thought he ought to make me an allowance of Hollands. Magistrate 1 thought you said you were careful of your health, and I am sure that w culd do you no good was that all you haggled about? Robinson I can't say as how it was, your Worship we don't somehow, live comfortable in the yard, and I'm all for a quiet life and I know'd about Christmas time, the coach would be loaded with turkey baskets, and I did'nt like such a cargo and so I said to Sly boots-Magistrate Who is Sly boots ? Robinson His name is George, only we calls him Sly-boots, for shortness. Magistrate What other name has he ? Robinson •. Tierney, your Worship and he and one Petty, which is a new sarvant, is always a quarrelling, and if Tierney speaks sharp to Petty, saving your Worship's presence, lie swears he'll take the broom to him and its not pleasant, by no means, living in that ere state offantigue. Magistrate Has Petty been long in the yard ? Rob nson Master hired him to stay at home and take care of the office when I took to driving he has been in sarvice afore, but they don't trust him to drive now, because when he did drive, he ris all the fares nearly double what they vas ven he first come to us. Magistrate Are you aware that your master has been put to con siderable inconvenience by your absenting yourself? Robinson I am sure I'm werey sorry to inconvenience any gem-man, your Worship but its better for me to go afore any wery bad accident happens 1 did recommend him a steady chap to take my place, and master sent for him, and offered to set him up in the Star and Garter, as well as let him drive, but lie would not handle the rib-bands, and so it all blowed over. Magistrate Why did you recommend that person without know ing w hether he would take the place ? Robinson I knew he had always been an uncommon good Rider, your Worship, so 1 thought he might like to drive but truth is, the team master has got don't draw well together, and so 1 told him. Magistrate Don't you think, Robinson, you had better go back to your place? Robinson Just as your Worship pleases one of my fellow-sarvants did go back after quitting. Magistrate Who is he? Robinson Old Nick, please your Worship, who drives the Bexley Van Magistrate Do you know lien Tinck ? Robinson I do, Sir a Dutch lad he be now in sarvice abroad. Magistrate D'ye think he would do for a coachman? Robinson He may, your Worship, for all I know some of liis family did drive once, but whether it were his father or liis mother, I can't rightly recollect. Magistrate That is, you don't recollect wliether it was a mail coachwoman, or a female coachman ? Robinson He, be, he-he, he. Magistrate Do you know' Ward ? Robinson Which Ward, your Worship ? Magistrate Jack Ward. Robinson •. Oh, the Dudley boy ? Yes, your Worship, and a sliarp clever lad he be. Magistrate Would he do to drive ? . Robinson I rather thinks as trow he wouWnt, your Worship he did belong to the Opposition, but when tliat concarn failed, lie corned over to the Crown to master. I believe he h s given warning, your Wot hip. His father has left him a lump of money, and he don't understand out of doors work much, and 1 believe he is a going as fust as he can. Magistrate Well now, Robinson, 1 have been consulting with Sir Richard here we don't wish to be hard upon you will you go back to you place till your master is suited ? Robinson I've no objection whatsumever, provided always, your Worship, that I am let to go before the sessions, w hich begins the 22d of next month. Magistrate Why, you are not afraid or ashamed of anything you have dene, Robinson? Robinson.- Both, and please your Worship I never meant wrong but things have all gone wrong, and the sooner I get to rest, the better pleased 1 shall be. Migistra'e But, if your master should not get a servant he can trust? Robinson Why then, Sir, master must get a coach as will go by steam it would be the making of'Squire Lambton, your Worship and as for hot water, the Opposition will keep 'um in that. Magistrate Robinson, you are a wag. Robinson Your Worship is the first gemman as ever was pleased to say so. Magistrate Well, will you go back for the present ? Robinson Why, Sir, it's of no use, for I can't neither drive nor lead without, fear of accident but if you pleases to speak to master, I have no objection to stay over Christmas with him but I won't go and be badgered up at the sessions. Magistrate Go your way then, Robinson, and we'll see what can be done for you. Robinson Good morning, your Worship, and thank you. Robinson left the office, and we believe has arranged to remain in his present place, for a few days, till his master is suited.-John Bull. Curious Casf. Tub Quicksilver Institute.' -Court of Requests, Greenwich.-This was a proceeding before the Commissioners of the Court of Conscience, in which the plaintiff, the Rev. J. J. G. Fischer the founder of the Quicksilver Institute at Greenwich, sought to recover from Ash Abrahams, Esq. the Treasurer to the Establishment, the sum of £1 Os. 5d. for quicksilver supplied by him, and consumed by the gentlemen forming the Committee of the Insti tute. The plaintiff stated, that he was the founder of a new Society, which .was called the Quicksilver Institute, planned on the prin ciples of the British and Fureiyn Bible Society. On the 7 th Sept, last lie met several respectable gentleman of Greenwich at the Ureyhoruid Inn, who offered to join and assist him in liis Quicksilver Medical plan, and formed themselves instantly into a regular society, called the Quicksilver Institute,'' and a Chairman, Deputy, Secretary, and liis Deputy, were chosen, and the Committee resolved that from 50 to 100 lbs. weight be bought, chosen, and proved to be genuine by him, to distribute gratis to whoever should like to take it, and particularly fer the members of the Institute, and to make sufficient experiments and experience of what was said and printed of this mineral, the innume. rable virtues it possessed, and its fitness to be introduced all over the worl 1 It was also arranged tliat the Institute should take a house for a dispensary. In consequence of this, he ordered successively five pounds weight of quicksilver for the use of the Society, and the bill was sent in to the Quicksilver Institute, and was the Society's pro perty. On the 21st of September he found it necessary to dissolve the institute, owing to the misconduct of its members. Since the breaking up of the Institution, he had been applied to by the chemist of whom he had purchased tlie quicksilver for payment, but he re fuse d, on the ground that it bad been bought for the use of the Insti tute and by its order, and therefore ought to be paid for out of the funds of tlie society by Mr. Ash Abrahams, the Honorary Secretary. Five pounds weight of quicksilver was used altogether, by Mr. Ash Abrahams, Mr. Monk, Mr. Cole, and Mr. Ben. Smith, all of whom swallowed a part of the mercury! Mr. Ash Abrahams, in answer to the complaint, said that he was inihchabit of going to the Greyhound tavern to spend the evening witlrsome friends, ami Mr. Fischer for several nights bothered them about his discovery in quicksilver, and lie frequently brought 4 orae with him, and prevailed upon several gentlemen to swallow tome, and he amongst the rest took a piece the size of a pea, for which he paid him six pence, as also did others. It was true they did talk of forming a Society, and he was appointed Honorary Secretary, but he assured the Commissioners that it was all a joke from beginnirigtoend. Mr. Fischer, said tlie quicksilver was always tafcen at the society, and one night in particular Mr. B. Smith brought in the statue of Mercury, and placed it upon the table, saying he should make itapresent to tlie Society, until they had accumulated funds sufficient to have a marble one made. The Gentlemen then all drank some quicksilver to the-health of Mercury, and tlie bottle was returned to me full of filthy water, and they then broke up the meeting, and refused to pay me for the quicksilver they had con sumed. Mr. Barker, the Solicitor to the Commissioners, said, Mr. Abrahams, you say you took a portion of the quicksilver, pray may I ask wlrnt effect it had upon you ! Mr.' Abrahfjn -0h, wonderful Sir, I had a crick in the neck for some time, and it removed it imme diately. Mr. Ben. Smith deposed, that Mr. Fischer had for a long time annoyed them about this universal medicine, and assured them it was even good for horses. Some person in the Court called out yes, and for asses too. A loud laugh. Mr. Smith continued-It had been only a piece of fun from tlie commencement, and whatever had been taken. Mr. Fischer had been handsomely paid for. He must have been aware that it was a burlesque. Mr. Fischer, with great warmth, said he had no idea of 'such a thing Mr. Knox, another of the mem bers, was now called. Mr. Fiscfier-Mr. Knox is not a fit man for a witness, because he is ofie of the party, and he told me I did not know the Greek Alphabet. Incessant laughter Mr. Knox stated that the whole w as a complete joke from beginning to end, and Ik-told Mr. Fischer so Tlie plaintiff was then nonsuited. First Appfarante on a London Stage-From Snatches of Oblivion J- At length tlie day. big with tlie fiite of my future fame or obscurity, was ushered in. Tlie church clock at length chimed six. the hour at which 1 should have entered the theatre n condemned malefactor could not have listened with more mute horror to his death-knell than that which pervaded meat tlie moment. My , high-flown expectations at once deserted me, and I would have given up all the little I had 'in possession or expectancy' of the worlds goods to have freed myself from the trial I was about to undergo -Throwing m self, how ever, into a hackney-coach, which was waiting at the door, I ordered the driver to carry me to the theatre. It seemed scarcely a moment since l quitted my own dark little chamber, before I found myself transported info a brilliantly-lighted dressing room, which had Ijeen prepared expressly for my reception. Mirrors from the ceiling to the floor, perfumed wax emitting a brilliant and flattering light, representing a fairy scene to my tewildered eyes, w bile the half dozen attendants, who were employed in decorating my tf-rson, seemed like so many silent spirits to assist tte delusion.-When the operation of dressing was concluded, I entered the green room, and endeavoured to throw an air of carelessness over my manners, which the most inexperienced could have detected w s assumed. Twas a vain attempt-1 was the object of attention of every person present-every eye was directed to me Equally vain were my endeavours to converse familiarly with my friends, they ail seemed trying to give me encouragement, ofw'hich I must have pnlp-ably stood in need. The business of tlie stage commenced, performer after performer quilted the room-how l envied the perfect nonchalance with which they received the call, and how l trembled at the verv expectation of tearing my own name uttered, which 1 knew a very few minutes would accomplish. 1 repeated fifty times to myself the first words. I impressed on my mind tlie peculiar emphasis and gesture I should make use of, till the call-boy gave the notice that ' my moment was come.' I was conducted to the side-scenes by my friends, one of whom slapped me on the shoulder. 1 needed some thing to rouse me, every spark of self-possession had tied .- suddenly -making a desperate effort, l rusted forward, but suddenly drew back, as if 1 was entering the portal of an enchanted palace 'foolish,' ex claimed some voice, not 'loud, but deep ' it w r as my friend the manager, who immediately pushed me, as it were, on the stage -Before I was well aware of my situation, 1 was fairly in the front of the house, the solitary unit, for I know' not how many thousand pair of eyes to gaze at. What was my horror at that moment! A.i audible buzz went through the house, and an awful stillness sur. ceeded. Oh! awful to me beyond language! The glare of light prevented me from looking up and when I did, l saw my brethren on the stage eyeing me with most inquisitive vigilance how poor at that moment appeared to me the fame, the riches of the world, in comparison with their self possession and consummate coolness. A film seemed to float before my eyes-1 felt as if l was reeling an hysterical affection swelled my throat, not a word could I utter. My pitiable situation at once aroused the feelings of a genuine English audience they saw the emotions under which 1 was labouring, the stillness was broken, and an animating round of applause tilled the house. In the midst of this tumult I felt the energy of niy mind return. Lifting my eyes from the boards, to which they had been till then rivetted, I looked around, and seeing none but encouraging faces, the spirit of hope entered my veins-every faculty was sharpened -and when the applause had subsided, I delivered tte few lines I had to repeat w ith as much effect as I did the day preceding before a looking-glass. I wa3 not long left in doubt of the nature of my re ception. As the lerformance proceeded, the house was occasionally shaken with acclamations. The stage, which seemed at first to me the field of alarm and dismay, now was the arena of triumph, and I trod it with the feelings of a victorious hero. My death-scene was the proudest hour of my life, for it was there that the general enthu siasm discovered itself, and I was carried from the stage thoroughly intoxicated with my complete success. Yet still the cup of my hap piness was to be crowned with a more sparkling brim. After the play a general call resounded for my appearance. I entered again on the stage but how different were my feelings! The audience rose-tte house reverberated with applause-hats and handkerchiefs were waved, and my name sent up, as it were, by a thousand voices to the skies. The play was given out, and I rushed from the stage revelling in all tte delirium of a highly-excited imagination. Origin op tiik Bebp-Strak Club.-Whilst Rich was employed in planning a pantomime, his atelier, a small room in tte theatre, was almost as much frequented as Canova's or Thorw aldscn's in our days. Every one seemed to be anxious to see him at his interesting labours. Amongst these were several men of rank and wit for Rich's colloquial oddities were much relished. The celebrated Lord Retei -borough, then somew'hat advanced in years, Hogarth, Sir James Thornhill, c. c. were of the number. At these visits he never in termitted his labours, noi his strain of facetious remark. Upon one occasion, accident having detained the Earl's coach later than usual, he found Rich's chit-chat so agreeable, that he was quite unconscious that it was two in the afternoon when he observed the man of j an-tomime spreading a cloth, then coaxing his fire into a clear culinary flame, and proceeding with gravity to cook his own beef steak on his own gridiron. The steak sent up a most inviting incense, and my Lord Could not resist Rich's invitation to partake of it. A further supply was sent for and a bottle or two of wiue from a neighbouring tavern, prolonged their discourse to a late hour. But so delighted was the old peer with his entertainment, that, on going away, he proposed renewing it at the same place and hour on tlie Saturday following. He was punctual to liis engagement, and brought wiih with him three or fourfriends, men of wit and pleasure about town,'' as Mr. Bayes would call them and so truly festive was the meeting, tliat. it was pro osed that a Saturday's club should be held there, whilst the town remained full. A sumptuary law, even at this early period of the society, restricted the bill of fare to beef-steaks, and the beverage to port wine and punch. Thus the corner-stone of the Sub lime Society was laid.-The Clubs of London. CHRISTMAS THEATRICALS. Dri'RY-Lane.-On Wednesday, the new pantomime made its appearance under the title of Harlequin and Cock Robin. or the Babes in the IVcod.-It was an excellent burlesque upon that popular story, and it was the occa sion of a good deal of laughter. The two babes doated on by their parents were such bandy-legged disagreeable urchins, that it really was quite asto nishing how the cock-robins could trouble themselves to cover tnem with leaves, unless to get rid of so unpleasant a sight in the wood as their dis torted dead bodies. The crformanccs of the gigantic birds who discharged this pious office were also very ridiculous, and they hopped about the stage to the infinite delight of the younger part ofthe audience. The undertakers of the murder were a butcher and a carpenter, who had been bribed by the wicked uncle. It should be noticed some fearful sm ernatural acency is employed for the instigation of the murder, in which the genii of Gloom and Destruction figure very prominently. The transformations take place in the sixth scene, the Elysium of Innocence when Sir Roland, the cruel uncle Mr. Barnes , is changed into Pantaloon the butcher Mr. Southby and a female innkeeper Mr. Lusher , into Clowns Walter, the carpenter • Mr. Howell , into Harlequin and Deborah Rose,an innkecix-r's daughter, into Columbine. Here, in fact, the pantomime commences-the first part or introduction being a sort of ludicrous drama. Some of Stanfield's views are beautifully painted and we may notice, especially, Portsmouth wit-h shipping in a gale, and Old London Bridge, in 15U J-very different subjects, but executed in a stvle of art peculiarly his own. The more gorgeous and ingenious scones by Marinari and Andrews, in their wav, were also of the best description. Some good-humoured satire and touches at the times aie introduced in the course of lhe performance, which met with general appro bation. Two jokes of this kind were highly relished by the audience in one of them a poor Italian image-bearer is introduced with a naked Cupid he is discovered, and denounced by certain members of the society for the suppression ot vice, but he contrives to satisfy their moral scruples by cheating an old Jew clothosman so far out of nature out of an old air of breeches and a waistcoat with which he clothes the truant of Venus. -The other is a well-merited ridicule ofthe present fashions among ladies of wearing bonnets of a most prejMSternus and unbecoming sire, and among men of wearing enonnous whiskers and smoking cigars. Some of the tricks and changes were rapid and surprising, even to those who all their lives have been pantomime hunters. Coybnt-Gabde.n.-The fable, if we may so call it, ofthe new pantomime at this house, is founded on the first ofthe seven legends of Number Sip. We cannot venture to rank this pantomime among the best of ita penns, although we have certainly seen worse. For the success it met with it is principally indebted to Parsloe, whose agility and contortions rendered him a most efficient representative of a goblin who is a very Proteus in Lis way. In the zoological garden by far the most amusing scene of the piece the animals escape, and here, in the shape ofa runaway monkev, lie appears to great advantage. A most magnificent peacock, on a grand scale, and a camcleopard, also gave great satisfaction on this occasion. 'Ihe moving panorama is a beautiful thing of its kind, and the conflict, we are happy to say, was well carried on by means of kettle-drums vice gunpowder. The tricks are few in number, nor have they any claim to originality most of them, indeed, such as the bear's grease producing extempore moustochios, the skaiting, Harlequin's coach, steam-hoat, Arc. are very old acquaintances. It boasts, however, some very pretty scene's, especially the early ones, though that of tendon from the new Coliseum, on which the artist seems to have particularly calculated, is a failure. I he applauses, comparatively faint during the progress, were general at the conclusion of the piece. LONDON POLICE. Mansion-House.-On Monday week, a young woman, of very interesting appearance, applied to Alderman Farcbrotber, who sat for the terd Mayor, under the following circumstances -She had been, she said, a'oout ten years ago, when she was no more than ll? years of age, prevailed u on l y her mother, who was fascinated by the Methodists, to marry a minister from amongst them, although a gentleman, who is high in the law in the Welsh districts, had been paying his addresses to her at the time. Af cv three years of great unhappiness, her husband atandoned her, and h r mother, who, notwithstanding the misconduct ofthe minister, lost none of her attachment to the sect of which he pretended to be the ornament, married one of the persons who are we believe she said called Ranters, and soon found u ' his religion had been put on to enable him to deceive with the more u wterity. Her mother did not long survive the marriage, and then the cloven foot immediately apj eared to the unfortunate appli cant and her sisters for their step-fat her contrived to get hold ofevtry farthing of property to which they were entitled, amounting to several hundreds each, and refused to give them the slightest assistance or relief-Under these melancholy circumstances, the young woman came to tendon, and succeeded in procuring a situation as ladies'maid, in them ighbourhood of Brunswick-square, where she resided two years. Her former lover, however, found out the place of her abode, and persecuted her until he prevailed upon her to leave her honest employment and live with him as liis wife. For the space of two years she was his constant companion, some times residing with him at the Temple, and sometimes at Brighton. At length he also abandoned her and, left desolate, without father, mother money, or friends, she had no means of saving herself from starvation ex cept that to which she submitted in her extremity-prostitution She had frequently written to the gentleman who had seduced her from the lift f industry which she had chosen, but in vain lie never took notice of h r misery. He had been but very lately married, and she would not. on anv account, disturb the happiness of the family to which he was united f ... would, however, disclose his name, and other particulars relating to him he superintendent of the Magdalen Asylum, or of the Female Pcniten-i' f ' v , nch f he V peJ oobt A' n an introduction from the worthy magistrate whom she addressed. Her condition was wretched in wax driven by the most desperate necessity into habits w hall she detested, and all she asked for was an opportunity and a place for IS Th 0, The unfortunate female said, in conclusion, that u'v n the ! h ,' r J!w t £ me 2 t ' c r re eady to stand or fa!I - There w. s noti ng connected with her deplorable fortune which she would not detail to the principal of any charitable establishment where, bv honest indiMn. be nugnt oc enabled to pass her days away from the horrors to whk h l.e I ad bo n exposed. Ihe applicant's countenance is full of care, and . te h many ot the symptoms of consumption about her but a little hum nity may do a great deal. She was lupplud with adequate means of suptx t bv the direction ot the alderman, until the intentions ol the governor? o. the remalc ' cni'entiary shall have been made known. it h HIM j ! 1 i iU i f ill m
the examiner. mn The last shew of 'Independence has vanished from Italy in the annihilation of Hie Papal power, which has fallen with hardly the notice of a newspaper. So different is modern from ancient Rome, which Willi heaviest social, a giant statue fell aiid so much worse is tire corruption of a good reli gion than the philosophical use of a bad one.-As to Sicily, the last retreat of the Beurboa Monarchy, it can hardly be preserved, when our resources arc so distracted and divided, from the ambition of such a jnan. as Mo ra t. In short, throughout the whole Continent, only one Government appears to have become sensible of the necessity of it's own- reformation and that, the age may lose nothing of it's novelty, this Government is Turkey. Mcstapha Bairactar, undaunted at the fate of Sultan Selim, who lost his life in attempting reform, has had the boldness hot only to disband the Turkish Pretorian bands, the Janissaries, hut to aim a direct blow at the Mussulman superstition by declar ing that difference of faith has nothing to do with •good soldiership. In consequence of these enlighten ed measures the downfall of Turkey may yet be de-'layed or at any fate may deserve pity. Bairactar 'lias an excellent opportunity just now, during the em ployment of Bonaparte in Spain, to pursue his vigo rous designs and it is Hot the Emperor's policy to quarrel jvitli such men, however it may be his passion to conquer them. He may easily indeed get over his pretended scruples about attacking a State not entirely •corrupt, either by involving Russia in a war with Turkey as he has involved her with Sweden, or by exciting the Greeks to revolt, as they may certainly ido with the utmost justice. The Seven Islands are already his vassals, and the Greeks are a shrewd en terprising people, with something of their ancient •soul about them in their very slavery. God grant that the continued, the unchanging proofs of the wretched effects of corruption, may teach us all to philosophise a little better in politics and that an Englishman may not have the shame of recording another such a year as 1808. 03-FOREIGK INTELLIGENCE. SWEDEN. SlocsnoLM, Dec. 5.-The following Report has been received from Gen. Klercker, Commander in Chief of the Northern Finnish Army -My last Report was on the 10th of November, and was dispatched from Brahestad by Capt. Kuhefelt. Your Majesty's army under ray command has since retreated to Pyhojocki and Yppiri, where the Russians made an attack on our rear, turned the left flank near Merrijarive, advanced against Peliskaski to take the array it the rear, anil thus compelled the army to fall back to Pntjocki, and on the 17th a position near Svkajocki, Ru-volat, and Palsola, visas, occupied by oat troops but in conseqsem e of the enemy's corps having been reinforced t 20,000 men,' furnished with fit pieces of fttSavy ordnuucr and yoitT Msyesty'sarmy having been reduced to '000 mc ' by losses in the field and sickness, it became impossible to maintain our position, and I thought it advisable to open again a negotiation for an Armistice, the result of which was the Convention which I hereby have the honour to lay at your Majesty's feet. C. N. Keercker, Gen. in Chief of the Northern Finnish Army, Memiergt A'cin 24, 1808i CONVENTION BETWEEN THE ROV.4L FINNISH AltMV IN NORTH FIN-LAND, AND THE IMPERIAL RUSSIAN ARMi By virtue of the powers'Tested in us, we, the under signed, have agreed and stipulated the following ar ticles -' 1. The Royal Swedish Army is, immediately after thd notification of this Convention,To take up a position along the frontiers of the district of Uleaborg, from Kernito Porkawara. Kcrni, in consequence, remains in the hands of the Russians. 2. The Swedish Army is to evacuate the town of Ulea borg within ten days next ensuiug the date of this Conven tion, and the Russian troops are to take possession of tire said town on the 30th of November. The other parts of the country which are to be given up to the Russians, shall be evacuated according to the agreement yet to be cub. eluded between the ContractingvParties. 3. The rear of the Swedisli Army shall retreat by the route agreed upon, and whatever cannot be removed by the Swedish troops in their retreat, shall be consideredai a good and lawful prize. 4. The Swedish Army binds itself neither to destroy, distribute among the inhabitants, nor sell the magazines which they shall be necessitated to surrender. 5. The Swedish troops are not to take them from Ulea borg, or other places to be surrendered, auy Civil Ofiicers, nor any articles or goods belonging to the provinces. 6. The Swedish Army ,is to send back till Civil Officers, and inhabitants of tlie places evacuated by their troops, provided it be done by tlie desire or with the consent of th said persons. 7. This Convention shall be ratified by tire res iective Generals in Chief of both armies, and. the ratifications ex changed to-morrow night. Baron Aldercrotz, Maj. flen. Count'Kame.nski, Eicut. Gen. Olkjoctci, 7-18th Nov. 1S08. Ratified 8-20 Nov. 1S08. Count Buxhoevden,. General in Chief of tho Impe rial Russian Army, proposed additional articles of the Convention, concluded between the Royal Swedish Army in North Finland, and the Imperial Russian Army. Art. 1. The Armistice concluded between the two ar mies is to continue one month next ensuing the lay oh. Which the Swedish Army crosses the district of the fron tiers of Uleaborg, or until the 12th of January, 1809, and notice of the cessation of the Armistice shall be given at least 15 days before hostilities are recommenced. Art. 2. During the Armistice, the Imperial RutsiM troops are not to cross the river Kerni. C. N. KoHncKER, General of Infantry and Geo. in Chief of the Royal Swedish Army in Finland, Head-quarters, Linnugo, Nov. 20. Genera i.,-I have the honour to inform you, that the Convention, which was yesterday coflcluded, has been ratified by his Excellency General Count Buxlioevden, and I shall now trasmit it to Coupt Potemkin, in order that the exchange of the ratification oiay be effected. Wi
,26 THE EXAMINER The Commander in Chies had an interview with his Majestt yesterday at Windsor, on Military bu siness, The papers, containing the opinions of the Members qf the Court of Inquiry, were laid before his Majestic, whose pleasure will be made Jtnown in a few days, • No., as, . The Belvidera of Mrs.Beaumoht on hcrfrst appearance in London.-It's superiority in general truth to that qf Miss Smith and of Mrs. H. Siddons.-Decla mation and passion.--The chief beauty of stage mad ness.-A ride to discover the better judgment of the audience. COrENT OAKOBN CO.MP.JNr, , jrVJTJHET. Mrs. Beaumont, from the Glasgow'Theatre, made her first appearance in London last Thursday evening as Belvidera in Venice Preserved. She is the sister of Mrs. Mr die, 1 and sotaewbat resembles her relation in the cast of countenance and in the lower tones of her yoice, particularly in fn unpleasant drag on the sylla bles ir and ur kit her face is at .the same time more intelligent, her voice of more compass, her general appearance much more youthful, and her powers alto gether infinitely inore reputable. Belvidera is an ar duous character her sense is' masculine, her sensi-■ Vdity truly feminine so that an actress of mere Me diocrity is in continual danger of rendering the part too declamatory on the one hand or sinking it into a whin-ning feebleness on the other and even a superior per former, unless she possesses as much judgment as ge nius, sviU occasionally lean too much to one particular passiou Miss Smith for instance, who lately adorned this company, gave too' matronly a dignity to Belvi-dcrai Mrs. Henry Smocks, who cannot assume a pas sion decidedly vehement, renders it too generally plain tive and i havefio hesitation in saying, that the new actress, without the fine tragic countenance of the one or the truly feminine expression of the other, excels both of these ladies in a natural combination of pathos and piusLoji, of the yielding and the. commanding qua lities of Belvidera, of a heart full of sound tdtiiug and a bead full of sound sense. There is very little decla mation in Oiwj.y upon any occasion, hut Mrs. Beau mont undoubtedly failed most when she had more to argue than to feel, a deficiency which detracts less from her real genius than any other fault in tragic act ing, sino pity and terror are the great objects of tra gic genius 'whether of the poet or the performer, aud it is a • ood critical law by which you- may detect much of the fine nothings of the stage, that an actor, compai ively speaking, of little genius, will convert passion into very good declamation, while a great ge nius will turif declamation itself into sr thousand feel ings. The talent however is, I confess, as rare as it is sublime, and no performer on the present stage can exhibit it, but Mrs. Siddons. Madness, which is al ways the touchstone of a tragic performer, since it brings out all the finer passions at once, gave Mrs. Beaumont an opportunity of shewing at once all the powers of 'her fancy and her face, arid if in the latte' she was not exactly that beauty of delirious seduction Which Otwa y paints with his usual tinge of pruriencj she neverthelesVpassed with very excellent expression from indifference to feeling,, Trom, feeling -to xtroco-passion, and from- arfrong passion to an exhausted one When she describe4 however the imaginary horrors of the weather, she ought to havp painted them more ' with her action, as in covering her head for instance with a petty carefulness when she fancied, the ram. These little actions, done occasionally with a minute and overstrained sobriety of demeanour, are the finest contrasts of insanity. In short, there was. much ex cellent performance aud still greater promise ia. Mrs. BesuMont's first appearance, and she is certain! 31 a considerable acquisition to this company in the absence of Miss Smith, for wSfjh all lire illustrious talents of otsr great Melpomene, sbe is realty becoming too old for any thing amatory and too large for any thing youthful. Mrs. BeaumoYt is earnestly advised to forget all that occasional tendency to rani, which is sometimes so necessary to a country audience but which she lias too. much good sense trvproserve in town , and she cannot lay down a better rule for booking the real judgment • of the audience than to mistrust the applause which sometimes comes down in thunder from the Gods. The .ancient orator, when he was interrupted in the middle of his speech bya shout of applause from the mob, turned round to his friends to know what he had said-to expose himself. It is in a theatre as in a state the freedom of feeling and expression is to he found in the middle class the boxes repress them selves from a notion of polite reserve, and the gal leries like nothing but what is as noisy arid, vulgar as. themselves. The honest troth KesIn the pif. P • • U AN ATTEMPT TO SHEW THE FOLLY AND DA .HER OF -METHODISM. .IN A SERIES OF ESSAYS. ESSAY tjie VJlth and Last.--On the Prevention of Methodism Nobody denies that the Church has it's corruptions bat it does not follow that Methodism will cure them, if the Churi'h fins become too worldly minded, Me thodism is not less so because it ia less exposed. Look, for insiance into the intrigues of tfctjr societies.-D tlie Church is too lax in what is called the real faith, Methodism on the other hand is toojrigicL Examine for instance whether it is worth while to insist on all the articles which tlie Godly accuse ris of neglecting! Many of the Church's divisions arise from the inflexi bility of points which are not essential to virtue. 'U the Elect reconcile these points by rendering them still more inflexible ? Most of the Church's corruptions 'arise from it's connexion with the state, with the great and the rich, in short, with the world. Mull the Godly be less corruptible when they are abroad in th e same-temptations? Will a father who is one of the saints be less anxious to use interest for his own son in prejudice to Clergymen better qualified ? Will their THEATRICAL EXAMINER
'• iv f' Tol, II, S AT V R D A Ty , ■'f Adverufimtnts for this Paper which is at prefmt circulated by Poll to all the n Wjlilhire, Dorfetfhire and ail South Wales, and is extending it elf farther evtf ' throughout England, or they may be fent, under Cover to Mr.. Thomas Pyne, Pal1 according to Order,, at the lowefl Prices, 'to prevent Miftahes, all Adve£tis N. B. Our Dates are according to gh t the 14th, 1744 hr-No 34. trabif 'Towns North and South, from Liverpool to Plymouth throughout Teek' fare takeh in by the Deputy Pojl-Maflers on all the Crofs Roads ter n. Briftol direfiiy to the Author, who will take Care to infert them, y'eAeftred to-give DireSliens in Writing how long they are to be continued. li Stile or Engllfli Computation. MON D... AY's POST. 'fifPfi 3y 1 W On Friday loft arrived a Mail fnotn Holland. r u s s r 4. Fetershurgh, March 5. A large populous well .for-. tified City, founded by Peter the Great in 1703, from whom it takes its Name, and carried on with that I Rapidity,in Spite of almoft invincible natural Objlaties, SsHisat in one Yea s Time it conftfled of more than 30000 -Houfes, and How of above double that Number. It funds at -the Bottom of the Finnick Gttlph, is the Seat of the Court and publick Offices, and at prefent even vies with Mojcow, the' Metropolis, for Grandeur and Magnificence. O R D Tyrawley, who lately arrived here, is exceedingly well received. He contejgtfaily with the MinnSrs, and, 'tis thought, will fpaediiy carry h.s Point. Tljpi r Engliih . Merthants who. trade thro' this Country to Perfaa have f_Qrd yrs _for twice the I-aht ty of Goods PpfiMJfc iPfthtey'fenr lift Year.'-'. T'-.A V tl Mitrepo of Piedmont nd .Seat of the D f Turin, March It Im11 of Sardinia. The French. and Spanilh Squ IrdS te ivid i ihe firft are in Alicanf Road, and i Ports in Spain, fro whence ftheihuy -jpvver.bc. ■of them- Cam ' -TU- -li frincip tUti • f now King ■' iyid ti jlie fo ruinous a Condition thA fever ablAto put to Sea again, and no P 'R n - ' J ... . w ... .. A r , March, 13. TheMciyblisofthc. CiMf tf, Nice, part of Piedmont, landing on'--the Ba is Mediterranean, at the Mouth of'.be~ River. Vai-tCJ . Yeftcrday we heard the firing f Cannon, at Ancira ff which made People cqnclude tlatjQon .Philip was arrived there. The French and S tniards are allnmF®' between_Frcjus and Cannes.4-, jn tare n jjhg -life. Mr. Trevor Mini Her Plenipotentiary from, the King, of Gieat' Britain, received an Exprefs from London, whichhe immediately'yfifpatche.d for ■ Germany. ''Its faid that- this Courier is going to Drefden, Berlin, and Petersbn'rgh, to demand of thole Courts the Contingents which they are obliged to furnilh to his Britnnnick Ma-jetty in the prefent Conjuncture, and this Day he pre sented the following Memorial to the States General, your . Warfaw, Match 17. Capital of the Palatinate of Nhajfovia, and Metropolis of tlpt whole Kingdom, the Center of the Polifh Dominions, and the ufual Seat of their Kings, Diets and Courts of Judi.atsa c J The Report of Count Poniajpwski's Death was only fprea'd to give him fci Opportunity ol retreating to a Place of Security 'till he lhould obtain the King's Pardon. Count Tarlo's Relations, however, are preparing r 0 revenge his Death, which, unleli the King's Arrival prevents it, is likely tooccafion new-Troubles. G E R M ANY. Vienna, March 21. The Metropolis of the Circle of ceflary Difpofitions to at temp'tie #i'fcgc'TTthe'V n i and to befiege this Place. Tofrs aMjaffeady.arrived Antibes feveral Tranfports froth thc'C ft of Prbveucc. . ' FRAN C . ! ' • '• v' From the Camp at Cannes its Provence?- Marches S. Every Thing is ready foj throwing tvito'Bridgis over the River Varn, which the Army malt'pa jn ordejpio form a Line of Battle mpon the. M6tjntam at the fame Time two Bodies ivntaflon the 4'idTbf Ap rem °h t , to diflodge a thoufand Men.which the,,King.qr Sardinia has potted thiere. It is believed artqtbt ■ -Cor ifc il 1 paC-over porting them. Befides there are 4 EnglMh Ships cruizing between Antibes and Villa Frarca , that Yeiierdav fir'd feveral Cannon at us as we puil.-d ileng, which has o biiged our General to raile 4 Bateries in order to force them to retire, Paris, March 30. The Metropolis of all France, and Seat of their Kings and Parlias-.ents W Count Saxe is, at lafi, .crc-ifcd a Marfhal f Fiance, and is to be employed in planders. M. Ri J iir, one 01 our mod eelcbrated'Engravc.rf, is a£tur Hy engrasing the Pnflures of ttie Pretcndei's two Sons, from the Originals none at Rome, by the ableil Mailers Several Thoufands of ti •'Prints are to be ddtribu.ed in England, Scotland the C iL-en ofMunulrc. • Ti.e Courier which Prince LobreOwitz difpa.ched to give the Queen an Account of the Retreat of the Spa niards into the Kingdom of Naples, and to require fur -.Hioh and Mighty Lords, HF. Ns upon the firft Notice of the Hoftiiitfes which France was meditating againft the King . my Mafer, I had the Honour to demand or igh'-Mightinefles a part of the Succour due to his ■ jhy.the Treaties 5 your High Mightineifes com-d, fplitcl with diarRcquifition'wItn fo much Cordiality and rReadinela. haynigbeen pleafed to give, at the fame Time, ' ypu Refid,i wti.'.bf the 2d of laft Month, AlTurances fe all the Afllthnse'''which the common Intereft and the hliyatto'ns of the Treaties might require,-and which fee' fn' your power, that it wduld be doiBg your thlMightineffes an Injuft ice not terdepend, in the pre-iwu te jijutigabf v,Affiits,'upon receiving an- Anfwer e-quawi ad 'ana favourable to the Dem ml whidhl have # at pirefest. Matter, who, by the open War, which Fraficft'fi ft idccldred'againll him, has a-Right to' ' pWriiti j TOjfe n the! Equity and Wifdom ol your tl iehiMiawfeeffic, the entire .Efffcft of the Engaeomen rs 'penite the twd-.Nations amfwhich con e-jo require . . i.eat .of ti.~ ■ -s-Year 1678, confifti,,g of 20 Men oi Varwell mannV. ar.d provided, to be joined with di Expedition to tiie Fleet which his M. jeft is tilTemblir.g in the Channel. At the iamc l ime that 1 e King expeds this new proof of the goodFnithVndFriendlhipof yourHighMigh- ' tineffes, his iVlajelty commands me to exprefs to you his entire .Satisf.idion in, and an Acknowledgement jf tha which he hts i'o lately received, nnd 10 aftuieyour High MightiuolTes of he exadeft Return on liis part,in fo criti cal a l_or.jundurc,wh'ere the Hearts and Hands of the two Nations ought to be united as thJfce of one People. It is, High and Mighty Lords, this real and elFedivC Union, that, next to the Bleffing of'the Almighty, which the Juilnefs of his Majefty's Arms gives the great-eft Reafon to hope for is the ftrongell and fecurelt Bar rier that we can oppefe gair.ft sv-ry Enemy to the profperity, the Liberty, and Independency of our refpec-tive Countries. Done at the llagut this 14th Day of Apr , Signed, which ftitote -1 V k T fiobeirt Trevor. O N D O N, April 7. Auftria and all Germane i. and, at pre ent, the Seat of and Lcland. - - - 1 LOW-COUNTRIES. Of end, March 28. si fine Sea Port Town in the Ear Idem of Flanders, belonging 1 the fifteen of Kters-■ ! gary ther Inftruftions, is~fent badv° tidy. Twenty two Tranlpcrts with oo Hcrfe and a Quan-Ratiibon, March Zl. A free Imperial City of F r-ity of Recruits arrived here from England the 4th Inll. varia, and ufual Seat of the general Diets of the Em-, under the Convoy of two Man of War, and this Day pire. _ thePacket Bo.u hroug'nt over feveral Lords, and other Yellcrday a Conwy with Eight Field Pieces, and fe- Officers of iTrtindion. The Crews belonging to the veral Waggons laden with Ammunition came near this Ships that were leized at Dunkirk, aie difeharged and Place, but the Captain demanding a P lfigc thro'this 50 of them ate arrived a Nicuport , in order to im-City,' was refufed and oblig'd to pals thro' Stadt-am- bark for England. . J His Pruffian Majefty has dec'ared, that tDe Troops hofff- ,, ,, , r , r . I , U . a F' A ? r,l t y C'Tbe fined Town tnjHolland Sea w ho have Orders to hold themfelve. ready to march, arc Franclfort, March 29. The Metropolis of theCir-of the Council of the United l mvtncet and Affemhlses of intended the Service ot hii.Britann.ck M iellv - but r of the Empe-, the States General. are not tdH in the Empire. ' ' 1 ' They avrite from Paris, that in the midft of all the j violent Meafures taken there, many People of Penetration. ... _ , , ,, , . 1 . . . - . . j are, of Opinion that a Peace is at Hand, Yefterday. Copies of the Plan of Operations for the j- Fiejus and Cannes are both Sea Port Towns of Pro- j The Commifiioners of the Navy have order'd coo approaching Campaign, are handed about here, l y vence, jht firfl h Jo called from the old Latin Name Po- ! Qb en and 300 Hogs for Dover, and the fame Number which it appears that ? Urge Corps or I roops. under j r Julii, of which it is a corrupt Abbs eviatiost. it MJOy.cn and Hogs for Portfmouth, to be kili'J nn-the Command ot the Mai fbai BO'eiil, after which he fired his Piece where, upon fomc Body return'd the Fire, and fhot che Cetitinet in the Leg, which alarm'd the Guard.- who, v.m r
THE EXAMINER 829 tempt of religious decency and the biood rushes to iny cheek when 1 think of it. It was at the funeral of one of tbr best of 'women, whose iife was one con tinued sacrifice to Christian patience.' Tire Curate had had some despicable liitlb dispute with one of the per sons employed, and he came to the burying place, not with respect to the departed and devotion to the great Dispenser of life and death, but with all the sdbwls and the sulienness of baffled meanness. He began to repeat the service by rote amt at the same time to look about him, and he cotltiuncd to drawl, to look about him, and to eye, every uow and tjien, the object of his animosity, withso gross a wantof common feeling and Christiani ty, that nothing could prevent me from publishing the name of the miscreant, but a respect to that blessed memory, which he insulted at the edge of the grave. -fhtt let me forget this scene.-Mere earnestness has done more for the Methodists than all the miracles and inspiration they can bring together ami the Church of England, which possesses men to whom the best of them arc but meek bigots, wilt in vain' be learned in it's doctrine and liberal in it's practice, if it suffers every enthusiast who has confidence and a loud voice to carry Sway it's religions multitude by an ap pearance of more heart-felt devotion. All this, how ever, still depends upon the first cause, an enlightened reformation. ' v ' 4. In the mean time, the Laity who oppose the Methodists Fi-om a love of Christian tolcwitiop, have nothing to do but to attack them with the weapon most formidable to ignorance and intolerance, sheer ridi cule. Few of the Methodists know how to reason, and those who pretend to knowledge, tell us they wiil not allow it So they must be iudlilged. Admire the usual inconsistency of these.fneu when they have reason on tlreir side, they reject it and when they reject it, it is in the very rejection they have it most on their side. I cannot conclude my subject better than by quoting the witty and the wise advice of an author, who in one of his Poems has -shewn how truly he could estimate the beauty of real Christianity, while at the same time he was a bitter foe to every species of fanaticism. The Methodists say they despise ridicule because it makes no serious impression, as if Cot-. lyer's frippory or Hut's buffoonery made any such impressions on men who have true conceptions either of reason ■ or ridicule but if alt the wits would exert themselves, I much suspect that ridi cule would make very serious impressions and there is still a stronger reason, says Goldsmith, for the enthusiast's being an enemy to laughter, namely, his being himself so proper an object of ridi cule. It is remarkable, that the propagators of false doctrines have ever been averse to mirth, and always begin by recommending gravity, when they intended to disseminate imposture. Fohi, the idol of China, is represented as having never laughed Zoroaster, the leader of the Bramins, is said to have laughed but twice, upon bis coming into the world, and upon his leaving it and Mahomet himself, though a lover of pleasure, was a professed opposer of gaiety. The Deserted Village. See he whole of an excellent Essay on Methodism. Citizen of the World. Vel. 2. Letter Hi. Ridicule lias ever becli fl e most powerful enemy of enthusiasm, and properly the only 'antagonist that can he opposed to it .with sticcess. Persecution only serves to propagate new religions they acquire fresh vigour beneath the executioner imd 'life axe, 1 and like some vivacious insects, multiply by dissection.' It is also impossible to. combat enthusiasm with reason,' for though it makes a shew of resistance, it soon aiudes tlie pressure, refers you to distinctions not to be un derstood, aud feelihgs which it cannot explain, A man who would endeavour to fix an en thusiast by argument,' might as well attempt to spend quicksilver with his fingers. The' only way to conquer a visionary is to despise him the stake, the faggot, and the disputing doctor, m some measure-ennoble the opinions they are brought to oppose they are harmless against innovating pride contempt alone is truly dreadful. C5T ABUSES IN CHRIST'S HOSPITAL. It is muph to be feared that a proper inquiry into the abuses of this Institution will not soon take place. A motion was lately made at a General Meeting of the Governors for appointing a Committee to inquire into the alledged abuses. Upwards of 100 Governors were present, yet only seven held up their hands for,the motion!!-Aldermen Newnham, Smith, and Birch, were particularly anxious to prevent inquiry. How many improper objects have these Gentlemen recom mended, that they wish to stifle all investigation? It must be confessed that this conduct of the Go vernors is more than 1 suspicious. Why not inquire ? What harm can possibly result from investigation, if the parties have nothing to fear,-if their conduct has been pure and upright ? Honest men know well that concealment must always create suspicion, and is therefore to be avoided. If tjieGovemors have done their duty, inquiry would only tend to their honour and advantage but if they have slumbered at .their posts,-if they have from impure motives suffered the Institution to be abused by the admission of improper objects,-their solicitude to avoid inquiry is not to he at all wondered at. That hundreds of unfortunate objects have applied in vain for admission, is sufficiently notorious and that many persons with abundant means of educating ami providing for their children and relatives have ob tained their admission into the School, is also equally well known. The Vicar of Edmonton's case, thanks to the exertions of Mr. Waithman, is now as generally known as his conduct is reprobated but his is not the only recent abuse. A boy says Mr. Waithman in his Letter to the Governors of the name of Cari sfort Proby, has been admitted since Mr. Warren's son, un der the presentation of Sir George Baker, Bart. I will ask, whether his father has not twh livings, Bee-wood and Litchfield, in Staffordshire, of the-value of 7001. per ann. besides his own and wife's fortune ?-. whether the boy is not nephew to Lord S--f-ill, and first cousin to the Lady of Sir S- H-d ?-whether he is not cousin to Hie Earl of C -ys-t?-whether his mother is not sister to a Baronet ? c. e. Will the Governors say that those things are prope
JZ5 l Sept. 13, 1845.J THE EXAMINER. 591 I ILVER PLATE, the Precious Metals in orery is now generally ■ivin London, the CLUB OTELS. Testimonials ■m the eminent chemist, J many eminent silver-ktreet, and at the Manu-fcottles, at Is.6d., 2s.6d., ■ Silversmiths, and Iron-Barclay and Co. Sut-ILWICH, TUNNEL, LIMEHOUSE, or BLACK WALL. - RE-DUl'ED 4ARE8 by the WATERMAN'S ROATS. , Observe-Two White Rims round the Funnel. u R E E MASONS' and GENERAL LIFE f ASSURANCE COMPANY, 11 Wnwrloo niece. Pillmall. London. Business transacted in all the branches at.d for all objects of Life Assur ance, Endowments, and Annuities, and to secure contingent Reversions, fcr. Information and Prospectuses furnished bv JOSEPH BERRIDGE, Secretary, EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY. TVTOnCE is herebv given that, pursuant tn the 1 Deed of Settlement, ah ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the proprietors of ten or more shares will be held at rhe office of the Company, No. 3 the Crescent, New Bridge street. Black friars, an FRI. DAY. the 3rd day of October next, at 12 oclock for 1 o'clock precisely, for the purpose of receiving the Account- of the Company, and of electing Four Directors in the room of Walter Anderson Peacock, Esq., Charles Barry Baldwin, Esq. M.P., Charles Thomas Holcombe, Esq., and Lieu tenant-General Sir John Wilson, K.C.B., and One Auditor in the room of Christopher James Campbell, Esq. who go out by rotation, but who arc eligible to he re-elected. HENRY P. SMITH, Actuary. Eagle Life Office, 3 The Crescent, New Bridge street, lllackfriars. September 3,1845. I?v a by-law no person can be a candidate for the office of Director or Auditor unless he shall give notice thereof in writing to the Actuary fourteen days at the least previous to the General Meeting. ATATIONAL loan fund life 1 ASSURANCE SOCIETY, 26 CORNHILL. LONDON. Capital, 500.000 .-•Empowered by Act of Parliament. This Institution offers important and substantial advantages, with xespect both to Life Assurances and Deferred Annuities. The Assured ha . on all occasions, the power to borrow, without expense or for feiture of the Policy, two-thirds of the premium paid see table also the option of selecting benefits, and the conversion of his interest to meet other conveniences or necessity. Assurances for terms of years are granted on the lowest possible rates. DIVISION OF PROFITS The success and increasing prosperity of the Society has enabled the Directors, at the last annual investigation, to declare a third Bonus, ra ying fnm 3 1 to 75 per cent, on the premiums paid on each Policy effected on the Profit scale. EXAMPLES. PUNCH'S ACTS OF PARLIAMENT. T II This day is published, in small 8vo, uniform with the Comic Blackstone, price 6d. E SMALL DEBTS A With Annotations and Examinations, Critical and Analytical. By GILBERT ABBOT a BECKETT. London published at the PUNCH OFFICE, 92 Fleet street. C T The Sixth Volume of the New and Illustrated Edition of Mr JAMES'S WORKS will be published on October 1st, containing HENRY OF GUISE OR, THE STATES OF BLOIS. in cloth Volumes of this Series are Published Quarterly, price 8s. each, handsomely printed in large 8vo, with an Illustration on Steel, and bound London SMITH, ELDER, and CO. 65 Cornhill. s 3 Age Sum. '§ Year. ! ! ! Bonus Bonus in added. Cash. Permanent ! reduc. of Premium. Sum the Assured may bor row on Policy. £ s. d. £ s. d. c. £ s. d. 18'17 191 13 5 87 13 5 13 17 1 395 11 1 60 1.0J0 4 3 4 1838 165 13 0 74 13 10 11 8 6 346 2 3 1839 138 13 6 til 14 3 9 2 10 296 13 4 1840 89 0 0 41 13 4 6 0 0 247 4 5 The division of profits is annual, an ! the next will be made in Decem ber of the present year. F. FERGUSON CAM ROUX, Secretary. 'ILASS.-Richly-cut GLASS CHANDELIERS JT in great variety of elegant and original designs, from 10 . upwards averv choice stock of richly-cut Glass Single-light LUSTRES, from 17 . per pair, upwards double-light GIRANDOLES, from 6 . 10s. per pair, upwards TABLE GLASS of everv description at equally reasonable prices, together with a unique Collection of Ornamental Glass, are now exhibited ft r inspection and -ale at F.and C. OSLER'S London YVare-h.u c, -II Oxford street, near Berners street recently opened in con nexion with their Manufactory at Birmingham. Establi hed 1807. tjpEAS at the WHOLESALE PRICE.-Families, hotel-keepers, and large consumeis supplied with tea at the whole sale pi ice for cash. Black 2s. 8 l , 3s., 3s. 4d., 3s. 8 1., 4s., 4s. 4d., 4s. 8d., and 5s. Green, 3s 4d., 3s. 8d., 4s., 4s. 4d., 5s., 6s. Coffee, 91., 10d., Is., Is. 2d., ls.4J., Is. fid.. Is. 8d-One noun 1 and upwards sent to anv part of town. - MANSELL and CO., 2 Uucklersbury, Cheapside Country orders for six pounds of tea and upwards delivered free of carriage 11 any part of the kingdom. SUPERIOR FRENCH BEDDING.-HEAL and O SON'S MATTRESSES, of fine Ion wool and horse hair, are quite equal to the best that are made in Paris and they having been the original introducers of French Mattresses, have pail great attention to their manufacture. Also Spring Mattresses, combining the utmost elas ticity w.th the greatesttlurability. List of prices of everv description of Bedding sent tiee by post, on application to their establishment, the largest in London, exclusively for the manufacture and sale of Bedding no bed tea Is or other furniture being kept. -H EAL and SON, Feather-dressers and Bedding Manufacturers, 19i opposite the Chapel , Totten ham court road. D rawing-room clocks. A. B. SAVORY and SONS, No. 9 Cornhill, London, opposite the Bank of England, invite attention to a splendid variety of Rosewood China, Bronze, and Ormolu CLOCKS they go for eight days, and strike the hours and half hours. Price Four Guineas, Seven Guineas, and Ten Guineas each, and upwards. The performance is warranted. A Pam phlet, with detailed lists of prices, and illustrated with sketches, may be had on application, gratis, or sent to all parts of Great Britain and Ire land, postage free, in answer to a paid letter. oilver-plated dish covers.-a. b. SAVORY and SONS, Manufacturing Silversmiths, 14 Cornhill, London, opposite the Bank of England, submit for choice in their plate y°ms many patterns of SILVER-PLATED DISH COVERS, of Sfief-held manufacture, from 15 to 20 guineas the set, viz. -The Melon Pattern. Size. £ s. d. 1 Plated Dish Cover, 2 in. 5 17 0 1 ~ Dish Cover, 16 in. 4 14 6 2 ~ Dish Covers, 14 in. 6 6 o T HE RUGBY, DERBY, and MANCHESTER RAILWAY, THROUGH LEEK. Provisionally Registered pursuant to 7 and 8 Viet. c. 110 Capital, £1,500,0 10, in 60,000 Shares of £25 each. Deposit, £l 7 . 6.1. per Share. In deference to the representations of a deputation from Leek, it has been decided that the Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway shall pass through Leek, in place of a branch, ns originally designed and advertised. The Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway is a direct line from London to Manchester, coming from London to Rugby, along the Lon don and Birmingham line, and proceeding from Rugby by Hinckley through Market Bosworth and Ashby-de la Ziuch to Derby, thence to Ashbourne, by Leek to Macclesfield, and along the Macclesfield and Stockport, and Stockport and Manchester Railways, into Manchester. A branch to Buxton is in contemplation. The principle of this railway is to obtain a direct through line between some of the most important districts in the kingdom with the least pos sible amount of new railway, and consequently the smallest expenditure of capital. It will also establish the shortest direct communication between Derby and London, Sheffield and London, and between all the towns on the North Midland Railway and London. The Manchester, Derby, and Rugby Railway will open a direct com munication between Manchester and Derby, and will considerably shorten the distance between Manchester and Nottingham and Manchester and Leicester. The line from Derby to Rugbv will establish the direct communication • fr -m that town to London, which has been so long considered desirable by the inhabitants. The same will apply to Sheffield, when the Sheffield and Chesterfield branch of the North Midland Railway is made. The great advantages of the Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway, through Leek, over the other projects into Manchester, among otheis, are-First. That there are only 75 miles of railway to be made in place of 189. Secondly. That it is a more direct line from London Manchester than even the proposed direct lines. Thirdly. That it interferes with no existing railway property or vested interests. Fourthly. That it passes through a district rich in manufactures, agri culture, and minerals, but which-more especially as regards its agricul tural produce, and a convenient system of intercommunication for the conveyance of that agricultural produce, to supply the large manufac turing towns in the vicinity-has been hitherto left totally without rail-wav communication. Fifthly. That it passes through the towns in its route, in place of avoiding them. Sixthly. That the whole line of railway from Rugby to Manchester will be completed and in working order within ten months from the pass ing of the Act of Parliament. Seventhly. Tha r the maps plans, estimates, and other documents re quired by the standing orders of Parliament will be lodged with the parish clerks, the clerks of the peace for the counties, and the parliamentary office , on the 10th day of November next, being twenty days within the time required by the regulations of Parliament. The report of the engineer of the Company is already completed, and will be made public in a few days, upon which a further and full pro spectus with the names of the Provisional Directory, will be published. In the meantime, communications may be addressed to Thos. George Smith, Esq. 2 YVarnford court, Throgmorton street Messrs J. B. and D. Neilson, Liverpool John Fox, Esq. solicitor Thomas Jones, Esq. the Company's agent, Ashbourne E Kem Jervis, Esq. solicitor, Hinckley G. Greaves. Esq.and John Moss,Esq. solicitor, Derby MessrsCrossley and Sudlow, Manchester and to the Company's solicitor, Thos. Gibson Brewer, Esq. 13 Grav's-inn square. WILLIAM R. SCOTT, Secretary. Double Dome Pattern. Size. £ s. d. Plated Dish Cover, 20 in. 5 13 6 - Dish Cover, 18 in. 4 7 6 ~ Dish Covers, 16 in. 5 12 6 Per set £l5l3 0 Per set £l6 17 6 The above have silver handles and mountings, and silver shields for engraving the crest or coat of arms. A price current, illustrated by draw ings, and containing every information relative to the purchase of silver or Sheffield plate, may be had on application, or will be sent into the country, free of postage, in answer to a paid letter. B FUDGE'S WATERPROOF OVER-COATS, SHOOTING JACKETS, c. in Llamas and other new and greatly approved material , manufactured expressly for W. B.-These really waterproof garments having been in extea ive use seven years, and become established in the estimation of the respectable classes, are, it is presumed, now too well known to need description or recommendation. Dailv experience increasingly proves that, where once adopted, they are regarded as sine-qua-nons. A large Stock of first-rate GARMEN TS, adapted to all purposes, and guaranteed to exclude any rain whatever, kept to select from, of which an inspection is confidently invited.-Made only by W. HER DOE, TAILOR, WATERPKOOFER, c. J9 CORN HILL north side . PAD DIGESTION-WONDERFUL CURE by J HOLLOWAY'S PILLS and OINTMENT.-T Gardiner, Esq. of 9 Brown street, Grosvenor square, declares that he had been under four of the most eminent physicians, besides five of the greatest surgeons in London. He suffered from a distended stomach, bad digestion, settled pains in the chest, was very nervous and greatly debilitated, and scarcely able to walk a hundred yards. Not deriving the least relief from the faculty, he set about rubbing large quantities of Holloway's Ointment 'to h s chest, and took Holloway's Pills night and morning, which effec tually lestored him to perfect health and vigour in tile short space of three We-ks-Sold at Professor Holloway's Establishment, 244 Strand, and by ad respectable Medicine Venders. HYDRO-park, near Rich-THE COLD WATER CURE.-The f , I'ATHIC ESTABLISHMENT, at Sudbrook p.. . ■-nior.d, Surrey, is now in full operation., under the personal superin tendence of the eminent Joseph Weiss, M.D., from Friewaldeau, and 'ateoi Stanstead Bury, formerly the coadjutor of Vincent Preissnirz, at Graefenberg. The beautiful domain of Sudbrook, upwards of 100 acres, forms the western boundary of the Royal paik of Richmond, to nich the patients enjoy the privilege of immediate access by a private entrance. The plunge and other baths, with the pleasure grounds, have undug me recent and great improvements. There is a spaejnus salle-a-® ger, and an excellent billiard and drawing rooms. The terms of tfte establishment vary from three guineas per week and upwards ac cording to the apartments , which includes medical attendance, board, lodging, and servants. Dr Weiss may be consulted every day at Sud brook park, Fridays excepted, on which days he attends from 11 to 4 o clrck, at 28 Sackville street, Piccadilly, for the convenience of parties 'vidiing to consult him in London HPHE SOUTH and MIDLANDS JUNCTION, X and BICESTER, SWINDON, MARLBOROUGH, DEVIZES, and SALISBURY RAILWAY, with Branches to Poole and South ampton. Capital, £l,280,000, in 6-4,005 Shares of £20 each. Deposit, £2 2s. fid. per Share. Provisionally Registered according to 7th and 8th Viet., c. 110. PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE. The Right Hon. Lord Viscount Dillon, Ditchley Park, Oxon, and Loughlyn House, Loughlyn, Ireland. The Hon. Captain William Gore, Director of the Great Western of Bengal Rail wav. William Bulkeley Hughes, Esq. M.P. Chairman of the Welsh Midland Railway Richard Price, Esq. M.P. Director of the Welsh Midland Railway. David R. Ross, Esq. M.P. Chairman of the Belfast, and Director of the London and Manchester Railway. Sir John E. De Beauvoir, Bart, Chairman of the London and Birming ham Extension. Sir William Bacon Johnston, Bart, Hilton, Aberdeenshire. Sir George William Prescott, Hart,'Theobald's, Herts, Director of the Chester and Manchester Direct Railway. Sir William Hyde Pearson, Bart, Hanover square. Sir John Key, Bart, Alderman of London, Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Sir William Wynn, Maesynewadd, Chairman of the North Wales Rail way. Sir John Hare, Bart, Langham place, Director of the London and Bir mingham Extension. Brigadier-General Sir Henry Pynn, Bart, Director of the Direct Western Railway. Admiral J. Ayscough, Prospect-place House, Southampton. Edmund Francis Dayrell, Esq. Lillingstone, Davrell, Bucks, High Sheriff of the County, and Director of the Bucks and Oxford and Wolverton Junction Railway. Thomas Sydney. E q. Alderman and Sheriff of London, Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Thomas Farncomb, Esq. Alderman of London, Director of the London and Westminster Rank, and Namur and Liege Railway. Thomas Kelly, Esq. Alderman of London. John Kinnersley Hooper, Esq. Alderman of London, and Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. The Mayor of Buckingham. The Mayor Elect of Woodstock. Donald Maclean, Esq. Deputy Chairman of the Trent Valley Continua tion. Major Oliver Lindam, K.H. Chairman of the Gloucester, Aberystwith and Cen'ral Wales Railway. Richard Hart ey Kennedy, Esq. Chairman of the Coventry and Leicester and Warwick and Cheltenham Railways. Archibald Spens, Esq. Manor House, lnvereske, Director of the Warwick and Cheltenham Junction Railway, and of the Great Western of Bengal. James Brancher, Esq. Chairman of the Liverpool and Bury, and Man chester and Bolton Railways. Major Morse Cooper, Director of the Great Western of Bengal Railway. Captain James Patrick M'Doughall, late Bengal Royal General Staff, Fir Grove, North Brixton, Director of the Chepstow and Forest of Dean, c. Railway Stephen Lewis. Esq. Directorof the South Wales Railway. W. A. Wilkinson, Esq. Director of the Waveney Valley and Great Yar mouth Railway. Maior-General Pari by C.B. Rutland gate, Directorof the Worcester, Shrewsbury, and Crewe Union Railway. Richard Carpenter, Esq. Magistrate of the county of Middlesex, Deputy Chairman of the London and Birmingham Extension, and Director of the Leicester and Bedford Railway. John Stewart, Esq. Portman square, Directorof the East Indian Rail way. Colonel Robert Douglas, Royal Artillery, Director of the London and Birmingham Extension. Major Grubbe, Eastwell House, Potterne, Wilts, Magistrate of th county. Edmund Phillips, Esq. Avon House, Melksham, Wilts. Captain Edward Dewes, Buckingham, Director of the Bucks and Oxford and Wolverton Junction Railway. Charles Thomas Ward, Esq. Luton Hoo, Beds, and Clopton House, Stratford-on-Avon. Joseph Brook, Esq. Greenhead, Huddersfield, Director of the Leeds, Dewsbury, anti Manchester, and Huddersfield and Sheffield Junction Railways. George Henry Brook, Esq. Edgulin Lodge, Huddersfield, Provisional Director of the Huddersfield. Halifax, and Bradford Union Railway. Vero Clarke Kemhall, Esq. Chester place, Hyde Park gardens. John Helbere Helbert, Esq. Gloucester place. Portman square. James Beech, Esq. 15 Grosvcrnor place, a-.id Brandon Lodge, near Coven try, Director of the South Midland. Wm. Watson Prole, Esq. Thurloe square, Brompton, Director of the Jersey Railway. Edward Deakins, Esq. Bicester, Oxon. Frederick James Hall, E q. Torrington square, and Alfreton, Derby, Director of the Trent Valley Continuation. Major Waller, K.H. Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Captain Seth N. Fisher, Director of the Warwick and Worcester Rail way. Joseph Crockett, Esq. Alderman of Devizes, and Director of the North Wilts Banking Company. Colonel Fitch, York Terrace, Regent's park. Joseph Underwood, Esq. The Hall, Blackheath, Director of the Metro politan Life Insurance Company, and Director of the London and Bir mingham Extension Company. W. A. Hill, Esq. Director of the Gloucester and Aberystwith and Central Wales Railway. Robert Marriott Freeman, Esq. Stoncy Stratford Bucks, Directorof the Bucks Railway. William Sloane, Esq. YVimpole street, Cavendish square, Chairman of the Church of England Life Insurance Company. Richard Dutton, Esq. Directorof the Lincoln, York, and Leeds Railway, and Director of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. C. W. Tyndaie, Esq. Director of the South Eastern Railway. Frederick Jones, Esq. Lincoln's inn. Director of the Warwick and Wor cester Railway. Col. Olivier, the Manor House, Potterne, Wilts, Magistrate of the County, and Director of the Wiits, Somerset, and Weymouth Railway. William Turner, Esq. Shipton on-Churwell, Oxon. T. C. Norbury, Esq. Director of the Leicester and Bedford Railway. James Reeves, Esq. Directorof the London and Manchester Direct Rail way. Henry Lewis Smale, Esq. Willoughby House, Tottenham, Director of the London and Dover Railway. Thomas Gooch, Esq. Director of the Fidelity Guarantee Society. Henry Gerard Ohrly, Esq, Director of the Trent Valley Continuation Railway, and of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. John Anderson, Esq. E.I.C.S. Director of the Church of England Life Insurance. The Rev. Henry John Passand, Rector of Shepton-on-Cherwell. W. P. Courteny, Esq. Temple, Director of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. John James, Esq. Secondary of the City of London, and Director of the Legal and Commercial Insurance Company. William S. Potter, Esq. Sussex gardens, Hyde park, Director of the Oxford, Witney, and Cheltenham Railway. William Hallett, Esq. Kemp Town, Brighton. William Singleton, Esq. Director of the Liverpool and Leeds Railway. Robert Richards, Inner Temple, London. George Robert Colm n, Esq. Director of the South Midland and North ampton and Banbury Railways. John Brocke Walbaucke, Esq. Directorof the South Midland Railway. Henry Wright, Esq. Brunswick square, Director of the Warwick and Worcester Railway. John Fagan, Esq Gloucester road, Old Brompton. William Bardgett, Esq. Winchester House, Broad street, Directorof the Italian and Austrian Railway. Erasmus Forster, Esq. Director of the Britannia Life Insurance Com pany, and Derby and Stafford Railway. William Paxton, Esq. Langford, near Bicester. With power to add to their number. Bankers. London-The Commercial Bank, Lothbury. Bicester-Messrs Tubb and Co. Woodstock-Messrs Gillettand Tawney. Witney-The London and County Bank. Devizes-Messrs Hughes and Co. and The North Wilts County Bank. Consulting Engineers. Sir John Macneill, LL.D. and F.R.S. James Thompson, Esq. F.R.S.E. and M.R.I.A. Acting Engineer.-William Mull ingay Higgins, Esq. Solicitor.-W. B. James, Esq. 5 Basinghall street, London. Local Agents. Devizes-J. W. Wall, Esq. Bicester-W. C'. Turner, Esq, Witney-Francis Hunt. Esq. Woodstock-Benjamin Holloway, Esq. Salisbury-Messrs Foote and Radclifle, Offices of the Company, 29 Gresham street. George Lawton, Esq. Ditchley, Essex, Director of the Manchester and Birkenhead Cor rin i n Bml South 'illiam James J Bucks Railw v. Birkenhead Continuation, and South Midlands Railways. William James Bailey, Esq. Shenley House, Bucks, Director of the wuica to Dr Weiss. Prospectuses may be had on appli Joseph Brown, Esq. Director of the Manchester and Birmingham Con tinuation. Peter Morrison, Esq. Managing Director of the Britannia Life Insurance Company. Richard Heaviside, Esq. Director of the Great Luxembourg Railway. Nathl. Cumbeiiidge, Esq. Joseph Gill, Esq. Chapel Town, Leeds, Director of the Lincoln, York, and Leeds Railway. James Clay, Esq. 25 Montagu square, Director of the Furness and White haven Railway. Joseph Thompson, Esq. Director of the London and Brighton Railway. William Fechnev Black, Esq. Wilton place, Belgrave square. Director of the Italian and Austrian Railway. William Cole, Esq. Bicester, Oxon, Directorof the Wilts and Berks Canal. William Shaw, Esq. Director of the Thames Embankment, and Manag ing Director of the Farmer ' DUe Insurance Company, CHOLERA AND BOWEL COMPLAINTS IN GENERAL. D icey and ecus true daffy's elixir.-This most excellent Medicine has been faithfully prepared for nearly a century, from the purest Drugs and Spirits that can be procured, at the original warehouse, No. 10 Bow churchyard, London and has been attended with the fullest success in the cure of the Gravel, Stone, Spasms, Pains in the Breast, the most excruciating Fits of the Cholic, and in all complaints of the Stomach and Bowels. In bottles at 2s. and 2s. 9d. each. See that the words Dicey and Co. are engraved on the Government Stamp, all others being counterfeit and worthless preparations. H ernia, distortion, c., cured, or Relieved, by Mechanical Means. - Mr J. WALTERS begs to nform his Medical Friends and the Public that he has male arrange ments for being at home daily from Ten till Two o'clock, during which hours he may be consulted in ail cases requiring mechanical contrivance with surgical knowledge. Having directed much attention to the subject of Hernia or Rupture , he is enabled, in almost all cases, to ensure to the patient an efficient vet comfortable support. J. W. takes this oppor tunity to thank the medical and surgical profession for their kind support and 4 vice, more especially the hospital surgeons of the City, who have honoured him with their confidence.-16 Moorgate street. City. TO SUFFERERS. TNSTANT RELIEF from PAIN !-LEFAY'S X GRANDE POMMADE cures, in most cases, by one application. Tic Douloureux, Gout, and all painful affection of the Nerves. Patients who had lost the use of their limbs from weakness, brought on by para lysis and rheumatism, have by a few rubbings ,been restored to strength and comfort, after all the usual remedies had been tried and found use less . Its effects have also been experienced in its rapid cure of rheumatic pains of the head and face, paralytic affections, weakness of the ligaments and j lints, glandular swellings, sore throat, chronic rheumatism, palpita tion of the heart, and difficult respiration. It requires no res Wit from business or pleasure, nor does itcause any eruption, and ms, . ,-ied to the most delicate skin without fear of injury. Sold, by the appointment of Jean Lefay, the Inventor, by his sole agent, J. YV. STIRLING, che-OM it, 86 High street, Whitechapel, in Metallic Cases, at 4s fid. and 1 . 9d. each who will answer any inquiries if by letter post paid respecting it, and also show letters received from numerous patients who have benefited by its application, III .
