 the present year these, with those @before@ possessed, are su@@ﬃcient for the harbours and waters most exposed and the residue will require little time for their construc- tion, when it shall be deemed necessary.y. Under the Act of t@he last Session, for raising au ad- ditional military force, so many o@@ﬃcers were immediately appointed as were necessary for carrying on the business of recruiting and in proportion as it advanced, others ha@ve been added. We have reason to believe their suc- cess has @been satisfactory, although such returns have not been received, as enable e to present you a statement of the numbers engaged. I have not thought it necessary, in the course of the last season,@ to call for any general detachments of Militia, or of Volunteers, under the laws passed for that purpose for the ensuing season, however, they will he required to @be in readiness, should their service be want@ed. So@me small and special detachments have been necessary to maintain the laws of embargo, on that portion of our @Northern @frontier, which o@ﬀered peculiar facilities for evasion @@bat these were replaced, as soon as it could be done, by bodies of new recruits. By@ the aid of these, and of t@he armed vessels called into service in other quar- ters, the spirit of disobedience and abuse, which mani- fested itself early, and with sensible e@ﬀect, while we were unprepared @to meet it, has been considerably repressed. Considering the extraordinary character of t@he times in which we live, our attention should unremittingly be @ﬁxed on the safety of our country. For a people who are free, and who mean to remain so, a well organised and @armed Militia is their best security. It is, therefore, in- cumbent on us at every meeting to revise the condition of the Militia, and to ask ourselves if it is prepared to repel a powerful enemy at every point of our territories ex- posed to invasion. Some of the Slates have paid a laud- able attention to this object, but every degree of neglect is to be found among others. Congress alone haying the power to produce an uniform state of preparation in this great organ of defence, the interests which they so deeply feel in their own and their country's security, w@ill pre- sent this as among the most important objects of their de- liberation. Under the Acts of March 11, and April 23, re- specting arms, the di@@ﬃculty of procuring them from a- broad, during the present situation @@@@@dispositions of @Europe, induced us to direct our whole e@ﬀorts to the means of @internal supply the public factories have, therefore, been enlarged, additional machineries@ erected, and, in proportion as arti@ﬁcers can @he found or@ formed, their ef- fect, already more than doubled, may be increased so as to keep pace with the @yearly increase of the Militia. The annual sums appropriated by the latter Act, have @@been directed to the encouragement of private factories of arms and contracts have been entered into with indi- vidual undertakers, to nearly the amount of the @ﬁrst year's  suspension of our foreign commerce, produced by the injustice of the Belligerent Powers, and the con- sequent losses and sacri@ﬁces of our Citizens, are subjects of just concern. The situation into w@hich we @have @@thus been forced, has impelled us to apply @a portion of our in- dustry and capital to internal manufactures and improve- ments. T@he extent of this conversion is  and little doubt remains that the establishments formed and forming, will, under the@ auspices of cheaper @mate- rials and subsistence, the freedom of labour from taxation with us, and of protecting duties and  be- come permanent. The commerce with the India@ns, too, within our own boundaries, is likely to reserve ab@un@dant aliment from the same internal source, and will secure to them peace and the progress of  by practices hostile to @@@@@The accounts of the receipts and@  the year, ending on the 30th day of September last, being not yet made up a correct statement w@ill her@eaft@er be transmitted from the Treasury. In the meantime, it is ascertained, that the receipts have amounted to near eighteen millions of dollars, whic@h, w@ith the eight mil- lions and @a half in the Treasury at the beginning of the year, have enabled us,@ after meeting the current demands and interest incurred, to pay two millions three hundred thousand dollars of the principal of our funded debt, and left us in the Treasury on that day, near fourteen mil- lions of dollars of t@hes@@@e, @ﬁve millions three hundred and @ﬁfty thousand dollars, will be necessary to pay what @@will be due on the 1st of January next, which will complete the reimbursement of the 3 per cent. stock. These payments, w@ith those made in the six years and a half preceding, will have extinguished 33,580,000 dollars of @the princi- pal of the funded debt, being the whole which could be paid or purchased within t@he limits of the law and of@ our contracts and the amount of principal thus discharged, w@ill have liberated the revenue fro@m  dollars interest, and added that sum annually to the dis- posable surplus. The probable accumulation of the sur- plusses of revenue beyond what can be applied to the payment of t@he public debt, whenever the freedom and safety of our commerce shall be restored, merits the con- sideration of Congress. Shall it be productive in the public vaults ? Shall the revenue be reduced ? or shall it not rat@her be appropriated to the improvement of roads, canals, rivers, education, and other great foundations of prosperity and union, under the powers which Congress may already possess, or such amendment of the constitu- tion as may be approved by the States while uncertain of the course of things, the time may be advantageously employed in obtaining the powers necessary for a system of improvement, should that be thought best. Availing myself of this, the last occasion which w@ill occur, of addressing the two Houses of Legislature at their meeting, I cannot omit the expression of my sincere gratitude, for the repeated proofs of con@ﬁdence mani- fested to me by themselves and their predecessors, since my call to the administration@, and t@he many indulgencies experienced at their hands the @@same grateful acknow- ledgments are due to my fellow‐citizens generally, whose support has been my great encouragement under all em-  In the transaction of their business, I can- not have escaped error-@it is incident to our imperfect nature but I may say with truth, my errors have been of the understanding, not of intention and that t@he ad- vancement of their rights and interests has been the con- stant motive for every measure On these considerations I solicit their indulgence. Looking forward with anxiety to their fut@ure destinies, I trust, that in their @steady cha- racter, unshaken by di@@ﬃculties, in their love of liberty, obedience to law, and support of the public authorities, I see a sure guarantee of the permanence of our @Republicic and, retiring fr@om the charge of their a@ﬀairs, I carry w@ith @me the consolation of a @ﬁrm persuasion, that Heaven has in store for our beloved Country long ages t@o c@ome of prosperity and happiness.  se'@@might, about eight o'clock in the evening,  @Budgeon, of Dartford, w@as returning ho@me @fro@m Rochester, in a single horse chaise,  by his@ servant, he was stopped @by two footpads between@  and Foul Slough, near Greenhithe. One of the rob- bers seized @@the horse's head, the other, with a pistol in hi@s hand@, w@ent to the chaise, and with some horrid oaths er- claimed@@- your life or your @money. Mr. Budgeon re- plied, @he had no@ money@ for them, and  @T@he demand for money was@ repeated with the @threat to @ﬁre. Mr. Budgeon not  villain@ at the chaise struck several violent blows@ 
 sort of house they would build for a poor clergyman with 150l. a year, what a palace they must raise for a bishop with his 10,000l. his cathedral must be as a mere chapel to it. But as the old proverb says, Wilful waste makes woful want and the consequence of all the magni@ﬁcence of the Commission may be found in this case, example of a class, narrated by the Times-e  musical tunes be abandoned for ever. We shall see whether Mr O'Connell is more suc-cessful in this mode of disposing of signs of o@ﬀence than Harry of Exeter. As the surplice is an ob-noxious symbol of party, let it be worn by all, said the Bishop of Exeter, and it ceases to be the o@ﬀen-sive sign. Mr O'Connell proposes to dispose of party tunes in the same way, Join in them, and nobody can consider them a source of injury or o@ﬀence. If this bold project succeed, the duet of the orange and green must surely dissolve the union. What can stand against the Boyne Water, sung by the united voices of Orangemen and Repealers. If France at the same time should renew the singing of the Marseillaise, the case of England between the cross @ﬁre would be desperate  is equally novel and satisfactory to @ﬁnd that Catholics as Catholics have no longer any claim to make, and that therefore they are free to sing with their Protestant brethren. The Protestant Church in Catholic Ireland is then no bar to the union of voices in the Boyne Water. For an old song Ireland compounds for her grievances and, sitting under her established yoke, will take the second part in the old tunes of ascendancy. From these exalted political views Mr O'Con-nell suddenly passes to his dogs and their incapa-cities. He complains of a total refusal to lie on the part of the scent. As it is not likely that Mr O'Connell would amuse the Repeal Association with matters relating to the noses of his hounds, we must suppose that the passage is allegorical. I never knew weather in which the scent so totally re-fuses to lie. Although rising at six o'clock in the morning, while the due so spelt in the Times report is yet heavily on the ground, I @ﬁnd the dogs quite unable to hunt-my excellent pack were, for the @ﬁrst time, totally defeated-and curiously enough, it is only by remaining out till four o'clock in the afternoon that the dogs are able to develop their instinct, and to hunt as usual. By the scent we understand the game of Repeal, by the pack the instruments of Mr O'Connell's sport as for the due so heavy, it can only signify the rent, which is beginning to spoil the scent and  to @ﬁx a time for making any grant in this case,'  game. THE BANKRUPT ECCLESIASTICAL COMMISSION. When we learn from the Bishop of Salisbury that the Ecclesiastical Commissioners cannot ful@ﬁl  of East Grafton, in the parish of Great Bedwin, Wiltshire. It is as pretty a village church as may be seen in England, built in the Norman style, and a@ﬀording accommodation to @ﬁve hundred persons its indefatigable minister is de-servedly beloved, the attendance of the villagers most re-gular, and their pious and well-ordered demeanour on the Sabbath su@ﬀiciently touching to melt any heart less obdu-rate than that of an Ecclesiastical Commissioner. This church was built upon the understanding that certain sums should be advanced towards its endowment both by the Commissioners and by the patron of the parish in which the church stands. As a condition of the advance on the part of the Commissioners, the patron was called upon to relin quish his right of patronage to St Nicholas, and to su@ﬀer it to pass into the hands of the vicar of Great Bedwin. The right was relinquished upon such an understanding. Upon the faith of the Commissioners the present minister under-took the cure of the village, and from the moment that he commenced his duties until the present time -a period of nearly two years-not one farthing has he been able to procure from the Commissioners as a return for his services, and as a ful@ﬁlment of their own sacred engage-ment. His applications for payment have been numerous and respectful. The minister at length, unable to continue in the performance of his duties unless some steps are taken to secure to him the very small stipend upon which he has consented to labour, applies to the Bishop of the diocese, his natural protector, and a Commissioner. What is the Bishop's answer@? We are accused of unfairly representing the Commissioners. Mr Blackburn tells us that they are prosperous and thriving he de@ﬁes any minister to stand forward and say, '@that aught has failed him of all that has been pledged to him.' He calls upon us to publish a long letter of details to prove the wickedness of our charges. We comply with his request and, having done so, we proceed to give the Bishop's answer to the minister of St Nicholas. @'Nothing can be done,' says his Lordship, 'because the Com-missioners' a@ﬀairs are as embarrassed as they can be@!@' De-serted by the Bishop-deserted by the Commissioners, who will not even hold out a promise of future payment-dis-missed by '@the respected Secretary,' who is directed to  has recourse to the liberality of the noble patron. @@@@@@Let the noble patron refuse to pay the debt of the Commis-@@sioners-and in what respect is he accountable for it@?-and then St Nicholas Church is closed, and its hundreds of members dismissed from its altar. THE SOUTHWARK ELECTRON. The election of Sir W. Molesworth by a great  are reminded of  have been furnished by the clergyman, the other by the Commission. The Commissioners altered the conditions of the sum twice or thrice, raising it each time, and @ﬁnally @ﬁxing it at about 800l. for the moiety, instead of 500l. The poor clergyman could neither a@ﬀord the outlay, nor to keep up, with his slender income, the style of house which the Commissioners stipulated for, with library, drawing room, dining room, c., suited to a man of about 1,000l. a year, and which they would have forced on one of 150l. We do not profess to be exact in the @ﬁgures, but this is the outline of the case. Can we wonder now that a body disposed to be so profuse in its expenditure is reduced to bank-ruptcy@? And as Falsta@ﬀ was not only witty him-self, but the cause of wit in others, so this Eccle-siastical Commission is @not only bankrupt itself, but was calculated to be, and doubtless has been, the cause of bankruptcy in others. Had they induced the clergyman whose case Lord Radnor made known to build the mansion so preposte-rously exceeding his means, he would probably by this time have been as insolvent as his digni@ﬁed misleading superiors in the Commission. There was a curious ingenuity in making the two ends of extravagance meet in the instance referred to the Commissioners insisting on ad-vancing more than was necessary to compel the poor clergyman to defray more than he could a@ﬀord, and entailing the further imprudence of having to keep up a house too large for his very small income. With such an example as this before us we cannot be surprised that the Com-missioners' a@ﬀairs are as much embarrassed as they can be. They have, indeed, shown aptitudes for arriving at the ne plus ultra of mismanage-ment. If there had been wanted a body to show people how to live beyond their means and to ruin themselves, one better constituted for the purpose than this Ecclesiastical Commission could not have been appointed. We now see why it is that Bishops are so rich. It was happily preordained that they should be so rich to enable them to bear the management of the Ecclesiastical Commission. When we  or other commands. The admirals will be put to bed at a certain hour on a @ﬁxed night, and from that time an account will be kept of their rest and activity, how long they lay in bed, how long they were rising, what period at a stretch they were able to stand on their legs without or with the aid of stick or crutches, how many yards they could see without or with glasses, what sounds, and of what loudness, they could hear without or with ear trumpets. There will be stairs as high as those of the companion stairs of a first-rate, and an exact record will be kept of the number of times a day, if any, the admirals can mount them, and of the time occupied in each enterprise. There will also be a promenade the length of a first-rate's quarter deck, and the number of turns the admirals respectively take, if any, and the time occupied, will be noted. A balance will then be struck of the di@ﬀerent abilities and in@ﬁrmities, just as with the points in which ships excel or fail. There are ships that sail ill and lie-to well, and there are admirals that do the same, and one will lie-to for a month or six weeks at a stretch without straining, head to pillow. In the log of the Experimental Hospital such entries as these will appear -August 15th.-Signal made for admirals to get out of bed, dress, mount and walk the quarter deck, and exercise sight on the fore-top gallant sail. If an admiral in mounting the companion stairs has the misfortune to tumble, the order is, that upon that accident all shall return to their berths, and the sleeping order be resumed. On deck, if any admiral's cocked hat be carried away by stress of weather, all @are to be turned down below, for fear of fresh misadventure, and the experiments cease for that day, nightcaps being resumed. The Admiralty does not mean to insist that admirals shall be able to climb to the deck and walk it, or sit it, or stand it for that matter. It would, indeed, prefer such quali@ﬁcations, if attain-able but if not, and if there be the choice of an ad-miral always in bed, and one who is sometimes out of it, the Admiralty will choose the latter. So for an experimental squadron it will not require that the admiral shall be able to see to the bowsprit end without or with glasses but if it has the elec-tion of one who can see the fore-top while another can see only as far as the main-top, the Admiralty, coeteris paribus, will prefer the admiral with the superior organs of sight. The admirals in the Experimental Hospital will be allowed respectively the aid of four nurses each, to be divided into watches of the starboard and larboard nurses, and to relieve each other at the usual  sarcastic mention of him as Reverend that provoked him to the retaliation of In@ﬁdel. It was thus confessedly prompted only by revenge. Un-deniably Mr Miall deserves the name of reverend as little as Sir W. Molesworth that of in@ﬁdel. THE QUEEN AND THE DEER SLAUGHTER. Extract of a letter, dated Gotha, September 1, addressed to a gentleman in London -'This the deer killing was very shocking. The Queen wept. I saw large tears in her eyes and her Majesty tells me that she with di@ﬀiculty kept the chair during what followed. When the Queen saw the otter hunt in Scotland, the pity that she naturally felt at the death of the animal was counterbalanced by a knowledge@ of his propensities, so that it is almost as meritorious to destroy an otter as it is a snake but this was a totally dif-ferent case nor is her Majesty yet recovered. For the Prince, t@he deer were too numerous, and must be killed. This was the German method and no doubt the reigning Duke will distribute them to his people, who will thank Prince Albert for providing them venison.' -Standard. The deer must be killed, perhaps so sheep must be killed, bullocks must be killed, but that is no reason why the Queen should be taken to the shambles. Her Majesty wept and could hardly keep her seat during the loathsome slaughter, but why was she taken to a scene so shocking to her feelings? Whose fault was it that she was so pained@? As for the otter, pity for his death was coun-terbalanced by a knowledge of his propensities. The otter's propensities are given him by nature, and they incline his tooth greatly to @ﬁsh, but could that evil appetite reconcile the Queen to the wor-rying of him by the hounds, and the impaling, which it is so shocking to see even in a picture? And if destroying otters and snakes be so meri-torious as the courtly writer asserts, yet the merit may be questioned of destroying either the one or the other by torture. The courtier, so hard on snakes, ought to have more fellow-feeling with crawling creatures. EXPERIMENT BEFORE EXPERIMENT. It is the intention of the Admiralty to establish an in@ﬁrmary, in which trial may be made of the bodily in@ﬁrmities and incapacities of admirals  Robert,-I repeat that I have not exaggerated in asserting that one-tenth of the crops of this country are de-stroyed by the game and the vermin protected in the covers. Latterly the system of planting has been di@ﬀerent from what it used to be. We used to have preserves of several hundred acres in which the game found shelter, and of course did great damage to the adjacent crops but now we have patches and copses of woodland in every three or four @ﬁelds, small in size, but su@ﬀicient for the shelter and breeding of the game-a sort of pen in which game is folded, ready to consume the produce of every @ﬁeld, so that none should escape. The foxes have been lately all de-stroyed, and the country has no longer been hunted as it used to be, although some hounds still are kept. The foxes were the farmers' friends in this county, as they kept down the rabbits but since game has been sold, they have been found to interfere too much with the pro@ﬁts and although no landlord will admit that he has ordered a fox to be killed, it is certain that they have almost wholly dis-appeared. Formerly, when game was reared only for sport, foxes were respected, being equally entitled to protection as a@ﬀording another variety of amusement to others but now that game is a source of pro@ﬁt, that gentlemanly feel-ing appears to have been lost. From the want of statistics, it is impossible to say what proportion of the land in the country is at present in plan-tation and wood. The total number of acres in Norfolk are stated to be 1,338,880, of which it is computed that there are in arable, meadow, and marsh, 1,082,567. This leaves a balance of 256,813 acres of land for the sites of towns, roads, plan-tations, and waste land. How much of this may be in wood and plantation, it is impossible to say for want of statistics but admitting that there is one-half, we have 128,156 acres of land untilled in this county alone, and that with a popu-lation su@ﬀering from want of employment. And now let me prove the truth of my assertion, that the preservation of game is very injurious to the agricultural labourer, as in the @ﬁrst place it raises the price of his food. I have before expressed my opinion that whatever bene@ﬁt might occur to the nation from the free trade in corn, it would not prove of advantage to the agricultural labourer, as with the permanent fall of the price of corn his wages would be lowered in proportion. But if corn could be ren-dered cheaper, and the English farmer not lose by the 
 is @the madness of many @of the gain of @@a  THE YEAR. ANOTHER year is past, and neither has England reple- nished her renown, nor t@he world obtained its@ repose. The spirit of freedom@, which nations conspired to crush in France, and which converted itself @ﬁrst into a spirit of horror and next into a spirit of vengeance, has long become the very soul of a tyrannical ambi- tion -an awful proof how easily obstructed virtue is chang@ed into the mischievous passions, and how fear- fully these passions grow powerful from grati@ﬁcation. @@The greatest misfortune of the age is, that the causes which @ﬁrst gave opportunity to the rising ambition of France are still existing in the full facility of their corruption to make way for it and if we just cast our eyes from one nation to another, we shall behold the same host of feeble princes@, corrupt  subjects, that ha@ve d@one so much for the great ene@my, and that will do still more, until some of his opposers shall begin the great work of self‐reforma- tion, until resou@rces are cleared from the obstructions of the interested, and councils from the corruptions of the place‐hunting. The @ﬁrst object of interest in the retrospec@t of the year is Spain. There our hopes were destined to brighten beyond any former promise, a@nd there to be darkened beyond recovery by the very holders of the sunshine. It is certain that we have been grossly de- ceived in the patriotism of Spaniards, and even had we not been de@rived, we have pursue@d casures, or ra- ther have exhibited a want of pursuit, which was su@ﬃ- cient to betray the best cause in the world. We he- sitate, our enemies determine we delay and make @ﬂourishes about the edges, they dash to the heart of @things lastly, we are hereties, and they tell the Spa- niards they are Papists, and we shall soon hear how @@much this single distinction has atchieved for our ene- mies and ruined for us. Of all corruptions, a corruptpt superstition is the most inimical to political good for men who are slaves to shadows will be slaves to any thing. The chance of Spain is gone, and England has now no chance remaining but that of sound reforma- tion, of stripping it's constitution of its gewgaws and gilt fetters, and restoring it to that vigorous and naked truth, in which its faculties shall be refreshed, its arm @unshackled, its heart unrepressed, and it shall bound forth, like the ancient young warrior out of his bath, to beat down a host of invading enemies. The  from a frightened ally, has become a fond slave of the Frenchman.  - and he cometh.@@ He says, Go, - and he goeth. This stupid Rus- sian does not see that he is a mere tool of France, even in his war with Sweden and that  that war is at@ once sowing discord all over the North, and weakening the‐Powers who ought to be most united in strength. He thinks, perhaps, that he has gained Finland -as if a slave of France had any possessions of its own ! The  SWEDEN, though as superior  as manhood to@ childhood, has talked in too high a tone, and relied@ too much upon English expeditions, to give us any great idea of his good sense. What he has lost to Russia, @he will never re- cover  prevent it, were it only to mortify a young King who has opposed him. In his unequal contest with Russia, a mortal blow has been gi@@ven to his in@ﬂuence in Europe and Sweden will be another proof how Iittle real strength there is in a @mry monarchy, when the ruler is not a man of genius. The Great GUSTAVUS made Sweden pow- erful, as the Great FREPERICK made Prussia@@ but what@ are Sweden and Prussia without a @@Great  TAV@US and a Great he latter country, we see, has become a mere house of call for  soldiers and politicians and the poor fe@eble King, who could keep neither his word with us, or the secret of his country's weakness from France, has at last nothing to keep at all. Austria @is thus surrounded by t@he vassals of her greatest enemy. She cannot move against France, and yet every delay brings her nearer to bondage@@ for there is little doubt, if Spain becomes entirely French, tha@t he could overwhelm her in an instant, unless a new tone has been given to the Austrian military @cha- racter, a circumstance that is rarely compassed by one man or by the most ardent desire of military revenge, unless the civil character of the state has been altered before it. The petty states of Germany would attack the Emperor FRANCIS from fear of BONAPARTE, and the more important ones, which have latel@y become monarchies, from ambition. BAVARIA would have a double motive the pride@ of her new greatness, and the old hereditary jealousy against the House of AUS- TRIA, which has deprived her so often of th@@e 
FOR RIO DE JANEIRO, T@he @ﬁne new Coppered Ship FALCON, WM.  Will positively sail the @ﬁrst week in February, two-thirds of the Cargo being already engaged. Has excellent Accom- modation for Passengers. For Freight and Passage apply to Mr. JAS. HARTLEY, Of Rio de Janeiro, at Wake@ﬁeld. EDW. THOMPSON, or@@ THOS. WHARTON, Hull. Hull, Jan. 1, 1827. Household Furniture, Glass and China, @c. c.ll. HULL ESTATE EXCHANGE, REGISTER, AUCTION OFFICE, 29, Silver-Street, Hull. T HIS spacious Room, adapted, by its central situation, for the purposes of SALE and EXCHANGE of LAND and HOUSES, will be Opened for the use of Proprietors, Solici- tors, and Agents of Estates, and the Public, on TUESDAY, January 1st, 1828, upon the principle of the  in London, having similar internal arrangements for the Ex- hibition of Advertisements, Maps, and Plans, for Public In- spection @@to which O@ﬀicial Attendance will be given, from Ten in the Morning until Four in the A@fternoon, not only to promote, by attractive power, Investments of Capital and the Transfer of Property, but to render, by the same auxiliary aid, equal facilities in the Occupation and Letting of Estates between Landlord and Tenant. Prospectuses may be had at the O@ﬀice of Mr. Angell, Manager and Auctioneer. HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, @c. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY HENDRY@@@ HYDE, By Order of the Assignees of Mr. Edward Johns@@, No. 2, Cent-per-Cent-Street, Hull, On Monday, the 7th Day of January, 1828, A LL the Neat and Valuable HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, comprising good Mahogany Chairs Dining, Card and other Tables Mahogany Four Post and Tent Bedsteads and Hangings Feather Beds, Mattresses and Blankets Chests of Drawers, Washstands, and Chamber Chairs Kidderminster and Scotch Carpets Fenders and Fire Irons set of Tea China, Blue Printed Dinner Service, sundry Glass, a few Lots of Plate, Linen and Books, with Kitchen Articles, c. Also, a PEW in St. John's Church, No. 102, in the Steeple Gallery and a TICKET in the Lyceum Reading Koom. VALUABLE WAREHOUSES, MALT@-KILN, c. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY HENDRY @@@HYDE, @@@@By Order of the Assignees of Thomas Williamson, a Bankrupt, At the George Inn, in Whitefriargate, Hull, on Monday the 1@@4th January, 1828, at Four o'Clock in the Afternoon, T WO spacious, commodious, and newly-erected WARE- HOUSES, and a MALT-KILN, situate on the East Side of Lime-street, in the Groves, near Hull, and adjoining a Brewery there, known by the name of Williamson's Brewery. Also, a Plot of GROUND, fronting Lime-street aforesaid, and two other Carriage Roads, now used as a Garden, and adjoining the said Warehouses and Malt Kiln. For particulars apply to the Auctioneers, or to Mr. J. C. Richardson, or Mr. Dryden, Solicitors, Hull. BUILDING @@@GARDEN GROUND. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY J. KIRKUS, At the House of Mr. Wm. Allison, Angel Inn, Cottingham, on Wednesday, January 16th, 1828, at Four o'Clock in the Afternoon, on such Conditions as shall be then and there produced,@ S EVEN Acres of Rich Grass GROUND, situate in the most central and pleasant part of Cottingham, being part of the Estate belonging to the late Nicholas Sykes, Esq. It is divided into Lots to suit Purchasers 5 Lots are Freehold, 11 Copyhold, in the Manor of Cottingham Powis, @ﬁne small and certain and 3 in the Manor of Cottingham Rectory. Further Particulars may be known, and a Plan of the Estate seen, on application to T. Stather, Academy, Cotting- ham or to the Auctioneer, No. 16, Humber Dock Walls, Hull. Cottingham, December 29, 1827. MAHOGANY AND LOGWOOD TO BE SOLD BY PUBLIC AUCTION, On Wednesday, the 16th January, 1828, on the Humber Dock Quay, T HE Entire CARGO of the  Whit@ﬁeld, Master, from Honduras, consisting of about 280 Logs MAHOGANY, and 45 Tons LOGWOOD. Catalogues may be had ten days previous to the Sale, by applying to RICHD. TOTTIE, the Importer or to HENDRY HYDE, Auctioneers. Hull, Dec. 13, 1827. SPANISH AND AFRICAN MAHOGANY. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY THOS. STANILAND, On the Dock C@ompany's Ground on the East Side of the Humber Dock, Hull, on Wednesday the 16th of January, 1828, immediately after the Sale of the Honduras Wood, S IXTY-THREE very choice Spanish MAHOGANY LOGS, and Five excellent African DITTO. For Particulars and Catalogues apply to the Auctioneer. INDIA SILK HANDKERCHIEFS. F ORTY Pieces of BANDANAS, of good patterns and qua- lity, for Sale by Private Contract at Mr. Stamp's Rooms, Excise-O@ﬀice Buildings. Hull, Dec. 29, 1827. SEVILLE CHINA ORANGES.nt. W OOLL@EN NETTING, to Preserve FRUIT TREES from the  Manufactured and Sold by James Slater, Yeadon, near Leeds. All Letters will be punctually attended to. SHIP-OWNERS' SOCIETY. T@  the 1st January, 1828, in his Great Room, 29, Silver-Street, Hull, at Eleven o'Clock, S UNDRY choice well-made Articles of New and Second- Hand HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, removed for the con- venience of Sale, consisting of an excellent Grecian Rosewood Card Table, on four Claws and Lion Castors, neatly Pannelled with Brass Lines a Mahogany Grecian Sofa, in Satin Hair Cloth two Tent Bedsteads an excellent Two-Drawer Dress- ing Glass a pair Mahogany Pillar and Claw Tables a pair Card Tables Glass-cut Lustres, ditto Decanters, and an elegant Tea and Co@ﬀee Service of China, and sundry other Articles. Also, a dozen pieces of IRISH LINEN, of excellent quality, @ﬁt for Country Trade and Twenty Boxes of St. MICHAEL's ORANGES. THE INDUSTRY SLOOP, 55 Tons Burthen. TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, BY MR. ANGELL, On Saturday the 5th January 1828, at Two o'clock, at Henry Hilkin's, Full Measure, 8, High-Street, A LL that good Sloop the INDUSTRY, well known in the River Trade between Hull, She@ﬀield, Doncaster, c. with all her Standing and Running Rigging, Sails, Anchors, Cables, Boat, and every other Stores necessary for Navigating the Rivers. This Ves- sel has lately undergone a thorough repair, and will be Sold, together with all Stores, in one Lot. She is now lying in the Old Dock Basin, and may be viewed on application to the Owner on board John Ella , or at the Auctioneer's O@ﬀice, 29, Silver-Street, Hull.  of SHIP-OWNERS will be held in the Guildhall, on Wednesday the 9th of January next, at Eleven o'Clock, to audit the Accounts of the Society, and to @ﬁll up vacancies in the Committee, when the Members, and all Ship-Owners, are requested to attend. JAMES KIERO WATSON, Chairman of the Committee. The Members of the Society will DINE together in the Afternoon of the same Day, and such Merchants and Ship- Owners as intend to favour them with their company, are requested to leave their names with the Secretary, or at the Bar of the Kingston Hotel, on or before Saturday the 5th @@@January. Hull, Dec. 28, 1827. Desirable Building- Ground in Drypool. ON SALE BY PRIVATE CONTRACT, T HE remaining very desirable Lots of BUILDING GROUND, situate in the newly formed Street called Popple-Street, Drypool. This situation is likely to become very advantageous from the intended New Road to Hedon passing through Popple- street. For particulars apply at the O@ﬀice of Mr. Dryden, Solicitor, Hull. Hull. Dec. 21,  150 Chests and 50 Boxes, are on SALE at 40s. per Chest, and 21s. per Box. Ar this Fruit is in @ﬁne condition, and of good quality, an early application is desirable. F. STAMP. Excise-O@ﬀice Buildings, Hull, Dec. 31, 1827. COLONIAL BRANDY. T HIS Article, which @has justly been considered the nearest to French Brandy of any distilled in this Country, is now on Sale at this place. It is not made from Corn, but distilled over again from Colonial Spirits, and such is its near resemblance to the best Cognac, that even Dealers in the latter have been unable to distinguish between them. It is Sold in quantities not less than Two Gallons, at 16s. 6d. Gallon, Money, by Mr. Francis Hall, No. 5, North Walls and by F. Sta@mp, Auctioneer, at the Excise-O@ﬀice Buildings. N.B. Considerable allowance to Buyers of large quantities. @@ TO CABINET-MAKERS, c. I N the course of the present Month, of which due notice will be given, Mr. W. Pearce will submit to AUCTION, at his Sale-Room, No. 40, Whitefriargate, an extensive and valuable Stock of ROSE and ZEBRA WOOD, in Planks, Spanish and Honduras Mahogany VENEERS, of the @ﬁnest quality, Figure, Mottle, and Colour, which will be put up in Lots suited to the Trade. N. B. Approved Bills at four Months' date will be taken in payment. @W  in the. COUNTY of YORK.@@@@ TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION, At the Kingston-@HoteI, late Dog and Duck, Scale-Lane, in the Town of Kingston-upon-@Hull, on Tuesday, the 8th Day of January, 1828, at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon, in the following or such other Lots, and subject to such Conditions of Sale, us shall be then and there determined upon, if not sooner disposed of by Private Contract, of which due notice will be given,@ T HE following very Valuable and desirable Freehold and Copyhold ESTATES, most pleasantly situated in or near the Market Town of South Cave, and the Villages of Ellerker and Brom@ﬂeet, in the East Riding of the County of York, consisting of and containing by a@ recent survey, the following quantities -viz. SOUTH CAVE. LOT 1.-A well-built MESSUAGE or Dwelling-House@ with the Homestead and Garth behind the same, near and on the West side of the Parish Church of South Cave, containing 1A. 2R. 32P. LOT 2.-One Close of Arable LAND, most pleasantly situated on the North side of and fronting to the High Road leading from South Cave to Beverley, called the Little Wold, or East Field, and containing 13A. 1R. 20P. LOT 3.-Two Closes of Rich old Swarth LAND, adjoining each other, in the Ru@ﬀham Field, on the South side of the Ru@@ﬀham Road the one containing 9A. 1R. 38P., and the other 6A. 29P., with the Stable at the South end of one of the said Closes, and an excellent healthy and very thriving Plantation at the East and West corners or angles of the North end of the other of the said Closes, and respectively containing 15A. 3R. 15P. LOT 4.-One other Close of Rich Pasture LAND, in Ruﬀ- ham Field, at the South end of Lot 3, but adjoining to and fronting the Ings Road, with a beautiful, healthy, and well thriving Plantation, at the East corner or angle thereof, next to and fronting the Ings Road, and a certain other Road lead- ing to the Ru@@ﬀham Road, and containing 12A. 1R. 12P. LOT 5.-One other Close of Arable LAND, adjoining the Ings Road in part, and the Sands Road in other part, called the Ings and Sand, and containing 14A. 22P. LOT 6.-One other Close of Swarth LAND, on the South side of and fronting to the Road leading from the West end of South Cave, to a certain Road called Wallingfen Road, also called the Ings, and containing 4A. 2R. 27P. LOT 7.-Two other Closes of Arable and Pasture LAND, adjoining each other, on the South side of and fronting to New Field Road, the one containing 6A. 2R. 13P., and the other 7A. 3P. and called the New Field Closes, containing together 13A. 2R. 16P. LOT 8.-One other Close of Swarth LAND, called Walling- fen Close, on the North side of a certain private Road which separates this Lot from the following Lot, and containing 4A. 1R. 13P. LOT 9.-One other Close of old Swarth LAND, also called Wallingfen Close, on the South side of the said last mentioned private Road, separating this from the preceding Lot, and containing 7A. 23P. ELLERKER. LOT 10.-All that COTTAGE, with the Barn, Yard, and Garden, together with the Paddock, Dove Cotes, and Planta- tion behind the same, on the South side of and fronting the Town street of Ellerker, at the North end thereof, and fronting Road leading from Ellerker to Brantingham, at the South end thereof, now in the occupation of William Wriggles- worth, and containing together 3A. 1R. 36P. LOT 11.-All that COTTAGE, with the Barn and Garden thereto adjoining and belonging, fronting the Town street on the North, now in the occupation of W. I'Anson, and con- taining 29P. LOT 12.-One other Close of Arable LAND, near to and on the West side of the Sands Road, called Claverham, and containing 4A. 32P. LOT 13.-One other Close of Arable LAND, at the South West end of the Sands Road called the Clunkers, including the Road on the East side thereof, a@nd the Plantation at the South end thereof, and containing 10A. 2R. 23P. LOT 14.-One other Close of Arable LAND, called Gare Butts, on the West side of and fronting the Turnpike Road leading from Brough to South Cave on the East, and the High Road leading from Brantingham to Ellerker on the North, and containing 4A. 2R. 30P. BROMFLEET. LOT 15.-Two other Closes of Arable LAND, called Brom- ﬂeet Closes, adjoining each other, extending from the River Humber in a Northerly direction to Brom@ﬂeet Beck, the one containing 5A. 3R. 25P., and the other 10A. 2B. 22P. and con- taining together 16A. 3R. 22P. Be the same several quantities more or less. The whole of the Estates are Freehold, excepting Lots 2, 5, and 7, and 1A. 1R. 7P. of Lot 4, which are Copyhold of the Manor of Fax@ﬂeet in South Cave, and are now in the occupa- tion of Mr. Wilkinson Ayre, the owner. Part of the Purchase Money may remain on Mortgage. John Tindale, the occupier of Lot 1, will shew the Premises and for further Particulars, apply to Mr. Wilkinson Ayre, North Ferriby or to Mr. Wm. Walmsley, Solicitor, No. 4, Parliament-Street, Hull or Messrs. Walmsley Burland, Solicitors, South Cave. PHOENIX FIRE-OFFICE, Established 1782. T HE Board of Directors of this O@ﬀice do hereby give Notice, that they have Reduced the Premium upon Country In- surances, with certain exceptions and that the same will henceforward be charged only as follows, viz. 1@st Class-1s. 6d. per Cent. 2nd Class -2s. 6d. per Cent. 3rd Class-4s. 6d. per Cent. being, upon the greater portion of Country Insurances, an abatement of 25 per Cent, per Annum. Renewal Receipts for Policies falling due at Christmas are now in the hands of the several Agents, The Hope Fire Insurance Company, the Eagle Fire Insur- ance Company, the Surry and Sussex, the Beacon, the British Commercial, and AEgis Insurance Companies having all de- clined business, Policies of those O@ﬀices amounting to £300 and upwards, will be accepted by this Company, without any charge of Stamps. The Agents for this Company, for the County of York, are Mr. JOHN HILL, 18, Parliament-street, Hull.  B. Agents are wanted in the other Market Towns of this County. Academy, Bourne-Street, French's-Gardens. WILLIAM HOBSON M OST respectfully begs leave to inform his Friends and the Public in general, that he has taken and entered upon the Academy, situate in Milto@n's-Square, Bourne-Street, which has been occupied for the last twenty years by Mr. Revell, where he intends teaching Reading Grammaticallylly an expeditious System of Writing a Masterly current Hand together with Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Mensuration, Draw- ing, Stenography, @@c. in all their various branches. He also embraces this opportunity of assuring those Friends who may place their Children under his care, that the same line of conduct, and a similar method of Tuition to that which secured to his late friend, Mr. Wm. Annison, whose School, during the whole of Mr. A.'s last illness, he so satis- factorily conducted, such a distinguished share of public favour, will be unceasingly employed for the improvement and durable advantage of his Pupils. Bourne-street, January 1, 1828. @☞ The Academy will open for the reception of Day and Evening Scholars on the 7th day of January instant. Terms, c. may be known on application at the Academy, or at No. 2, Somer's Town, Holderness Road. No Entrance charges required.  grateful thanks to his Friends and@@ Patrons for past favours, and begs to inform them, that he continues Painting PORTRAITS, from Five to Twenty- ﬁve Guineas each and respectfully invites an inspection, at his Lodgings, 14, Carlisle-Street, or at T. Topping's, the Hull Packet and Humber Mercury O@ﬀice, 51, Lowgate, Hull. D. BREGGAZZI, A  Teacher of Italian @@Drawing, R ETURNS his most grateful thanks to the Ladies and Gentlemen of Hull, Beverley, and Hedon, for the kind patronage received, and begs to inform them that every exer- tion on @his part shall be used to merit a continuance of their kind support. N. B. PORTRAITS Painted in various Styles and Sizes. Terms for Portraits and Teaching, at his Residence, No. 2, Carlisle-Street.  of Church- Lane, High-Street. W HARRISON, impressed with feelings of gratitude, desires to inform his Friends and the Public, that his Establishment will be Re-opened for the reception of Youth of both Sexes, on Monday, 7th January, 1828. The System of Teaching pursued in this School has been proved by practical demonstration founded on Philosophical Principles to be the most eligible-and in the Mercantile. Nautical, and Mechanical departments, its results have been highly satisfactory. N. B. Evening Instructions, in the several branches, during the Winter months, from Six to Eight o'Clock.@@@@ GRAMMAR SCHOOL, HULL@@ REV. W. WILSON, HEAD MASTER. E VERY branch of Instruction Classical, Mathematical, and Commercial , necessary for Business or the Profes- sions, is taught in this School, on a Plan that possesses great facility,-and aims at a sound and useful Education. Eight Young Gentlemen are received by the Head Master as Boarders, who are treated in all respects as Members of the Family. Terms, c. may be learned on application. The School re-opens January 16, 1828. @@@THE SCHOOL IN CHARLES.STREET, HULL, CONDUCTED BY THE REV. J. THOMPSON, And two Assistants, W ILL be Re-opened on the 14th Instant.-The course of Instruction includes the English, Latin, and Greek Languages Writing and Arithmetic Merchants' Accompts the various Branches of the Mathematics, History, Geography, with the Use of the Globes, @c. 41, George-street, Jan. 1, 1828. @@@KING EDWARD'S GRAMMAR SCHOOL, LOUTH. THE REV. T. A. DALE, B.A. Second Master in the above School, R ESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and the Public, that, after the Christmas Vacation, he will be able to accommodate a limited number of Young Gentlemen as Parlour Boarders, who would be under his immediate care, and who, in addition to the course of Education established in the School, may have the advantage of learning the French and Italian Languages. His Pupils are treated as part of his own Family, and the greatest attention is paid to their health and morals, and every facility given to promote their im- provement. Terms may be known on application to the Rev. T. A. Dale, to Messrs. Jacksons, Booksellers, Louth, or to Mr. T. Topping, Printer, Hull. Westgate, Louth, Dec. 28, 1827. UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF THE HULL CHORAL SOCIETY. M ISS BR@ADBURY has the honour most respectfully to inform her Friends and the Public, that her BENEFIT CONCERT is @ﬁxed for Wednesday, January 2nd, 1828, in the Choral Society's Room, Mytongate, when she humbly solicits their kind support. On this occasion, Miss B, will have the assistance of Mr. TIRPIN  E@LLIS, from the York and Leeds Concerts, and also of a YOUNG LADY, Pupil to J. Watson, Esq. of Covent-Garden Theatre. Leader of the  3s. each, to be had of Miss Bradbury, No. 8, Charter-House-Lane, and of T. Topping, Lowgate. The Performance to commence at Seven o'Clock. COURSE OP SIX LECTURES ON ELOCUTION, Under the Patronage of the Literary and Philosophical Society. M R. CALVERT begs to announce, under the above sanction, a Course of Six Lectures on ELOCUTION, These Lectures, to be delivered in the Exchange Room, will commence on the Evening of Saturday, January 12th, and proceed Wednesdays and Saturdays in the following order Lecture the First-On the Nature of the Art. -Second-On its Importance. -Third-On the Oratory of the Ancients. -Fourth-On Modern Oratory. Fifth and Sixth-On the Means of Improvement in the Art. Tickets for the Course, 10s. 6d.-for the Single Lecture. 2s. 6d.-of Mr. Calvert, Mr. Benson's, South-End and of the Booksellers. CHARLES MAY, CONFECTIONER AND FRUITERER, 29,  R ETURNS his grateful thanks to the Inhabitants of Hull, Beverley, and their Vicinities, for their kind favours, and hopes to merit a future continuance. C. M. begs to inform his Friends, that he has superior and richly-ornamented Christmas Cakes, of various sizes, for the Twelfth Night also, rich Bride Cakes, of the best quality, made to order Com@ﬁts, and a general variety of Fancy Lozenges preserved West India Ginger, and other Fruits, Creams, Jellies, and other varieties to furnish the Table. Pickles, and rich Sauces, from the @ﬁrst Houses in London Mock Turtle, and other Soups. B. BROOKS, Golden Boy@ Carver, Gilder, and Plate Glass Works Depot, 16, Whitefriargate, Hull, M OST respectfully renews his solicitations to the Nobility, Gentry, and the Public in general, for Orders in LOOKING GLASSES of all dimensions, in Chimney, Pier, and Toilette of the most fashionable descrip- tions, suitable for the Drawing, Dining-Room, or Boudoir, and as Cheap as at the Plate Glass Works. French Ornamental Frames of all prices, and Artists sup- plied with the best London Bladder COLOURS, Canvass, Brushes, c. with every Material for Oil Painting.@@@ L. LYON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL LACE-MANUFACTURER, 58, LOWGATE, S ENSIBLE of the liberal and distinguished Patronage con-@ ferred on him by the Ladies of Hull, Beverley, and their Vicinities, since his co@mme@ncement, begs to tender his grate- ful acknowledgments, and@ to announce that he has just received from his Manufactory a new and fashionable Assort- ment of Wide and Narrow LACES, in Brussels, Valenciennes, Grecian, and Barege Patterns, and a variety of Dress Articles, to which he respectfully solicits their inspection. Laces made to Pattern, Cleaned, and Repaired. Licensed agreeably to Act of Parliament.@@ T HE Public are respectfully informed, that by arrange- ments recently made, they may be supplied with CINDERS, of excellent quality, at 16s. per Dozen, delivered in any part of Hull. This description of Fuel is particularly recommended for consumption in Stoves of Churches, Chapels, or Shops, being extremely durable, and entirely free from Smoke. Orders by Post, or otherwise, promptly attended to, ad- dressed to the British Gas Light Company, Bank Side, Scul- coates. COAL TAR as usual, in any quantity. December 31, 1827.@@ OTTRINGHAM DRAINAGE. N OTICE is hereby given, that there will be a MEETING of the Proprietors of Lands in this Drainage, being Commissioners, at the House of Benjamin Fligg, Innholder, in Ottringham, on Wednesday, the 9th Day of January next, at Twelve o'Clock.k. By Order, HENRY JOHN SHEPHERD. Beverley, Dec. 26, 1827.  C ONTINUES his successful and approved method of @ﬁxing ARTIFICIAL TEETH, and all Operations in Dental Surgery, at No. 27, Humber-Street, Hull. An APPRENTICE Wanted. @@BAZAAR. T HE BAZAAR for the SCULCOATES NATIONAL and INFANTS' SCHOOL, will Open on TUESDAY, the 8th of January, 1828. Articles may be sent directed to the Ladies of the Com mittee, to the care of Mr. Stringfellow, Assembly-Rooms, North-Street, after the 2nd of the Month. Hull, Dec. 28, 1827. T. READ, MYTONGATE, HULL, M ANUFACTURER of HOSIERY, and Wholesale Dealer in small Wares. N. B. Country Dealers supplied on the lowest terms. Knitting Cotton, Worsted, Angola, and Lamb's Wool, Yarn, Sewing Cotton, in Ball and Skeins, @c. @c. TO PRINTERS. TO BE SOLD, A Very Excellent CLYMER's PATENT COLUMBIAN PRESS, Double Crown-size of Plattin, 33 inches by 22½. It@ has been in use seven Weeks, and is consequently better than new. The only reason for parting with the Press is, that it may be replaced by a larger one by the same Maker, in order to increase the Size of The Hull Packet and Humber Mercury. Also, a DOUBLE CROWN PRESS, by STAFFORD, to be disposed of. @@☞ Letters, post-paid, to T. Topping, Hull@@@@. RICHARD BOYLE SON, Ship Chandlers, @c. B EG to make known to their Friends and the Public ge- nerally, that their Agency with Messrs. R. Flinn Co. for the Sale of their Chain Cables, has ceased and, at the same time, to inform them, that they have now made arrange- ments with Messrs. WM. HAWKS, sen. CO. of Gateshead, and intend keeping, in addition to the large Stock of Anchors of their Manufacture, a large and well-assorted Stock of their tested CHAIN CABLES, KEDGES, WINDLASS WHEELS, HAWSE-PIPES, @c. @c. constantly on hand, which, for quality of Iron, and superiority of Workmanship, has so long given that House such a decided preference in the North. R BOYLE and SON trust, by strict attention, that they will still continue to receive from their Friends that liberal sup- port they have hitherto experienced, and for which they beg to return them their most sincere thanks. N.B. A large Stock of Second-hand Anchors, which can, with con@ﬁdence, be recommended. North Side Old Dock, Hull, December 10, 1827. R. PEARSON B EGS to o@ﬀer his unfeigned thanks to his Nautical Friends and the Public, for the liberal support he has received during the time he has been in Business, and respectfully in- forms them that he has been appointed Agent for the Sale of Messrs. FLINN and Co.'s CHAIN CABLES, ANCHORS, @c. which have long held a precedency over any other House, in point of quality and workmanship, assuring those Friends who may favour him with t@heir commands, they shall have a genuine Article, and on the lowest terms, with every other Article connected with the Trade. Hull, Dec. 22, 1827. To Merchants, Ship Owners, Ship Builders, and the Public. W. POWER B EGS to solicit the attention of a liberal Public to the great advantage he holds out to them of making the Purchase of CHAIN CABLES at Home, instead of circulating their Capital in a Distant part of the Kingdom, from which they derive little or no advantage, and more especially so, will it appear to every re@ﬂecting mind, when they consider the advantage of encouraging the employment of the Poor around our own District, and establishing Manufactories for articles that are wanted and consumed in that District. W. P. will engage to deliver to all those who favour him with their Orders as good an article in Chain Cables, in every respect as to Price, Quality, and Make, as can be bad from either the North or Southern parts of the Kingdom, with the extra-advantage of the Purchaser seeing them Proved by the Hydraulic Machine, and being at liberty to visit the Manu- factory and inspect the quality of the iron of which the Chain is made. W. Power returns his sincere thanks for the liberal support he has received, and assures his Friends and the Public that nothing shall be wanting on his part to merit a continuance of their patronage. Cable Wharf, Wincolmlee, Hull, Dec. 14, 1827. N. B. W. P. is determined to supply his Friends with all kinds of Chain-Iron, Nails, c. on the lowest terms.  Boarding-School will be Re-opened on Tuesday, January 15t@h, 1828. December 27,1827@@@@. Mr. HAYES, SURGEON,@@ Is in immediate want of an APPRENTICE. 16, Savile-street, Hull. J. B.  Corner of Osborne-Street, Waterhouse- Lane, Hull, Is in want of an APPRENTICE. FOUND STRAYING, A Handsome BITCH the Loser may have her by describing her, and pay- ing expenses.-Apply at the Hull Packet and Humber Mercury  Corn Market, Hull, the 28th Dec. 1827. Meeting of the Subscribers and Friends of the New Corn Market, it was resolved to celebrate the opening of the Building for Public Business by a DINNER, at the  on this day TUESDAY, 1st January, 1828, at Five o'Clock, and such Subscribers and Friends to the Institution as intend to Dine, are respectfully requested to send in their names to the undermentioned Stewards, or the Bar of the Hotel. T. W. GLEADOW,W, T. HEWITT, JOHN   OLD CORN-EXCHANGE. T HE Proprietor returns his most sincere thanks to the Farmers, Cornfactors, Millers, and others frequenting this Establishment, for past favours at the same time he begs to inform them, that the Old Corn Exchange, in the Centre of the Market-Place, will continue Open for the despatch of Business every  from Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon until Half-past One in the Afternoon, on each of the said Days respectively, where every accommoda- tion will be rendered for their comfort and convenience, as formerly. Hull, Dec. 17th, 1827. WILLIAM SOULBY. CORN-EXCHANGE COFFEE-HOUSE, Market-Place. A MBROSE MELSON, with gratitude acknowledges the kind support he experienced from his Friends during his residence at the Ship Tavern, Lowgate, and also for the @ﬂattering encouragement he has received since his removal to the Corn-Exchange Co@ﬀee-House lately occupied by Mr. Soulby , and in soliciting a continuance, he assures them his best exertions s@hall be used to merit their favours. He begs to inform his Town and Country Friends, that his ORDINARY will be prepared on Tuesdays, at Half-past One, as usual and his chief study will @be to promote their com- fort and convenience, so as to ensure that patronage which was so liberally bestowed upon his predecessor. N.B. Choice WINES, SPIRITS, @c. London Daily and Hull Weekly Papers.ers. DURHAM OX, AND NEW CORN-EXCHANGE COFFEE-HOUSE, First House on the left in Blanket-Row, and within Fifty Yards of the Corn Market. J AMES BAINES, in soliciting a continuance of the favours of his Friends, begs to inform them, and those Gentle- men in particular who frequent the Corn Market, that he has provided Private Rooms for the transacting of Business and trusts, that the local situation of his House, together with his determination to make the comfort of his Friends his only aim, will ensure him their support. An ORDINARY on Tuesdays, at Half-past One. Hull, December 31,  under a Com- mission of Bankrupt, awarded and issued forth against THOMPSON CHAPMAN the Younger, late of Newcastle- upon-Tyne, Master Mariner, Dealer and Chapman, are re- quested to meet the Assignees of the said Bankrupt's Estate and E@ﬀects, on Saturday the 19th Day of January, 1828, at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon, at the King's Co@ﬀee-House, in the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, in order to assent to or dissent from the said Assignees compounding, submitting to arbitration, or otherwise adjusting and settling a claim by the said Assignees, on a certain Person to be named at the said Meetings, and on other Special A@ﬀairs. HAIRE, HOLDEN, GALLOWAY,  by GATES and COUPLAND, KESWICK, CUMBERLAND. T HESE superior Pencils have been so long in request amongst Artists, Draughtsmen, Engineers, and Men of Business, and have given such general satisfaction that it is unnecessary to enlarge upon their superior qualities. They are manufactured of various degrees of hardness and colour. They may now be had of T. Topping, Hull, and all the respect- able Booksellers in Hull, Beverley, and the principal Towns in England. Also, by the same Manufacturers, BLUE SLATE PENCILS for the use of Schools, in Cedar Cases, of a very superior quality. THEATHE-ROYAL, HULL. This Evening, TUESDAY, January 1, 1828, NATIVE LAND  WITH THE POOR SOLDIER.  On WEDNESDAY, January 2, The BENEFIT of Miss LOVE, and her last Night of Performance, H@ENRI QUATRE  Love. WITH MIDAS.  NOTICES TO CORRESPONDENTS. M. S. N.'s Stanzas are inadmissible. Extracts from the Journal of a Military O@ﬀicer, A Legend of Hol- derness, and A Primitive Phrenologist, are under consideration.@ awarded and issued forth against SHADRACH WRIDE, of the Town and County of the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, Merchant, are requested to meet the Assignees of the Estate and E@ﬀects of the said Bankrupt, on Wednesday the Second Day of January next, at One o'Clock in the Afternoon, at the Kingston Hotel, in Scale-Lane, in the said Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, to assent to or dissent from the said Assignees commencing and prosecuting a cer- tain Suit or Suits at Law or in Equity, for the recovery of part of the said Bankrupt's Estate, the object of which will be stated at such Meeting, and on other special A@ﬀairs. ALDERSON PHILLIPS. Hull, Dec. 10,1827. WRIDE'S AUDIT AND DIVIDEND. @@T HE Commissioners in a Commission of Bankrupt bearing date the 11th Day of February, 1826, awarded and issued forth against SHADRACH WRIDE, of the Town and County of the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull, Merchant, intend to meet on the Second Day of January next, at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon, at the Kingston Hotel, in the Town of Kingston-upon-Hull aforesaid, in order to Audit the Accounts of the Assignees of the Estate and E@ﬀects of the said Bank- rupt, under the said Commission and the said Commissioners also intend to meet on the same Day, at Twelve o'Clock at Noon, at the same place, to make a Dividend of the Estate and E@ﬀects of the said Bankrupt when and where the Cre- ditors who have not already proved their Debts, are to come prepared to prove the same, or they will be excluded the be- ne@ﬁt of the said Dividend. And all Claims not then proved ALDERSON PHILLIPS,  ASSIGNMENT.  Kingston-upon-Hull,  in Trust for Sale, for the bene@ﬁt of his Creditors. Notice is therefore hereby given, That the Assignment is left at our O@ﬀice for the inspection and signature of the Creditors and suc@h of them as shall not execute the same, or signify their consent in writing so to do, on or before the 21st day of February next, will be excluded the bene@ﬁt to arise therefrom. All Persons indebted to the said Thomas Smith, are re- quested to pay the amount of their respective Debts to us, without delay, otherwise actions at law will be commenced against them for the recovery thereof. By Order of the Assignees, FOSTERTER MILLER. 27, Bishop-Lane, Hull, 22@d Dec. 1827.  EXCHANGES. More business than usual was transacted in the Foreign Exchanges on Friday afternoon, and on much higher terms than on last post day the principal advance was in the Exchange on Paris, which was quoted from 25. 47@@½. to 25. 52@½. on Hamburgh from 36. 3@½. to 36. 4. and on Amster- dam, from 12. 1. to  Mercurp. HULL TUESDAY, JANUARY 1, 1828.  regret to inform our readers, that intelligence has been received in London, through the medium of the French newspapers, of a most disastrous event-no less than the total destruction of the Greek Fleet, o@ﬀ the Island of Scio, by the French Admiral DE RIGNY. No details have arrived connected with this calamitous piece of news, and we are, moreover, informed by some of the metropolitan prints, that up to a late hour on Saturday evening, Government had received no advices upon the subject, Still we fear there is little room to indulge a hope that such an event has not taken place or at least@ if not totally destroyed, that the @ﬂeet of the unfortunate Greeks has actually been engaged in a ruinous con@ﬂict with the vessels under the command of the Frenc@h Admiral.-It is known that the Allies had expressed their determination to compel the observance of the armistice, as well on the part of the Greeks, as of their Turkish opponents it is also known that DE RIGNY had sailed in the direction of Scio, to which place the Greek naval force had proceeded for the purpose of carrying on o@ﬀensive operations against the Turks. We have no reason to doubt that the interference of the Allies would be prompt and decisive to force the Greeks to obey the in- junction of the 24th October, and to desist from hostilities till the result of the pending negociations was known. Unless the Allies acted thus, the Sultan would have every reason to charge them with duplicity, and with being partizans of his rebellious subjects, under pretence of o@ﬀering their mediation to restore peace and tranquillity. But what infatuation,
 WANTED-A WIFE. I'VE sought all England through and through, @'Mo@ng dames of hig@h  seen a hundred pretty maids, @@But not one made for me@ @@! @M Sera@phina was a nymph I thought @beyo@nd compare Alack ! one day-unseen-I heard My Seraphina swear ! I'd thrown sheep's eyes at her, because I took her for a lamb @Tis true, I liked her breeding well, But did'nt like her d-! I quitted her for Fanny Bloom,@@ How sweetly she could sing ! But she had two strings to her bow, An@d two beaux to her string ! Next blue‐eyed Emily I sought, With @ﬂaxen tresses @ﬂowing Yet oh ! I saw those lovely eyes In angry passion glowing. She struck her maid-she might strike me My visits thence @did cease Quoth I- It is not every hand @That bears the palm of peace. An angel, Isabel they called @@'Tis true she is a bell, Who hath a clapper rings for aye, That soon would ring my knell ! Rich widows, too, I've tried in vain, Relicts of golden calves ! They all were wives of honest men, But not their better halves ! There was Widow Warren, fair to view, Of presence quite commanding But oh ! she had a wooden leg, And a weakly understanding ! A bachelor I am, my friends may laugh, No Benedict  Free as the air I'll live and die, If I leave no heir behind me ! I'm not of those the Fancy styled, Whom loves to sing So my matches and engagements shall @Be all without the ring@  the Hull Packet and @Humber Mercury. SIR-@When any new system or science comes out into the wor@d, w@ith high pretensions to importance and utility, unless it be supported by facts, observation, or experiment, it deserves only to be ridiculed and then to be forgotten. But when this species of evidence is gra- tuitously adduced in support of the principles it seeks to establish @@and when the truth of those principles is feely and fairly staked upon the validity of this eviden@ce, then it becomesthe duty of every candid individual to examine impartially into the merits of the case as far as @his opportunities will allow him, and only to a@ﬀord his assent so far as it is borne out by substantial proofs. If the system that solicits that assent appear, after such an investigation, to be destitute alto- @gether of the evidence upon which its claims are professedly founded, or even if it appear to @be ill, or accidentally supported by it, then, of course, @he is perfectly justi@ﬁable, not only in withholding fro@m it his own individual support, but in endeavouring, by argument or ridicule, to prevent its gaining farther hold of the minds of others. There are some people who are ever crying out against innovation. Whenever a novel doctrine is presented to their notice, their antiquarian prejudices immediately take t@he alarm, and @they at once stigmatize it as absurd, without ever investigating the arguments by which it is supported, or t@he evidence upon which it rests. They tell us it carries falsehood on its very face, or it can never bene@ﬁt society, or it will corrupt the public morals, or it tends to materialism and thus @they presume to censure and condemn what @they know nothing at all about. I grant it is very necessary to exercise caution in examining the evidence of any new system, lest, by too hasty a proceedure, we should admit as valid evidence, what may be only the result of casual coincidence, or super@ﬁcial analogy but then it is equally necessary, on the other hand, that we take care not to reject a whole set of prin- ciples, on the ground of any apparent @disagreement that disagree- ment may be the mere modi@ﬁcation of circumstances, and that unfavourable result may be only a practical abuse for what established principle is there whose proofs are not, in some way or other, dependent upon circumstances and w@hat righteous doctrine is there, which has not, at some time or other, been prostituted to vicious ends? But I must come to t@he gist of my communication. Your corres- pondent T. R@. is truly in a deplorable situation, and every one of humane disposition must really pity him, and not him only, but his periwigged and phrenologized children. No one can wonder, poor fellow ! at his hostility to the science. It is certainly quite natural but still it is a sad pity he should have exposed his folly by publishing the @ﬂimsy and futile evidence o@n which that hostility rests for, Sir, @what does his communication prove ? Why, @ﬁrst, that T. R. is no Solomon, else he would never have married so hair‐brained a wench, for you may depend upon it, Phrenology only completed what had long been begun, and what, to a sagacious mind, must have been evident enough and, secondly, it furnishes a singular instance of the correctness of Phrenological observation. T. @R.'s wife was quite correct,@@ when s@he found, by t@he bumps on her husband's @he@ad, that he had no love for @her for nothing but a total want of a@ﬀection could have allowed him to hold up to public ridicule, the f@olly of one holding so tender a relationship as that of wife, and one whose very faults, by reason of that relationship, ought to be held sacred. What, Mr. E@ditor, has Phrenology to do wit@h the madness of one of its advocates, unless it can @be shown that that madness is its legitimate result ? Justice might as well be charged with falsehood, because a maniac takes upon him to w@ield a sword w@h@ich@le calls by @her sacred name, and with it to slay the innocent. I recommend T. R. to play no more upon the organs, for he produces nothing but discords there. But, after all, I really hope your correspondent is debtor to his i@magination for his facts. O ! that he would credit it with some of t@he circulating medium of the understanding. IF @he be married, I shall be exceedingly glad to receive an invitation to dine with him. I have no doubt I should presently add to t@he number of my friends, t@he livi@ng, if not Phrenol@ogical couple-Mr. and Mrs. T. R. But, Mr. Editor, my principal object in addressing @this letter to you, was neither to sympathise with your correspondent, nor to exp@iscate an invitation from hi@m @but to adduce some sound, phreno- logical facts-facts belonging to a species of evidence which has not hitherto, so far as I know, been much illustrated. I am a poor pedagogue, Sir, and a warm‐hearted advocate for Phrenology. You are aware that one of the advantages of t@he science is said to be, the facility it a@ﬀords to t@he right training of children, according to their most prominent developments. I shall brie@ﬂy illustrate t@he truth of this, by stating the advantages that have actually accrued from my adoption of Phrenological principles, and following their intimations with respect to the children under my care. It is said, the actions of children su@@ﬃciently denote what is their ruling faculty or predomi- nant disposition but I deny that this is t@he case, except in instances of very uncommon precocity. T@he practice in all schools @has been to adopt, from @ﬁrst to last, the same routine of tuition in all cases, without attempting to discover the particular bias of @the mind, and irrespec- tively of any diversity, even if it forced itself into view and parents @have seldom consulted any t@hing but their own whim, predilection, ambition, or caprice, in their children's subsequent pursuits. Thus the energies of numberless minds have been wasted on t@hings unbe@ﬁtting and inappropriate while, if due attention had been paid to t@he par- ticular character of t@heir developments, their minds mig@ht have risen to high eminence in some one particular department, and eﬀected, in that department, no one can calculate w@hat important and bene-@ ﬁcial results. On the principles of Phrenology, I have practised this mode of tuition@ and I feel it a duty thus publicly to record the suc- cesses, of which I gladly yield to Phrenology all t@he praise. Immediately on my becoming a conscientious disciple of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, I formed the idea@ of carrying t@he principles of t@he science into the management of my school. I re@ﬂected on the pro- priety of the measure for some time, during which my faith in Phrenology was d daily strengthening and, at length, I mentioned my view@s to t@he parents of t@he boys, and, w@ith their concurrence, deter- mined on making the experiment. Just before the intervention of t@he @holidays made a convenient pause in t@he then existing arrangements of t@he school, I set apart a day for examining @the heads of my boys on Phrenological principles. I did not think it necessary to turn barber, and s@have all the @hair o@ﬀ their heads, as did the deluded wife of your correspondent T. R. but I adopted t@he easier, and, for general purposes, the equally e@@ﬃcient mode of passing my hand over t@heir hairy scalps. I took dow@ t@he prominent Phreno- logical de@velopments of each, and during the vacation drew out an arrangement, by which the boys were to be placed in classes, and each class I named after the particular department of learning for which, according to my Phrenological observations, nature seemed more especially to have adapted the individuals who were to till its ranks. You may think, Sir, I was not a little anxious for @the result of t@he ex- perimen@t however, the holidays passed over, and the time for trying it arrived. I need not trouble you with t@he detail of every step in the progress of t@he experiment. Su@@ﬃce it to say, it was not long before I had indubitable testimony to t@he truth of Phrenological principles, and to the utility of t@he arrangements to which I had subjected my school. Each boy presently manifested a special aptness at receiving the particular instruction ofhis class, and rapidly rose to what would otherwise @have appeared precocious attainments in that department. Many of them have since left school but in the choice of their pur- suits, t@he character of their minds, and t@he discipline through which they had passed, were wisely consulted and their parents, without a single exception, have now the pleasure of witnessing their children's rapid and successful prosecution of t@heir respective callings and while they feel rationally assured t@hat present ap@pearances are the certain pledges of future eminence, @they gladly and gratefully acknow- ledge that to P@hrenology they are, and will be, indebted for it all. I would not, Mr. Editor, @have you or your readers@imagine, that under @the Phrenological arrangements of my school, all kinds of learning are @neglected by t@he boys, excepting @that branch to which t@he class they belong to is devoted-that w@ere as impolitic as it would be ridiculous. To the general branches of education su@@ﬃcient attention is paid, during certain hours of the day, to secure useful pro@ﬁciency in them while, to @the exercises of his class, during the remainder of the day , the attention of each boy is exclusively directed -thus the general purposes of education are secured, while the particular bias of the mind is consulted, and its character ultimately formed on t@he princi- ples of its original constitution. In my own family, the same course has been pursued, and with equal success Respecting those of @my children who are now in situations, I am constantly receiving t@he most gratifying testimonies of t@heir employers' approbation an@d those who are still under @my immediate care, are daily exhibiting the most pleasing proofs of the tr@uth of Phrenological science. I beg pardo@n, @Mr. Editor, for having trespassed so much upon your patience. My communication has extended much beyond my  the interesting nature of the subject to me, at  be an apology for me. I am, Sir, your obedient servant, Dec. 22, 1827. PETER  imaginations the following fro@m the She@@ﬃeld Courant of Saturday week. It is extracted from a very able paper on the Human Voice, read lately by Mr. Boult@bee, to t@he mem- bers of the She@@ﬃeld Literary and Philosophical Society. In addition to the elegance of style, by which this composition is distinguished, it contains some curious facts serving to ex- plain that hitherto mysterious faculty, Ventriloquism, an art whose exercise produced extraordinary results in ancient times, and has been t@he source of much amusement in our own enlightened days -Imitative v@oice in man, has frequently been cultivated with most astonishing success. We @ﬁnd persons capable of simulating the notes of birds, the sounds of animals, and even personating the voice of orators and public speakers. @@The following inanimate sounds @have been very closely 'm'tated. The noise produ@ced by sawing wood-by the uncorking of a bottle, and t@he decanting of its contents-t@he sound of air rushing into a room through a crevice or ot@her aperture-that of working a grind- stone, with t@he rough attrition of the steel upon it-and t@he various cha@nges caused by alteration of pressure, and many others. Persons who have exercised the art of imitation in one of its forms have been called ventriloquists, or belly‐speakers, from an idea once entertained t@hat t@he voice proceeded out of the stomac@h. Among the names of those celebrated for this art, we ﬁnd, in the 16th century, Louis Brabant, Valet de Chambre of Francis I, of France . Since his time, Baron Mengen, Henderson, Garbutt, Mat@hews, Alexandre, c. have distinguished themselves. T@heir most mysterious power is t@hat of deluding those they address into the belief that the sound comes from a point at a considerable distance from the person of t@he speaker. Of the @ﬁrst mentioned individual it is related, t@hat being denied the hand of a young w@oman of fortune and station, much above his own, by @her father, he renewed his addresses after the death of t@he latter and w@hen in t@he presence of the lady and her mother, imitated t@he deceased's voice, w@hich seemed to come from the ceiling of the apart- ment. With cries and groans @he imputed his aggravated tortures in purgatory to the refusal of @his daughter to Louis Brabant, and con- jured her, if e'er she did her poor father love,@@ to marry @@the said Louis forthwith which, in suitable horror, consternation, and @ﬁlial piety she did. It appears that there are several modes in which varieties of voice may be produced.-1st. By speaking during inspiration instead of, as usual, during expiration. The voice so produced is more feeble than ordinary for t@he ear does not directly receive the sonorous undula- tions as before and whilst we are looking w@hence  s@ou@nd comes the speak@er uses means to direct our attention@@-@2ndly. By speaking in a more grave or acute pitch than usual, by tightening or relaxing the v@ocal ligaments, and also by contracting t@he mouth in a greater or less degree, any motion in which it is necessary to avoid, and from practice a person may acquire t@he pow@er of producing all, except the labial articulations, without it and of these t@he F V and M may be imitated by the posterior parts of the mouth so that visible move- ment of t@he lips can be avoided by using words in w@@hich B and P do not occur.-3rdly. Sounds may be rendered much deeper, and appa- rently more distant, by depressing t@he larynx. T@he tongue, also, may be throw@ back with its points resting against its palate, so as to force the sonorous undulations, in a great measure, through t@he nose. -4t@hly. Great power in the muscles, and much @ﬂexibility in the larynx and organs of speech are requisite. In all cases it is necessary for the ventri@loquist to direct our w@illing imaginations. But however well formed the larynx may be for t@he production of variety in sound, and however perfectly this may be accompanied by @ﬂexibility of t@he organs of speech, t@he skilful imitator has much to learn. @He must be acquainted w@ith relative sounds for as t@he eye, by long practice only, is enabled correctly to judge of distance, in objects, from t@heir relative size-so does t@he ear, by continued use, become tutored to t@he strict nicety in sounds at various distances. Who, in his younger days, on @ﬁrst seeing represented, by a magic lantern, the little @ﬁgure rising into gigantic stature, has not felt dread at his apparent hasty approach ? A@nd who, on @ﬁrst looking through a telescope, @has not stretched forth his hand to touc@h t@he distant object ? And in maturer years, @has not the small @ﬂy, suddenly crossing our vision, appeared an enormous bird? Thus our mental scale of size and distance may, by various illusions, be made to deceive, so may w@e suppose the ear, equally nice in its judgment, liable to have that very nicety, which is the foundation of a mental scale of peculiar auditory impressions and distance of sound, also imposed upon, provided any art can discover and produce t@he requisite modi@ﬁcations. And herein consists t@he art and science of t@he ventriloquist for as the undulation in sound w@hich reaches our ears must necessarily vary w@ith the distance it @has come, and as at any one point such variation w@ill of itself be a speci@ﬁc sound, so t@he performer has to accommodate @his voice to that sound peculiar to t@he distance intended to be represented. Alexandre, who exhibited here some time ago, studied these peculiarities, by imitating a person's voice, as he spoke at intervals, receding above three hundred yards. He @has likewise sent a chimneysweeper up a chimney, with directions to speak down, at every two yards, until, by practice, @he could at length imitate the voice in its gradations so exactly, that persons in t@he room could not distinguish which was his, and which the boy's. But having acquired the power of producing the varieties of sound, something more is wanted to perfect the illusion. It is necessary that the performer should @ﬁx t@he attention of his hearers to some point or direction w@hence he intends the voice apparently to issue and this was done by Alexandre with admirable dexterity, as he alternately assumed t@he character of listener and speaker, as we particularly remarked, when t@he voice appeared to come from t@he chimney, a trunk, through t@he door, and from a room beneat@h by a trap‐door. It were needless to dilate upon those in@ﬁnite modi@ﬁcations of voice, which are connected with t@he social and intellectual character of man. The relations in which the members of a civilived and highly cultivated society stand to each other, are so numerous and diversi- ﬁed, @that it becomes no easy task to form a just estimate of t@he vocal organ. To w@hat various purposes, both useful and delightful, is it not subservient? It is at once t@he medium of conveying to our minds t@he noblest thoughts, and the most exquisite pleasure. Do we admire the wild and che@erf@ul notes poured forth by t@he warblers of the grove? These are greatly surpassed by the melody of man, whom we may justly style the prince of songsters. His voice far exceeds in compass and variety of modulation that of the ſeathered tri@bes and when bodily su@ﬀe@ring, or chill and nipping penury do not wring from him @notes of woe, @he chants t@he greater part of his life in happy and cheerful strains. There are few @persons insensible to @the c@harms of voice, and scarcely can any one be found whose soul is so totally devoid of music, that he does not occasionally give utterance to t@he buoyancy of @his spirits, by vocal modulations. The child hums away the careless hours-and manhood itself forgets its weary toils in artless song. But when science an@d art combine to @perfect the latter, of what higher or more re@ﬁned enjoyments is t@he most cultivated mind susceptible? while @he ravishes the ear with @his music, at t@he same time captivates t@he understanding, by giving utterance to thought his notes are not mere empty sounds. To w@hatever t@he ric@h imagination of t@he poet has embodied, or the pen of eloquence de- picted, @man can impart still higher charms by his song and thus, by addressing at once t@he intellect and passions, lead captive @his willing listeners. Voice i'self, w@hen unarticulated, forms a kind of natural languages and in this res@pect is highly important. Di@ﬀerent animals are dis-tinguishe@d by peculiar and appropriate cries. Man likew@ise expresses his feelings and emotions by di@ﬀerently modifying the intonation of voice, and every a@@ﬀection of t@he mind is characterized by a particular tone. Thus, anger uniformly manifests itself in loud, harsh, and hollow sounds. Mirth an@d joy are ex@pressed in moderately loud, but sharp and brisk notes, with sudden transitions throug@h consider- able intervals, passing rapidly from the grave to t@he acute, and generally ending with a high note. Slow, full, and measured tones are @ﬁtted for devotion. Grief and compassion are expressed in low, sliding, and diminishing notes where the transitions are not sudden, nor by sharp turns, nor strongly contrasted intervals, t@he movement proceeding by single or @half notes, and generally in t@he descending scale. Fear is expressed by low,@@ @lous, and uncertain tones. The sudden start of horror and angui@sh, by t@he shriek and t@he lengthened scream. While t@he yell of mortal agony, which is extorted by instant and impending death, combines in it all that is horrible. Exultation and triumph are naturally expressed by loud and sustained shouts in a high key. Such are the hurrahs and cheers by which all nations, rude or civilized, give vent to their feelings of triumph, and drive terror into the hearts of t@heir enemies. All these peculiarities of voice may be imitated by musical instruments, an@d Collins has admirably described them in his Ode to the Passions. Thus every emotion will be indicated by the tone of voice so that it forms a  which is understood by all nations. Nor do I imagine it a less sure index of t@he soul than eit@her physiognomy or phrenology for whatever pass@ion may be prominent in a@n indi- vidual, the habitual expression of it will at length give a tincture to the voice in general. Shakspeare seemed aware of this, w@here King Lear, w@hen enumerating t@he excellencies of Cordelia, says- Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and low-an excellent thing in a woman. SELECTIONS. Out of twelve gentlemen who started from this city and  neighbourhood to the last Doncaster races, seven of them have since been transported for various periods. Nash, one of the party who has resided at Summers Town for these last two or three years, has been transported for life, for picking a gentleman's pocket in London.-Oxford Herald. After t@he late action at Navarino, an Irishman, named Phelan, who was cook's mate of the Genoa, was observed to skip about the kitchen with the most ludicrous manifestation of joy. On being questioned, he shouted out, Och, by t@he powers I'm so glad the villains @hav'nt spoilt t@he coppers-the devil a shot has touched them. It may not be generally known, that silk folded and put into a press and screwed down very hard, will, after remaining in it a few hours, be prettily watered, equal in every respect to what is e@ﬀected by hot‐pressing. Seed corn soaked in a solution of Glauber's salts, will vegetate quickly, and the salts will protect it against worms, fowls, and birds. This accidental discovery, it is said, has been fully tested. A gentleman lately dead, has left by will a sum of @ﬁve hundred guineas to his wife, adding a clause, that she was not to have the bene@ﬁt of it till after her death, in order that she might have where@‐withal to be buried in a comfortable manner. When M. de Latour‐Maubourg had a leg shot o@ﬀ by a cannon ball, his servant began to weep@ ! Why are you grieved ? said the brave General to him dost thou not see you will have a boot less to clean ?  American paper says, a black woman, walking on all‐fours, possessing the agility of a monkey in climbing, conversing freely in Creole French, and having t@he lower limbs vulgarly called legs of the ourang‐outang, is advertising for exhibition at New Orleans ! NEGROES.-Blumenbach gives us a most entertaining ac- count of a little library which he possesses of works written by Negroes, from which it appears that there is not a single department of taste or science in which some Negro @has not distinguished himself. A negro about to purchase a @ﬁsh, visited a shop where several were exposed for sale @but suspecting that one, which he int@ended to @buy, was not altogether as fresh as @he could wish, he presumed either to dissipate or con@ﬁrm his suspicions by applying it to his nose. T@he @ﬁshmonger, conscious that it would not bear much examination, and fearing that ot@her customers might catch t@he scent, exclaimed in a surly tone- How dare you to smell my @ﬁsh ? Me no smell, me only talking to him, massa. And what were you talking to him about ? Me ask him, massa, what t@he best news at sea@? And what reply did he make you ? Oh, massa, he say he know no news, as he have not been there these three week. One Sunday, two sailors being together in Stoke Church, of which the Rev. John Hawker is curate, one of them asked @his messmate t@he meaning of the letters I.H.S. on t@he pulpit- cloth. You fool, says the other, don't you see it stands for John Hawker, Stoke. This explanation quite satis@ﬁed Jack not so did the sermon, for the parson preached so long that dinner was spoiled, and Jack vowed that he never would visit that church again. Some time afterwards, being at another port, he went to church, but @he had scarcely taken his seat when @he saw the letters I.H.S. on the pulpit‐cloth. Oh, ho says he, John Hawker, Stoke, here too-I've lost one dinner by hi@m  wont lose anotherand with these words he made a  church, congratulat- ing himself upon his  following cement is recommended as perfectly e@ﬀective for withstanding the combined @eﬀect of @ﬁre and water. Take any quantity of lime, recently prepared from calcined oyster shells, and mix to the consistence of paste with white of egg, and lay it immediately into the @ﬁssure, when it will soon consolidate to the hardness of stone. Like the Roman cement, if su@ﬀered to dry while using, it is quite insoluble again even by strong acid. T@he following passage of Don Quixote bears a singular ap- plication to the a@ﬀair at Navarino. In the 38th chapter, the captive, relating his adventures, says- The year following I was at Navarino, rowing in t@he captain‐galley, and there I saw and observed t@he opportunity that was then lost of taking the whole Turkish navy in port. For all the Levan- tines and Janissaries, Egyptians and Turks on board took it for granted they should be attacked in the harbour, and had their baggage and their passamaques, or shoes, in readiness for running away immediately by land. But heaven ordered it otherwise, for t@he sins of Christendom, and because God permits and ordains, that there should always be some scourges to chastise us.  patent has been lately obtained for making a @ﬁre‐proof roo@ﬁng of thin cast iron plates, so as to lock into each other, and e@ﬀectually carry o@ﬀ the rain. It is said, the cost of this roo@ﬁng will not exceed one‐third that of lead, and be equally durable. It is also less weight per 100 square feet than a roof of the best thick slating, and much less liable to damage from violent gales of wind, and, therefore, peculiarly adapted to buildings of the larger class, both in safety and economy. A  passengers set out in the Essex coach, from their inn, in London, on a December morning. It was dark as pitch and one of them not being sleepy, and wishing for a little conversation, endeavoured, in the usual mode, to stimulate his neighbour to discourse. A very dark morning, Sir Shocking cold weather for travelling Slow going in these heavy roads, Sir. None of these observations producing any answer, the sociable man made one more e@ﬀort. He stretched out his hand, and feeling t@he other's garment, exclaimed, What a very comfortable coat, Sir, you have got to travel in ! No answer was made and the inquirer, fatigued and disgusted, fell into a sound nap, nor awoke till the brightest rays of a winter's sun accounted to him for t@he taciturnity of his companion, by presenting to his view a huge bear luckily for him, muzzled and con@ﬁned , in a sitting posture, which was conveying to a country fair for exhibition.  the cli- mate of this country has undergone a considerable change within these last hundred years, is allowed by all who have considered the subject, and nothing furnishes a more con- vincing proof of this than the history of the vine. Previous to the reign of Henry VIII. every abbey and monastery had its vineyard. In t@he rent rolls of churc@h property, in those days, and long afterwards, it appears considerable quantities of grapes were paid as tithes, and the vestiges of some of those vineyards remains to this day. They were usually placed on the south side of the hill, in a light dry soil, having the sur- face covered with sand, the vines being trained near the ground. But wit@h such inclement and changeable springs and long protracted winters as have been experienced of late, even such frost as is seen at the moment I am writing 24th of April , vines as standards in the open air would be destroyed, or at least no dependence could be placed upon them for a crop. But vineyards in this country could neither be so pro@ﬁtable, nor are they so necessary as they were in those days inter- national intercourse is now more open, and corporations, whether religious or civil, can be supplied with grapes in any shape, and t@heir precious juice in any quantity, at a cheaper rate than even home grown, or home made. In their culti- vation in this country, practitioners are more likely to err in planting them in too rich than too poor a soil the @ﬁrst adds too much to their natural luxuriance of growth, and always reduces the @ﬂavour of the fruit.  this inclement season, hardly a single person escapes what is called a cold, and but few so af@ﬂicted know how to treat it. The following advice is that given by t@he late Dr. Beddoes, in his instructions - It s@hould be recollected, that a cold is occasioned either by a sudden change from cold to heat, or from heat to cold but more frequently by the former. - When a cold, attended with a cough, is fastened upon a person, what is proper to be done ? This ought generally to be known, as the poor cannot a@ﬀord, and others at @ﬁrst will seldom take t@he pains to seek advice. It is not right, then, in the begin- ning of a cold, to make t@he room where you sit warmer than usual, to increase the quantity of bed‐clothes, to wrap your- self in @ﬂannel, or to drink large draughts of piping @hot bar- ley‐water, boiled up with raisins, @ﬁgs, liquorice‐root, and t@he like. This is the right way to make the disorder worse.-Perhaps there would be hardly such a thing as a bad cold, if people, when they @@ﬁnd it coming on, were to keep cool, to avoid wine and strong drinks, and to con@ﬁne themselves for a short time to a simple diet, as potatoes and other vegetables, with toast and water. I @have known instances of heat in the nostrils, di@@ﬃculty of breathing, with a short tickling cough, and other symptoms, threatening a violent cold, go o@ﬀ @entirely in consequence of this plan being pursued. I have found the pulse to beat from 12 to 20 strokes in a minute less, after a person at the onset of a cold had continued quiet three quarters of an hour in a cool room. It is not only warmth, suddenly applied, @that will throw any part of the body, after it @has been starved or benumbed, into violent action, and bring on in@ﬂammation strong liquors will do the same.  a report of the Council of Health Gazette de Sante, Dec. 5 , appears an account of the suicides committed in Paris in 1826. The number amounts to 511. The principal causes, from t@he inquiries of the commissioners, appear to be love, domestic chagrins, misery , diseases, mad- ness, derangement of a@ﬀairs, and, lastly, gaming. Of these 511 suicides, 417 only have known causes and of these417, 69 are attributed to t@he lottery and to gaming, forming almost a quarter of t@he whole, when it is considered that the domestic chagrins, and t@he derangement of a@ﬀairs mentioned among t@he causes of a great number of suicides, ought in part to be attributed to play. With regard to t@he 94, the causes of which are not precisely mentioned, there is reason to believe that gaming may be assigned as the origin of many, for, generally speaking, gamblers keep t@heir way of life secret, and dare not communicate to their families the subject of their distresses most oftentimes, also, despair seizes them unawares and suddenly, which is t@he reason that t@heir relations and neig@hbours are not aware of t@he cause of it.-French paper.  @number of an American paper, says-Yesterday we observed an immense @ﬂock of blackbirds, extending more than half a mile in length, and some rods in breadth. T@heir direction was south, making a noise wit@h their wings almost deafening. They seemed to proceed in their course with t@he utmost regularity, having every appearance of being conducted by a leader. There were numbers of them skirting t@he main body, and apparently acting as @ﬂank guards. There must have been some tens of thousands of them.-A few days ago a Canadian woman, at Chambly, while making an omelet for some persons who were to breakfast wit@h her, opened an egg for the purpose, and, to her surprise, found it contained a live snake, about two inches in length, and resembling, in almost every par- ticular, the common grass‐snake, with the exception of the head being unusually large and @ﬂat. When liberated, it crawled about in the frying‐pan with muc@h alacrity. Several of the neighbours were witnesses of the fact. The hen that laid the egg was immediately killed, and a number of soft eggs were taken out of her, each of which, on being broken, was found to contain a snake, in size and perfection propor- tioned to the egg which contained it.  are personally assured @by a re- spectable gentleman, that the following is strictly and literally true -Some time ago, an out‐house belonging to a gentleman in t@he neighbourhood of Oswestry was very mu@ch infested wit@h rats at a distance of @about 80 yards from the building, a constant stream of water passes, and it @has been observed that this species of vermin are fond of a damp or wet situation. Either by age or accident, one of t@he fraternity was entirely blind and to show the wonderful sagacity of the animals, one of its companions actually carried a piece of straw several inches long in its mouth, and, placing one end of it in the mouth of its blind companion, led it to t@he stream of water, a distance of some yards, by the other end of the straw!-Whether this was its usual manner or not, t@he person who witnessed t@he fact had not an opportunity of observing.-Shre@wsbury Chronicle. LOCAL AND PROVINCIAL NEWS. Continued  in the third page.e.  following @have been committed to t@he Gaol of this town, since our last -@John Dayre, for stealing beef, the property of Mr. Wm. An@ﬁeld and Mary Brown and Thomas Crosby, for stealing a pair of shoes, t@he property of Robert Lenham.  Monday t@he sitting Magistrates were Jonas Brown@ Esq and the Rev J. Gilby. The following persons have been committed from the Public Hall since our last ‐‐‐‐John Carr, an Irishman, charged with having, on the night of Tuesday week, stolen a lead pump, from the premises of the late Mr. Ombler, of Camerton. Jane Donovan was sent to the sessions for trial, as an in- corrigible rogue. She is an old o@ﬀender, having been a source of annoyance for upwards of thirty years, in the course of which period she has been committed and passed to her settlement times out of number. Henry Doughty was committed on a charge of stealing a quantity of oats and beans, in February last, the property of his mas- ter, J. K. Watson, @Esq. Thomas Lister, farrier, at Beverley, charged with receiving the property, has given bail to appear at t@he sessions.‐‐- gerson, charged w@ith stealing a sheep, near Paull, was further examined on Saturday week, at Beverley, and fully committed for trial. We gave t@he details last week. The following committals to the House of Correction at Beverley, in addition to those from Sculcoates Hall, @have taken place since our last -Francis Cutts, charged with entering the plantations of Chas. Grimston, Esq. at Kilnwick, with intent illegally to destroy game, on the night of t@he 20th Dec. last. Wm. Brown, charged with violently assault- ing Wm. Clayton, of Kel@ﬁeld, in the East‐Rid@ing, he being in the due execution of @his o@@ﬃce as constable for trial at the next sessions. John Creaper and Wm. Pease, for deserting their wives and families the former to be imprisoned one calendar month, and the latter seven days, each to hard labour. Mary Allanson and Elizabeth Brown, disorderly ser- vants the former one month, the latter 14 days to hard labour. Henry Ward and Wm. Armstrong, for disobeying orders of bastardy, to be imprisoned three months to hard labour. John Foster, for vagrancy, to be imprisoned three calendar months Jacob Johnson, for vagrancy, one calendar month, and John Broadburn, for vagrancy, 14 days, each to hard labour. Lately, a labourer, called Edward Banks, in the employ of Mr. Wheatley, farmer, Garton, while oiling a thrashing machine, unfortunately got his right hand entangled. Mr. Harwood, surgeon, of Dri@@ﬃeld, was called in, who, on exa- mination, found t@he fractures and laceration so extensive, that @he deemed immediate amputation necessary. T@he patient is now doing well.  Bentley, of Cleck- heaton, charged with being concerned, along wit@h J. S@choles, J. Bentley, J. Brooke, S. Smith, and others yet unknown, in t@he wilful murder of U. Wor@mersley, on the night of t@he 30th Nov. Matthew Appleyard, of Denby, for breaking into the warehouse of Joshua Moxon, at Denby aforesaid, and stealing therefrom a quantity of goods, his property. Joseph Hud- son, charged with robbing the shop of Mrs. Wood, pawnbroker, of seven watches and ot@her articles. T@he prisoner was ap- prehended shortly after the robbery, with four of the watches concealed in his hat.  the periodical meeting of the festival committee, held on Wednesday, Mr. Price, of Ciementhorpe, and Mr. John Woodall, jun. of Scarbro', were added to t@he committee. Mr. Davies was appointed t@he treasurer. Mr. Camidge, Dr. Camidge, Mr. White, and Mr. P. Knapton, were appointed assistant conductors. Doctor Camidge was engaged as t@he organist. Various resolutions were passed relative to the engagement of vocal and instru- mental performers. The orchestra in the Festival Concert Room is to be re‐constructed the present one being extremely inconvenient, and indeed dangerous , and the room itself will be better ventilated. Arrangements are making to get up a series of concerts, at York, under the management of Dr. Camidge, and Mr. P. Knapton. York minster was much crowded on the afternoon of C@hristmas‐Day the light@‐ﬁngered gentry took advantage of this circumstance, to rob a gentleman of a gold watch‐key and seals one of the vergers was also plundered of a pair of silver‐mounted spectacles. At the Guildhall, York, on Saturday week, an information was laid against a person named Parker, for leaving a heap of dirt in Coney‐street, by which the Hull mail was overturned on the preceding Thursday evening. It appeared a man had been placed at the spot to watch, but had gone home to his supper. Parker was ordered to pay the expense of the damage done to the coach £1 14s. 6d. , a @ﬁne of 5s., and the costs. The following stale trick, which has been repeatedly at- tempted and but too frequently succeeded , at every horse fair in England, was last week played o@ﬀ at the Christmas show at York. A party of sharpers met with a green‐horn, from the neighbourhood of T@hirsk, o@ﬀering for sale a horse at the price of £25. One of the party o@ﬀered him £23, which he refused-another o@ﬀered to exchange with @him-and a third o@ﬀered £24 for the horse he was to receive in exchange. T@he exchange took place, but when he looked round for t@he man that o@ﬀered him £24, he had decamped, and left the farmer to the jest and ridicule of the party. He was advised to make t@he @best of the horse he had received, and in the end sold him for £9. Arrangements are making for a new mail coach, to com- mence running on the 5th instant, to carry four inside and four outside passengers, to leave Leeds daily for Halifax, about half‐past @ﬁve, or as soon after t@he arrival of the London mail, as may be convenient. Among the list of gentlemen, to whom his Majesty has granted the dignity of Baronet, is t@he Honourable Edward Marmaduke Vavasour, of Haslewood, in the county of York, brother of the Right Hon. Lord Stourton. Lord Wharucli@ﬀe @has presented the Rev. James Flowerdew with t@he livings of Essie and Nevy vacant by the translation of the Rev. James Miller. A  week, the following  Monday, December 24. Our market, being held o@ﬀ our regular day, has been but thinly with either buyer or seller but any thing o@ﬀering in wheats , no alteration in old foreign. Oats and beans are both with@@-  @alteration in value, and the demand for both continues very limited. The principal supply of barley has been from this neighbourhood a@nd Lincolnshire, which only meets a slow sale at our late quotations. In old@@ grinding parcels no alteration.@@ Rapeseed is comparatively con@ﬁned to few hands, and held @ﬁrmly at our quotations. Linseed in limited demand at late prices @£0 17s. 4d. Rye, none Beans, 81 qrs. 5 bushels, @£2 2s. 0d. Peas, 10 qrs. 0 bushels, £2 8s. 0d. The above Return of British Corn only, is computed by the Imperial Measure, agreeably to the 7th and 8th Geo. IV. cap. 58. WAKEFIELD CORN MARKET. Friday, December 28. There is a good supply of wheat for this day's market as also a consi@der- able quantity of barley and beans. In consequence of the holidays, we have a thin attendance of buyers. Wheat sells heavily at the rates of last week, and barley likewise rules dull, but no less prices are taken. Beans have again receded 1s. per quarter, and any thing except the dryest parcels are di@@ﬃcult to quit. Oats and shelling remain @the same in value, and the de- mand still limited. No variation in other articles. Wheat, Su@ﬀolk and Norfolk, old, 55s to 58s-New,  to @@56s-Boston a@nd Wis@bech, @53s to 54s-new, 47s to @53s-Yorkshire, old, 55s to 56s-new, 46s to 50s-Foreign, 48s to 52s  qr. of@@ 60. Barley, Su@ﬀolk and Norfolk, new, @@32s to @33s-Fine, 35s-Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, 2@9s to 31s-Foreign Malting, 00s to 00s-Grinding, 29s to 30s  qr. imperial. Beans, English, 5@9s to 62s-New, 42s to 45s-@Egyptian, 4@4s to 45s  quarter of @@63℔. Oats, Potatoe and Poland, 32s to 3@4s erial-Mealing, English new, @11d to 12½d-Foreign new, @11½d to 12½d-Riga and Archangel, 1@3d  stone. Shelling, new, 28s to 30s  load. Malt, 40s to 42s-@ﬁne, 00s @ load. Flour, 40s. to 42s. per sack. Rapeseed, English, £23, £24-Foreign, £22 £25  last. Rape Cake, £5-Linseed Cake, £10. Arrivals.-Wheat, 5@637 qrs. Oats, 431 Barley, 6914 Beans, 1571 Peas, 97 Rapeseed, - Malt, 172 @@Shelling, 245 load@s Flour, 0 bags Tares, 00 qrs. Linseed, 00 qrs. Rye, 000 qrs. CORN‐EXCHANGE, MARK LANE. Friday, Dec. 28.-Our market, generally, has been very dull since Mon- day, and wheat searcely sells on so good terms, owing to the very large arrival of @ﬂour coast@ways-upwards of 14,000 sacks. Barley also in somewhat lower, in consequence of the largeness of t@he supply and beans and @peas scarcely sell on so good terms. In oats t@here is very little business doing, but we can scarcely call them chea@per. In other articles no variation worth notice. CURRENT PRICES OF GRAI@N, PER QUARTER.  Leeds M@ary Batty @Riley stated that she was a widow, and resided @@@@@at a small house in Vienna‐street, in this town. On the 15th ult. she was returning home from transacting some business in the town, when the prisoner, William Wood, came up to her and asked her whether she was married, as he was in search of a wife. Mrs. Riley asked him his name, trade, and address, c. which he refused to tell her. He walked with her as far as Quarry‐Hill, where Mrs. Riley, not being quite satis@ﬁed with her strange suitor, went into a friend's house, and remained there some time. When she had gone about one hundred yards from the house, she was again joined by the prisoner, who renewed his suit with encreased vigour. They arrived afterwards at her house about nine o'clock. Ward went in and sat down, w@here he remained till @ﬁve o'clock the next morning. On that day Mrs. Riley received informa- tion that her mother was unwell, and on the following morning went to Hudders@ﬁeld to see her. She returned home on Saturday week, and found Ward in the house she locked the door and kept him there till a constable was sent for and he was apprehended. On examination it was disco- vered that @he had a pair of her late husband's shoes on his  pawned a green silk scarf, and some ot@her wearing @apparel belonging to Mrs. Riley. He was committed for trial at the next sessions.-Leeds Intelligencer.  Mark Robinson, w@ho has been in this town during last week, has been making a proposition to the clergy of this parish to add to the present system of the establishment, that of Church methodism. Two meetings of the clergy were held last week, when Mr. Robinson bad the opportunity of stating his plan of proceeding. We under- stand his communication met with a kind reception, but we have not heard even the substance of @his address. If the plan @he now proposes be somet@hing like what @has been adopted at other places, we can give our readers an outline of it.-Preachers arc employed by the clergy, with a salary of perhaps £50 per annum, which is paid by t@he churchwardens out of the parish rates. It is their duty to meet the classes, renew the tickets quarterly, to receive the contributions of t@he members, and pay the proceeds into the hands of the church- wardens, to hold love‐feasts, to preach in places where there is not su@@ﬃcient church accommodation, and at such times as will not interfere with the regular service of the establish- ment. All the members will of course have the rites of bap- tism, burial, @c. performed at the parish church, and they will be regular communicants at the altar of the Church of England. -@Leeds Intelligencer. At the collegiate and parish church of Manchester, on Sun- day week, no fewer than two hundred and thirty‐six couples challenged the whole race of political economists to shew@@ cause or just impediment why they should not respectively be lawfully joined together in holy matrimony. Bad as times are, our working classes, it would appear, will @not be deterred by population theories, from following the bent of their inclinations. The Richmond Forest Yeomanry Cavalry, and the Craven Legion are now disbanded, and Lord Grantham and Lord Wharncli@@ﬀe's corps are retained. In both cases, the order, it is s@aid, came directly from the Marquis of Lansdowne. On Friday week, a little boy, the son of Mr. Stephen Smith, of Woodhouse, near Keighley, when @returning from school, was blown into the Sun Beck, and drow@ned. It is said, t@he engineer at Mr. Warner's factory at Lough- borough, Leicestershire, has made a discovery which doubles the pow@er of the steam engine and that he has been o@ﬀered £1000 for the secret. O@n Tuesday week, a meeting of more than 100 coach‐pro- prietors, was held at Leicester, and by adjournment, on Thursday week, at Market Harborough. The object of this meeting, was, we understand, to make a general regulation of coach fares, and to do away with that opposition which leads to furious driving, and frequently occasions the loss of life. We have likew@ise heard that the question of steam- coaches was  Average Price of Corn, per quarter, for the week ending Dec. 14. IMPERIAL MEASURE.  OF FLOUR IN LONDON. Per sacks delivered. Per sack on board  appeared to be a great nu@@mber of buyers of co@ﬀee to a considerable extent, but the ofſers they tendered were at prices below our last quoted prices t@he consequence is, no purchases are reported to have been e@ﬀected. TALLOW.-Towards the close of the last week the tallow market con- tinued to improve both in demand and price this morning t@he market is not so brisk, but there is not as yet any variation reported in the currency. The stock, in @London, at present, consists of 39,412 casks the weekly de- livery may @be quoted at 1,642 casks, at 38s.  cwt. OILS.-In oils there is not any material variation. COTTON.-In t@he cotton market there is no alteration the sales for  inclusive, are too inconsiderable to be @The latest sales of fruit are reported to be to some extent. @Red Smyrna raisins at 47s. Valentia ditto, held at 53s. In other descriptions of fruit there is no material alteration. SPIRITS.-As is customary during Christmas week, but very little busi- ness of any sort has been done in Mincing‐lane, and prices may be quoted nominally about the same as our last. A sale of a@bout 100 puncheons of Leewards has been submitted to at nearly a @penny  gallon below the cur- rency, @and which is the only one, of any consequence, reported. Proofs, and two  cent. overproof, 2s. 3d. to @2s. 4d. @Four to @ﬁve per cent. ditto, ditto, 2s. 5d. to 2s. 6d. In Jamaica, although not much business doing, prices continue  AND WINES.-The demand of late for the home trade has been very considerable, but with little or no variation in prices. FROM TUESDAY NIGHT'S GAZETTE. BANKRUPTS. Wm. Kendrick, Daventry, Northamptonshire, grocer. Wm. Poynter, Lamb's Conduit‐street,  @W. Addison @and J. Wren, Man- chester, drapers. J. Botto@mley, W@@eakey, Yorkshire, clothier.  @Manchester, cordwainer. J. B. Taylor, sen, and J. B. Taylor, jun. Stock- port, Chester, iron founders. DIVIDENDS. W. Coupland and @W. B. Colton, Liverpool, merchants, Jan. 19, at one, at the @George Inn, Liverpool. C. Pasheller and J. Pas@heller, Huntingdon, bankers, Jan. 16, at eleven, at the George Inn, Huntingdon. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. P. M. Gri@@ﬃth, Birmingham, jeweller. FRIDAY's G@AZETTE. BANKRUPTS. R. Hod@son, Coburg‐place, Borough‐road, glass@man. I. Haley, Bramley, Leeds,  J. Horsley, E. G. Hill, Billiter‐square, merchants. @W. Mardall, @Water‐lane, brandy‐merchant. John Monk- house, Camberwell, tavern‐keeper. J. Randall, Kentish‐town, auctioneer. S. Thompson, Leighton Bussar@d, Bedfordshire, str@aw‐plat dealer. @W. War@ @@@Dartford, Kent, @patent washing‐machine‐ma@nufacturer. R. Parry, Ruthin, Denbighshire, linen‐draper. BANKRUPTCIES ENLARGED. @W. H. Cooper, Canon‐row, Westminster, dealer in Roman cement. @W. Jessup, jun. Broad‐street, Ratcli@ﬀ, victualler. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. @W. B. Harrison, Manchester, cotton‐dealer. DIVIDEND. R. Cook and R. Sutton, Barton‐upon‐Humber, Lincolnshire, corn‐factors, Jan. 19, at twelve, at the Kingston Hotel, Kingston‐upon‐Hull. PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED. J. Atkinson, jun., J. Ellam, and J. Kirk, Bradley Mills, Dalton, York- shire, wood‐cutters. B. Butterworth, G. Mallinson, and E. Johnson, of Hudders@ﬁeld, Yorkshire, merchants. CERTIFICATES-Jan. 18. M. Heaton, Royd's House, Haworth, Yorkshire, worsted‐spinner. J. Martindale, of Chester‐le‐Street, farmer. @H. and T. Wea@therald, of Kirkby Malzeard, Y@orkshire,  Buttivant, Appledore, near Bideford, Devonshire, merchant. J. @Wal- ters, Cwm‐Corwg‐House, near Newport, Monmouthshire, retail‐brewer. @@HULL Printed and Published by and for the Proprietor, T. TOPPING, OPPOSITE THE CHURCH‐YA@RD,  Brigg, Richardson Caistor, Nainby Grimsby, Skelton Gainsborough, Drury Dri@@@ﬃeld, Turner Leeds, Heaton Lincoln, Drury Liverpool, Willmer Louth, J. J. Jackson  Smithson, jun. Manchester, Forrest Newark, Ridge Newcastle, Walker Pontefract, Elcock Scarbro', Mrs. Ainsworth Selby, Galpine She@@ﬃeld, Ridge Shields, Peart, Stockton, Miles Whitby, Kirby 
ndnsanity, could induce  to place themselves in hostile collision with the European powers This is inconceivable. The most deplorable part of the a@ﬀair is, that, although decisive evidence will be thus a@ﬀorded to the Sultan of the impartiality of the negociating powers, and of their determination to enforce the armistice on all hands, the destruction of the Greek naval force, is an occurrence so consonant to his wishes as to tend inevitably to inspire fresh hopes of the ultimate subjugation of Greece. The writer of one of the paragraphs communicating the intelligence, seems to believe that this event will oblige the Sultan to accept the intervention. We regret to say we see the a@ﬀair in a very di@ﬀerent light, and cannot but consider it as a most a@@ﬄicting piece of news, view it in what shape we will. The following extracts from the Gazette de France of Friday last, contain all that is at present known upon this important subject  18.-Letters from Trieste announce that Admiral de Rigny has burnt, before Scio, the Greek @ﬂeet, which had refused to obey the in- junction of the 24th Oct. TRIESTE, DEC. 16.-Admiral de Rigny burnt the Greek @ﬂeet at Scio, after having summoned Fabvier to suspend hostilities. This news, which has caused the greatest sensation, is o@@ﬃcial. Our Governor has sent a courier to Vienna. VIENNA, DEC. 19.-News of the disaster of the Greek @ﬂeet, burnt by Ad- @miral Rigny, has arrived here. It is expected that this a@ﬀair will force, forcera , the Sultan to accept the intervention. The Vienna article of the 18th also states that letters from Odessa of the 7th, mention that accounts have been received from Constantinople that the Ambassadors had actually em- barked on the 1st ultimo. The Augsburg Gazette, however, states on the authority of news from the same place, that the Ambassadors were only preparing to embark on the 1st. It is certainly possible that both accounts may be correct, as the latter accounts may have been written at an earlier hour of the same day, and it may actually prove that the Ambas- sadors took their departure on the afternoon of that day.-We must therefore wait for further arrivals from Constanti- nople, before we entirely conclude that the die is cast. Letters from Malta, dated 1st ult. state that Admiral COD- RINGTON was making active preparations to put down the Greek pirates. Sir  in the Isis, and a squadron were ordered on that service. Letters received on Friday from St. Petersburgh, dated 10th ult. state that the late victory over the Persians, by the Russians, has led to a preliminary treaty of peace. The Rus‐ sians are to retain all the country to the north of the Araxes' and a small portion to the southward, and all the expenses of the war are to be borne by the Persians. This account is con@ﬁrmed by the French Papers. The building adjoining the Shambles at the end of Queen‐ street, intended for the new Corn Market, will be opened this day for public business. It possesses, we understand, every requisite for the purposes to which it is appropriated, in point of convenience. Thirty boxes are @ﬁtted up, to be let at a certain sum per annum, wherein samples can be exhibited, and other business transacted. The subscribers and friends to the institution celebrate the opening of the building by a dinner at the Kingston Hotel this day.  second Ball this season took place last evening at the Assembly Rooms, in North‐ street. The company consisted of upwards of 130 individuals, comprising a large proportion of the wealth, beauty, and fashion of this district of our extensive and populous county. Dancing was kept up with spirit till half‐past three in the morning, when the party separated, anticipating a renewal of the pleasures of the sprightly scene, at the next merry meeting.  will be seen, by an advertisement in another column, that this young lady's Concert takes place tomorrow evening. The selection comprises some very beautiful compositions, and altogether the performance promises to be of a highly popular character. We feel convinced that Miss B. will not fail, on this occasion, to receive the support to which her talents and laudable anxiety to please at all times, so amply entitle her. Mr. Calvert, of the Hull Theatre, we observe, has noti@ﬁed his intention of delivering a course of Lectures on Elocution, at the Exchange Room, to commence on the 12th instant. The Literary and Philosophical Society have evinced the estimation in which they hold the talent of Mr. C. by giving their sanction to the undertaking @we feel assured, under these circumstances, that the success of this gentleman, upon the occasion in question, will be fully adequate to the opinion so generally entertained of his ability. MISS FOOTE.-We very much regret that the friends of the above lady, whose talents we admire, should think it neces- sary to propagate the most absurd and fulsome pu@@ﬀs in her praise. Such conduct is unwise, as well as unjust to the public, and can be of no service to Miss F. Our attention has been called to this subject by observing a long article in two London papers, dated from this town, and quoted at the bottom Hull Paper, full of the most contemptible false- hoods, not one word of which ever appeared in any paper published here. The article commences by telling the reader that in the olden time these are the very words used , the taste for theatricals was at a very low ebb in Hull, but that Miss Foote and Mr. Downe had contrived to infuse a new and better feeling ! This is merely ridiculous but the next statement, unless the o@ﬀspring of the grossest ignorance, is a wilful lie it says, on her last year's visit Miss F. received 300 guineas for six nights, besides having the grati- ﬁcation of placing a large sum at the disposal of the treasury. Miss F. as most of our readers know, was never engaged in Hull until the present season, and therefore could neither receive 300 guineas on her last year's visit, nor aid the trea- sury by leaving any sum at its disposal ! The paragraph then states that Miss F. played Juliet and Maria Darlington four nights@! that every box was taken for four nights ! and that she sung Buy a broom three times i. e. had a double encore on each night of her performance! False, every word! We repeat, that such impudent trash as the above can be of no service to Miss Foote, and it would be prudent in that lady to suggest to her friends, how little necessity there can be for them to push their zeal to such unjusti@ﬁable lengths. On Wednesday last, a boy named Thomas Brown, was pushing a boat o@ﬀ from the vessel on which he was standing in the Old Harbour, when he unfortunately lost his balance and fell into the water, between the vessel and the boat, and was drowned. The body was not found till Saturday, and an inquest was held over it the same day, before George Coulson, Esq. coroner, when a verdict of accidental death was returned. The deceased was about eleven years old. Yesterday, at the Mansion‐House, Mr. S. Alcock was con- victed in treble costs, for levying a distress to the amount of 12s. @6d. and charging costs thereon 6s. @6d., being 1s. more than the rate @ﬁxed by Act of Parliament.ament. A young gentleman, whose parents reside in this neighbaur‐ hood, was lately paying them a visit. Being a pupil of Christ's Hospital, at Hertford, he had come home arrayed in the ugly and outlandish costume worn by the boys of that establishment, and while here, frequently took his walks in t@he same garments. In one of these rambles, he was discovered by two countrymen who had never seen anything so strange before. His long blue‐gown, leathern‐girdle, yellow stockings, indispensables of the same extraordinary complexion, and want of a hat, partly convinced them that he was some unfortunate maniac who had escaped from the Hull Refuge. They deter- mined therefore to interrogate him, and should his language correspond with the strangeness of his appearance, they agreed to take him into custody. With this intention they went up to the object of their solicitude, and one of them asked who he was. The lad, having a mind to astonish the natives, answered in Latin, puer sum. Poor Sam, indeed ! said one of the rustics, we are very sorry for you, but must see you properly looked after. His answer had con@ﬁrmed their suspicions, and they forthwith very uncere‐ moniously dragged him to the nearest village, where the party was met by one of the youth's friends, and he was fortunately rescued from the nervous grasp of his self‐con- stituted guardians@@@@@@@@. An ox of extraordinary weight and beauty was slaughtered at Market Weighton, on the 22d of December, by Mr. Robert Tindale. He was bought of Mr. James Bradley, of Etton, had been drawn and fed by Lord Faversham, and was of his Lordship's short horned breed. He was six years old, and it is only eighteen months since he worked in the team. @He walked @ﬁfty miles as nimble as though he had not been fatted, and was thought to be the handsomest ox ever slaughtered. WeightFore quarter, 72 stone 31b. hind quarter, 51 st. 5lb. loose fat, 20 st. hide, 8 st. 10lb. -152 st. 4 lb.-14lb. to the stone@@@@@@. It is intended to apply to Parliament for power to make a canal from the river Don, at Balley, near Doncaster, through the townships of Cantley, Awkley, and Finningly, to join the Bicker Dike, which empties itself into the Trent, at Stock‐ with, about four miles below Gainsbro'.'. The Marquess and Marchioness of Wellesley arrived at Holyhead on Saturday week, from Dublin. Charles Mathews was to commence his engagement at Drury‐lane theatre last night, in his character of @Buskin in Killing no Murder.  constant encroachment of the sea is visible on the cli@ﬀ between Bridlington and Barm‐ ston, estimated at about six feet per annum. This regularly progressive destruction has, however, been carried so far be- yond its customary line, within the last six weeks, as to cause rather an extraordinary sensation in those best acquainted @na of a similar kind. In some places 15 feet, in others 20, and even 30 feet from the cli@ﬀ, the carriage road along this part of the country has passed away within the last month and, for nearly half a mile, this road has lately rolled do@wn into the sea, to be deposited nobody knows where. The contiguous land, lately supported by the cli@ﬀ, is now to be seen, much loosened by the loss of its wall, and in a dis- located state for many yards from the cli@ﬀ‐top whether these broken portions are destined to fall quickly, or to remain another year, is a question of little consequence they must soon be mingled in confusion. The appearance, at pre- sent, is as that occasioned by an earthquake. A temporary road is made between the undisturbed points and a new road is in a forward state of preparation. Much damage has of late been done all along the eastern coast of Su@ﬀolk from Aldborough to Lowesto@ﬀe, in conse- quence of an unusually high tide, accompanied by a violent gale of wind. At Easton farm, full four acres of land, the property of Sir T. Gooch, Bart@ and a part of it with a growing crop of turnips, were carried into the sea. So violent have been the attacks of the watery element on this spot, that during the occupation of the present tenant more than forty acres have been taken away by the same means. The inhabit- ants of the little town of Sout@hwold, situated on the coast about a mile to the south‐west from Easton Cli@ﬀ for many years past the summer resort of much company were at the same time thrown into great consternation and alarm. The sea rolling tremendously against the Gun‐hill-the favourite walk and most fashionable part of the town-a great part of it was washed away, and so undermined that large masses of the hill fell down. A public walk, called the Ladies' Walk, is entirely destroyed and serious apprehensions are enter- tained for the safety of many valuable houses near the sea, should there be a recurrence of a similar visitation.-Su@ﬀolk Herald. On Friday last, Mr. W. Thompson, of Dri@@ﬃeld, was robbed of notes to the amount of £12, in the passage of the Fleece Inn, to the Market‐Place. A woman named Mary Price was apprehended a few hours after, by Taylor, one of our police, and was fully committed on the following day, to take her trial for the o@ﬀence at the approaching Sessions. Most of the money was found in her possession. The Annual Meeting of the Members of the Lyceum, was held at their room in Parliament‐street, on Monday evening, Mr. Henwood, the President, in the chair who introduced the business of the evening by referring to the increasing prosperity of the institution. The whole debt, now amount- ing to only £30, could be discharged at any time the society thought proper to pay o@ﬀ the remaining shares a much greater number of books had been admitted during the past year, than in any former one since the institution commenced. As twenty‐one years have elapsed since the @ﬁrst establish- ment of the society, it was proposed by John Crosse, Esq. that the members should dine together at an early oppor- tunity, to commemorate the event, which was cordially agreed to. The following gentlemen were elected to serve upon the Committee for the ensuing year - Mr. James Henwood, Mr. George Locking, John Crosse, Esq. F.S.A. Mr. John Exley, Rev. James Colquhoun, Rev. William Wilson, Dr. C. Alderson, Mr. Thomas Buchanan, C. M. and Mr. Wm. Gardner. Those marked were re‐elected . The society at present consists of 257 members. Mr. William Richmond, the President of the Ship‐owners' Society, North Shields, has this last week addressed a long letter to the Honourable H. T. Liddell, M. P. for Northumber- land, upon the su@ﬀerings of British ship‐owners. In some points those two gentlemen's opinions are at variance. On Thursday morning, an attempt was made to rob the horse‐post from Thirsk to Boroughbridge, by two ru@@ﬃans, one of whom seized the reins of the horse, and the other struck the rider so violent a blow as nearly to force him from the saddle. The villain who had seized the reins, however, lost his hold, and the rider escaped with the letter bags in safety. The town of Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, on Wednesday, Thurs- day, and Friday in the week before last, was in a most extraordi- nary state of excitation, from the discovery of the exhumation of several bodies from the church‐yard of that parish, by a gang of resurrection men. It is supposed there have not been less than twenty bodies removed, as well as many others from the neighbouring church‐yards. Two of the resurrection men are in custody. We understand that, within a few days, accounts, if possible still more disheartening than before, as to the American a@ﬀairs of Messrs. Jeremiah and William Thompson, of Rawden, have reached this country.-Leeds Intelligencer. THE WEATHER -Such is the present unprecedented mild- ness of the weather, that we are informed gooseberries are at present forming upon some trees in this neighbourhood.-Daisies were gathered upon one of the highest hills in this vicinity on Wednesday.-Bradford Courier. An accident occurred on Wednesday evening during the performance at Mr. Powell's Circus, in @Bridge‐street,@ Brad- ford. In consequence of the crowded state of the gallery, one of the supporters broke, and part of the @ﬂooring gave way. Several females fainted from fear, but not the slightest injury was sustained by any of the audience. On Tuesday evening last, as Richard Parkinson, overlooker to Messrs. Richard Fawcett and Son, of Bradford, was return- ing from Horton to Bradford, about seven o'clock, he was stopped at Clay@ton‐lane‐end, near Manville House, by four men, who seized him and threw him down. After attempting to stop his mouth, they proceeded to ri@ﬂe his pockets, but providentially they did not succeed in accomplishing their@@@@@@@ purpose. The @ﬁnal resolution is now taken by the parties interested in the intended navigable canal from Wake@ﬁeld to Ferrybridge, to apply to Parliament during the ensuing session, for an act to make and maintain such canal. The struggle in Parliament last session between the Aire and Calder Company and the Wake@ﬁeld and Ferry bridge Company was most arduous, 130 members having voted for the new canal, and 135 against it, constituting a larger number of members than was ever before known to assemble in the House of Commons to vote on an inland navigation bill.-Bradford Courier.@ poachers in this part of the country have now hit upon the expedient of congregating in great numbers, for the purpose of intimidating those who have the care of game pre- serves. A body of sixty or seventy men assembled in this way and went to Templenewsam, near this town, the seat of the Marchioness of Hertford, on t@he night of yesterday week, ten of whom were armed with guns, and the rest with sticks and bludgeons. The residents of the mansion, of course heard what was going on in the grounds, for the plunderers shot game within @ﬁve yards of it, but the inmates per- ceiving w@hat vast numbers were assembled, and there being compa- ratively few keepers and watchers at hand, they did not venture to o@ﬀer any resistance. The poachers were therefore allowed to proceed in their depredations, and they brought away no small quantity of Christmas presents. Early in the morning of Thursday an express was sent o@ﬀ to Leeds for assistance, but the only civil power on duty were the watchmen, upwards of thirty of whom collected at six o'clock, the time at which they go o@ﬀ their rounds, and were despatched to Templenewsam by di@ﬀerent routes. The poachers had, in all proba- bility, left the grounds before t@heir arrival, or had retired in a di@ﬀerent direction to that in which the watchmen approached, for the poachers and the watchmen never came in contact with each other, or it is probable the result might have been serious. We have not heard that any of the party have been apprehended. Two poachers, being part of a gang from the neighbourhood of Dewsbury, were apprehended on the grounds of J. C. Brandling, Esq. of Middleton Lodge, near this town, on the night of Sunday week one of them had two pheasants in his possession, and the other w@as lying upon a gun. On Tuesday they were taken before the West Riding magistrates, assembling at the o@@ﬃce of Messrs. Smith and Hutchinson, in this town, when the man who was found lying on @his gun was dismissed, because it was not in his hand, and the other was @ﬁned £5.-Leeds Intelligencer. Several very bold attempts at robbery, independently of small pilferings, have occurred in Lincoln lately. On Friday night week, a noise was heard by one of the @neighbours as of persons moving about in the back yard of Messrs. Norton and Whitton, near the waterside, and in the morning it was found that a most persevering attack had been made on the count- ing‐house the door, a remarkably solid one, had resisted the e@ﬀorts of the thieves, though much broken, and some of its bolts undone, yet owing to an ingenious patent lock no entry could be made. It is supposed that the thieves must have been occupied for an hour in these attempts, and that a chance light in a neighbouring tenement caused them to desist.-About nine o'clock on the same night, Mr. R. Hoyle, farmer, of Heighington, was struck a violent blow by some unseen person, near the National School, and being made insensible thereby, was robbed of about £16, retaining his watchandabout £3. On Saturday night week, the warehouse lately belong- ing to Mr. Cuttill, but now to Messrs. Hooker and Co., on Brayford Wharf, was broken into, and some leather stolen, of comparatively small value it is fortunate that the warehouse was almost empty had two vessels been unladen, which had arrived the same day, a rich booty would have been obtained. There is reason to suppose that the thieves in most of these instances are inhabitants, especially in the last‐mentioned, as some time ago, a very powerful and ferocious dog, which had belongedto Mr. Cuttill, and had been long a safeguard to the premises, was poisoned. The Magistrates of Newcastle have forwarded a representa- tion to the Duke of Northumberland, Lord Lieutenant of the county, that if the Newcastle Yeomanry Cavalry are dis- banded, a larger military force will be requisite there. The Marquis of Cleveland has disbanded the South Tyne Hussars. The remainder of the Local and Provincial Intelligence will be found in the last page.@  Monday morning the 17th ult. a young man, a foreigner, Trapp by name, a native of Hamburgh, clerk in a German house in Manchester, put a period to his existence. He @ﬁrst took laudanum, then shot himself with a pistol, and lastly stabbed himself with a stiletto. THE THEATRE. On Wednesday evening, Miss Love, a lady who has obtained considerable celebrity in the metropolis, by her sprightly and versatile talents as a comedian, as well as by her@vocal abilities, made her @ﬁrst appearance at our Theatre, in pursuance of an engagement for @ﬁve nights, entered into with Mr. Downe. The character selected for her debut  have the melancholy duty of adding the following to the list of barbarous murders which have of late been perpetrated in various parts of the country. On Saturday evening, about half past eleven, the body of a young man, named Harms- worth, was found on the road side between Titch@ﬁeld and Fareham, in Hampshire, most barbarously mangled. Several  a spirit and @vivacity of manner that produced a very striking impres- sion upon the audience, and sang several songs in the most bewitching style that can be imagined, evincing at the same time the precision and taste of a @ﬁnished vocalist. Her voice is clear, powerful, and melodious, the lower tones particularly full and sweet, with a @ﬂexibility that enables her to execute passages of rapidity with ease and certainty. Her mode of giving a run of consecutive tones from the highest pitch of her voice, terminating @ﬁrmly on a note of extraordinary depth for a female, was much admired, and drew frequent plaudits from the house. Most of her songs were unanimously encored. I've been roaming, Why are you wandering, in the play, and the Light guitar in the afterpiece, were strikingly e@ﬀective. Mr. Downe in Admiral Franklin, and Mr. Dodd in Billy Lackaday, played with their usual talent, and kept the andience in high good humour. Miss Davies in the part of Eugenia, exhibited much ability in the delicacy and pathos with which she made her appeal to the Admiral as the daughter of his old friend. The afterpiece, Giovanni in London, was extremely well got up, and @@aﬀorded Miss Love an opportunity of displaying her peculiar talents to t est advantage. As the hero of the piece, the rakish Don, she wa an and spirit personi@ﬁed. Her every look, word, and motion. @ with sparkling vivacity. Indeed, we do not recollect to have seen on any stage a lady who possesses the spirit and animation of Miss Love @@certainly not one who, with a high cul- tivation of the musical art, combines every requisite for a @ﬁrst‐rate comic actress. Her Buy a broom in the character of a Bavarian peasant, was exquisite. This is a composition written expressly for her, and di@ﬀering toto coelo from the songs with that title given by some of her contempo‐ raries. She sings it with peculiar and irresistible humour, and imitates the voice and manner of the itinerant vender to the very life. Miss L. ap- peared last week, as Young Meadows in Love in a Village, Maria in Of Age To‐Morrow, Rosalind in As You Like It, and Paul in Paul and Virginia, and was in all these characters eminently successful. Last night she personated Zelinda in The S@lave, and repeated the character of @Don Giovanni, with increased applause. SPORTING INTELLIGENCE. CHASE, @c. The Holderness Fox Hounds, meet at Danthorpe, this day, J@an. 1 at Scorbro', on Thursday and at Beeford on Saturday-each day at eleven o'clock. Sir Tatton Sykes' Fox Hounds, meet at Bishop Wilton Beacon on  nesday, Jan. 2 and at  o'clock. Lord Yarborough's Fox et on Wednesday, Jan. 2, at Melton Low Wood on Friday at Elkington Cow Pasture and on Saturday at Thornton College-each day at Eleven o'clock  stabs appeared in various parts @of the body, one of his ears was cut o@ﬀ, and the head nearly severed from the trunk.-The following particulars have transpired -The unfortunate young man was of the most sober and ino@ﬀensive habits, and worked as a journeyman bricklayer at Gosport. His master, owing to the scarcity of employment during the winter, had discharged all his workmen except the deceased. This pre- ference, on the part of the master, had given rise to the most bitter animosity towards Harmsworth, in the breasts of his fellow‐workmen. On Saturday evening, they vowed ven- geance,and one of them, by name Sheppard, followed him from Gosport, towards his home near Titch@ﬁeld, with oaths and imprecation@. He entered a public‐house on the road, and borrowed a knife for the purpose of eating provisions @he had with him, which knife was found lodged in the throat of the deceased, and has been identi@ﬁed by the landlord as the one furnished by him to Sheppard. His hands, when he was taken into custody, were found covered with tar but the surgeon discovered, beneath the @ﬁnger nails, remains of blood and gore. His shirt‐sleeves, also, had been just washed. The prisoner's agitation was excessive. The occurrence has occa- sioned an extraordinary sensation in this part of Hampshire. -Morning paper.  the 12th ult. Margaret Parr, residing in College‐lane, near St. Helen's, was brought before two of his Majesty's justices of the peace, charged with having destroyed an infant, to wh@ich she had lately given birth.-Col. Williams, of Woolton, received information of the a@ﬀair in an anonymous letter. She, for a long time, persisted in asserting her innocence but, when the evidence against her became too strong for further denial, she admitted that she had had a child, and had destroyed it by putting it on the e! Though this hellish deed had been perpetrated a fortnight previous to her apprehension, the constable found, in the ash- hole, a part of the back and shin bones, which he afterwards produced in evidence before the court. The daemon of a mother was @ﬁnally committed to Lancaster Castle, to take her trial. -Liverpool Mercury.  Monday evening, some daring ru@@ﬃan discharged a blunderbuss loaded with slugs, against a window of the drawing‐room of Count Munster's house, at Putney Hill. The family, of course, were greatly alarmed the slugs broke eleven panes of glass, and lodged in the shutters, which were closed at the time. A gig or light cart was heard to drive o@ﬀ in a gallop after the shot but in con- sequence of the confusion it caused was not pursued. A  most extraordinary caprice of nature occurred in this town Taunton on Sunday morn ing last, in the birth of a female child having two distinet and perfectly‐formed faces. Elizabeth Verrier, the mother of the child, is the wife of a carpenter, residing in Ho@lway‐lane. She had, previously, seven healthy children, none of them exhibiting the least deviation from ordinary nature. In the present instance there was no prematurity of birth the child lived three quarters of an hour, and in the course of that period cried very audibly three times. Every component part of the faces is distinctly formed in each, and both of them present the pleasing countenances of two @ﬁne babes. At that part of one of the faces where the usual formation of the ear takes place, the additional face commences, with a slight un- dulation towards the cheek of the second face, which then proceeds through all its regular features until it terminates at the left ear-so that the face on the right side has one ear, and the face on the left one also. The space on the back of the head is, from the encroachment of the faces, very limited but it is, as well as the upper part of the head, covered with hair. In all other respects the child is regularly formed.-Taunton Courier.  little before three o'clock this morning, Tuesday a cry of @ﬁre from several voices aroused the neighbourhood of York‐House. The @ﬁre @ﬁrst made its appearance from a window or aperture under the lofty gateway of York House yard. It is supposed to have originated in the upper room of Mr. Simpkins, saddler, who occupies the house fronting Broad‐street, on the right hand side of the gateway. The strength of the @ﬂames from this aperture was evidently very powerful, as if the @ﬁre had been sti@ﬂed for some time until it had gained a current which enabled it to burst forth with terri@ﬁc fury. The proprietor of York House, Mr. Reilly, and his sons, were immediately aroused, and were with the utmost promptitude on the spot. The inmates of the bedchambers were also quickly down stairs, with their luggage. The engines were shortly brought, and the various reservoirs of water n the neighbourhood were soon opened. The @ﬁre, however, increased until the whole of the immense pile of buildings including the shops of Mr. Simpkins, and Mr. Knight, broker, which are under the ball- room were in one devouring blaze ! Mr. Reilly's plate was all saved. We hear that the stock and furniture were  Entrance in Church‐L@ane, and@@ fronting the Market‐Place, at present in the occupation of Messrs. EGLIN  particulars inquire at No. 16, Market‐Place. Hull, Dec. 24, 1827. @@EAGLE LIFE ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION, 83, CORN@HILL, AND 10, WAT@ERLOO‐PLACE, ESTABLISHED 1807. Distinct@ Tables for Male and Female Life. T HE Directors have caused New Tables to be calculated, on which the relative values of the Lives of the two sexes are, at all ages, distinguished, in consequence of this improvement. The Younger Male Lives are insured at premiums below the ordinary rates. The Female Lives at rates lower than any other O@@ﬃce. Life Assurance may be e@ﬀected for North and South America@ for t@he East Indies, for any of the British Colonies or Garrisons, for a continual or an especial Maritime risk, for the whole of Life, or for the duration of any Military, Civil, or Diplomatic Duty. Four@‐ﬁfths of the Pro@ﬁts are divided among the Assured, whether at Home or Abroad. HENRY P. SMITH, Actuary. Agent for HULL........ o'cl@ock BETTING AT TATTERS@ALL'S, THURSDAY. Mr. Thornhill's Merchant, and Sir T. Mostyn's Ultimatum, increased the St. Leger @ﬁeld, to‐day, and were backed to a considerable amount.-Johanna Southcote not yet named for it was also backed. The north country nomination for the St. Leger is not yet very great. The odds closed thus -DERBY.-7 to 1 agst Merchant 9 to 1 agst The Colonel 11 to 1 agst Sorcery colt 15 to 1 agst Druid 20 to 1 agst Shoveler colt 22 to 1 agst Folly colt 22 to 1 agst Amy colt @@22 to agst Johanna Southcote celt 24 to 1 agst. Mariner 25 to 1 agst each of Lord Grosvenor's 25 to 1 agst Omen 25 to 1 agst any other@@. 500 to 400 Johanna Southcote agst Amy, taken . ST. LEGER.-The only horses backed were-25 to 1 agst Merchant taken . 30 to @1 agst Ultimatum, taken . 50 to 1 agst Stapleton taken . 50 to 1 agst Johanna Southcote colt taken . @Lord Lowther's Derby colt, Punster, is dead. Mr. Payne's Derby colt by S@molensko, out of Lady Ern, is gone to Van Dieman's Land. Sir Bellingham Graham and Mr. Best, members of the Malton Coursing Society, have purchased, of Mr. Hassall, at the price of ﬁft@y guineas, the celebrated greyhound, Hercules. He has been beaten only @ﬁve times out of thirty‐four courses, that he has run at the meetings of established Coursing Societies. He has won three cups, and one goblet.  following draft from Lord Southampton's stud was sold by Messrs. Tattersall, on Monday week' Silvertail, £126 Edwin, £23 10s. Exchange, £73 @10s. Mountaineer, £59 17s. Ashton, £45 3s. Hotspur, £50 Strawberry, £64 1@s. Rubena, by Rubens, out of Louisa, by Pegasus, was bought in. All the horses are well known in Leicestershire. THE RING.  second deposit for this @ﬁght was made good on Wednesday evening, at Josh. Hudson's, Half Moon Tap, Leadenhall- market. The odds on Ned Neal are 7 to 4, and 2 to 1. The @ﬁght is to take place on the 11th of March. BROWN of Bridgnorth  men are matched for £250 a‐side the @ﬁght to come o@ﬀ half way between Birmingham and Bridgnorth, on Tuesday the 8th of April, Easter Tuesday. The parties met on Monday evening, at the Woodman, Birmingham, in consequence of an invitation from Brown. Sampson is the favorite with the Bru@mma‐ gem Fancy, who have thus taken the lead of the Londoners, and robbed Jem Ward ofhis chance. JACK CARTER, once a candidate for the championship, will be discharged from the hulks at Chatham, in a few days. He solemnly protests his inno- cence of the crime of which he was found guilty-that of stealing a coach parcel and promises to make that innocence apparent to the world. MISCELLANEOUS NEWS. The King has presented the Birmingham Musical Festival Committee with a copy of Dr. Arnold's valuable edition of Handel's Works, in 43 folio volumes. Don Miguel was hourly expected at Gravesend, but@ ad not arrived on Saturday afternoon. It is not generally known that his late Royal Highness the Duke of York left a family of a son and daughter, the latter of whom is married, and is the @mother of some most beautiful children, whose likeness to their grandfather is very  thus fallen a prey to the destructive element, may be  his re- turn to this country. Before quitting the Irish metropolis, he was splendidly entertained at a public dinner, given by the Roman Catholics. The Gazette of Friday night contains some diplomatic appointments, of which the chief are, that of Sir W. A'Court from Portugal to St. Petersburgh, and that of Sir F. Lamb, with a step in rank, from Spain to Portugal. Poor Mr. Ex‐Sheri@ﬀ Parkins is con@ﬁned with a broken leg, which he got in a wrestling bout with a fellow lodger at an hotel in this city.-Letter from Quebec.  understand that the produce of the revenue during the present quarter, up to the beginning of the week, is less by upwards of £300,000 than in the cor- responding quarter of last year.-Chronicle. On the above subject, the Times says-The belief prevails that the quarterly accounts will exhibit a considerable de@ﬁciency, as compared with the corresponding quarterly return of the preceding year. The Watchman says the de@ﬁciency will be £400,000 and the Standard, £600,000. We understand that a further exportation of about 180,000 ounces of silver coin took place on Saturday last, by a vessel which left the river for Calais on that day. There was also about 2,000 ounces of gold bullion sent to Rotterdam at the same time. Nearly the whole of the above quantity has been shipped through the medium of an agent of Mr. Rothschild.-Globe of Wednesday. The business of the branch of the Bank of England, estab‐ lished at Exeter, commenced on Monday morning week, at their banking‐house, Southernhay‐place, under the charge of H. P. Hyde, Esq. agent, and G. C. Holroyd, Esq. sub‐agent.-This is one of the places which lately memorialized against a branch being established there.  Two bunches a penny prim- roses ! was crying on Monday morning week at Newington and several parts of London. The Thames Tunnel Company have obtained a loan from government, with interest at only two per cent., su@@ﬃcient for the completion of the undertaking. A new code of signals is to be brought into general use in the navy, as soon as possible.  ten days ago, Mr. Martyn, an engraver in Holborn, received a letter by the post, dated Darlington, Durham, signed James Brown, stating that the writer could give him a lucrative order, the particulars of which could not be communicated, unless he @ﬁrst gave him a solemn assurance of inviolable secrecy. Mr. Martyn, after some consideration, showed it to Sir R. Birnie, who recommended him to promise secrecy, and request his correspondent to be more explicit. Mr. Martyn complied with the advice, and next post brought up an answer, inclosing a £1 note of the Sunderland Bank, an@d requesting that a note for plates exactly similar might be en- graved, as the writer had an opportunity of setting @ﬁve hun‐ dred of them a@ﬂoat, without fear of detection. This letter, with its inclosure, was handed to Sir R. Birnie, who imme- diately held a conference with Mr. Gates, solicitor to the Committee of Bankers, the result of which was, that Taunton, the o@@ﬃcer, was sent to Darlington, where he succeeded in apprehending the writer and on searching his lodging, found the letter which Mr. Martyn had written, and a seal corres- ponding with the impression on those he had received.-Taunton has not yet returned, nor has any advice of an examination of the prisoner in the country been received.-London Paper. The Newcastle Courant states, that the de- linquent's name is Edward Brown, and that he is a sur- geon in respectable  70 in height. The whole of the costly furniture and e@ﬀects in this extensive range was destroyed so that the premises are now a mere shell. Mr. Dallimore's loss, of the Turk's Head, must be very considerable, as nearly all the furniture was destroyed,@@ and seven or eight pieces of strong beer, containing from 2 to 3000 gallons each, which were in his cellars, burst, and of @@course the contents were lost. A quantity of malt and hops was also consumed. @Half‐past 12 p. m.-Since writing the above, the part of the building above the saddler's shop, which was of great height, has fallen in with a tremendous crash. No injury done.-Bath Gazette, Dec. 25. HULL GENERAL INFIRMARY. IN‐PATIENTS.S.  by the House‐surgeon ... 15. Dr. Alderson, Physician-Mr. Young, Surgeon. Mr. Robert Corlass, Ho@use‐visitor. Chaplain, Rev. J.  this season was celebrated on Thursday night, at the Argyll Rooms, under the direction of the celebrated Charles Wright. The name of that indefatigable purveyor of Champagne is so iden- ti@ﬁed with all masquerades in the metropolis, that it is di@ﬃ- cult to separate them and it, even in idea. His name needs only to be announced to attract all the lovers of fun. The rooms were well @ﬁlled, and the various natives of ﬁre, of air, of earth, of water, displayed themselves for the amusement of their friends and of themselves good humour and Wright's Sparkling were the main objects of attention. It has some- times happened that the frequenters of these motley scenes have deemed laughter injurious to their health, if we might judge by their extreme abstinence from it. But the merry@ of Thursday evening seemed very gluttons in  critics might think. If they did only sometimes @@please, at least they always had the desire to do so and those present generally gave them credit for the former, through the merits of the latter. We will here conclude by observing that Charles Wright has, with this masquerade, added a new@@ claim to the many he already possesses on public  the lady of J. Spencer Stanhope, Esq. of a son and heir. MARRIA@GES. On Wednesday last, at Sculcoates church, Mr. B. Lewis, cooper, to Miss Mary Skinn, both of this place. On Sunday week, at Christ's Church, by the Rev. John King, M. A. Mr. Robert Harrison, of the Bail, Lincoln, to Miss Johnson, of the Ladies' Seminary, Sykes‐street, in this town. On Thursday week, Mr. John Spence, of Halifax, gent. to Mrs. Hodgson, relict of the late John Hodgson, Esq. formerly of Hull. On Sunday week, at @St. Mary's Church, Beverley, @Mr. George Medcalt, cooper, to Ann, eldest daughter of Mr. E. Jones, all of that place. On Saturday week, at Lockington, by the Rev. Francis Lundy, Mr. W. Cook, to Rebecca, youngest daughter of Mr. Robert Hardy, all of the same place. On Tuesday last, at Grimsby, Mr. Bowen, exciseman, to Miss Mary Web- ster, both of that place. On the 22d ult. at Eston in Cleveland, Mr. Wm. M'Cree, to Miss Bean. DEATHS. Last night, after an illness of only two hours, to the inexpresssible grief of his family and friends, Mr. Thomas Randerson, tailor, aged 60. He was an honest, upright man, and will be sincerely regretted by all who knew him. On Sunday night, aged 52, universally regretted, Mr. George Scaum, of this town, formerly a respectable bookseller at Scarborough, and father to Mr. G. Scaum, bookseller, of Beverley. On the 16th ult. aged 49, Ann, the beloved and a@ﬀectionate wife of Mr. @William Morley, merchant, of Doncaster. The calm serenity with which, through divine grace, she was enabled to meet death, serves to soothe the grief of her bereaved family and mourning friends. At Colombo, Island of Ceylon, on the 30th June last, aged 24, Margaret, the beloved wife of the Rev, Benjamin Clough, Wesleyan missionary, and daughter of Mr. William Morley, merchant, of Doncaster and though the climate made it necessary the interment should take place the next day, yet, with this short notice, so highly was she valued, that the greater part of the respectable European inhabitants of the city attended the funeral in deep mourning and Sir Richard Ottley, the Chief Justice, and some other @gentle@men of the colony, have made preparations to erect a monument to her remembrance, at their own expense, as a small token of the public estimation in which she was held during her residence of two years on the island. On Saturday morning, in Parliament‐street, in this town, aged 57, Eliza- beth, the wife of Mr. Peter Marshall, late of Scarborough. On Friday last, aged 68, Mr. Joseph Tum@mon, of this place, broker upwards of forty years in the @employ of Messrs. Smiths and Co. Gainsbro'. On Tuesday morning last, much respected, aged 66, Mr. George Leng, of this place, schoolmaster. On Wednesday last, aged 12 months, R. S. Kirk, son of Mr. Kirk, of this town, draper. On Thursday last, aged 22, Thomas Boynton, son of Mr. Geo. Morley, innkeeper, Market‐place, in this town. On Sunday morning week, aged 22, Alfred, youngest son of Mr. George Cookman, of this town. At t@he Colleges of Glasgow and Edinburgh, he had attained very gratifying literary distinction, and proceeded to the degree of Master of Arts. Through a lingering decline, he evinced the most entire resignation to the divine will, with a calm and cheerful con@ﬁdence of a blessed immortality. On Sunday week, in his 55th year, Robert Woodhouse, Esq. Plumian Professor in the University of Cambridge, and nephew to Dr. Alderson, of this town. On Wednesday last, much respected, aged 73, Mr. William Cash, of Beverley. On Wednesday morning last, after a long illness, aged 31, Charlotte, wife of Mr. Matthew Robinson, farmer, of South Cave. On the 18th ult. at Brandesburton, aged 28, Rebecca, eldest daughter of Mr. Henry Edmunds, late of the Cross Keys, at that place. Yesterday week, at Grimsby, Mr. James Goulton, of that place, merchant. @On Fr Miss Jane Close, daughter of the late Mr. Thos. Close, of Whitby, stonemason. On Tuesday last, Mrs. Marwood, widow of the late Mr. John Marwood, of Whitby, ship‐owner. On Christ@mas‐day, after a long and painful a@fﬂiction, borne with truly christian fortitude and exemplary patience, aged 58, Helen, mother of Capt. Darling, at his residence, @Thorpe Bassett Academy, near Malton.  protracted and severe illness, aged 59, Mrs. Shep- herd, wife of Mr. Wm. Shepherd, of  Esq. of Rose Hill, near Rotherham. On the 20th ult. aged 23, Mr. Thomas Waites, of Sowerby, near Thirsk. On the @19th ult. the Rev. Christopher Anstey, vicar of Norton, near Stock- ton, the reputed author of the Bath Guide. ld@s,nterested exertions in t@he cause of su@ﬀering humanity, is acknowledged to be a public los -, from this port.  Fortuna, Bakker, from this port.  Hope, Fea Diadem, Draper P@ac@@ket, Roach Gale, Briggs @@Thornton, Hall @@@Active, Tucker all from this port. At ANTWERP-The Rebecca, Anderson, from this port. At DEAL-The  @@Ellen, Allison, from Charente Frances, Parker, from this port, for  WHITBY, on the 28th ult.-The Foster, Bennett, from Quebec, bound to this port. At BA@HIA-The Express, Day, from Gibraltar. At HELVOET-The Apollo, Fairburn, from this port. O@ﬀ MARGATE-The Ipswich, Combs, from Mira@michi, returned, having been driven o@ﬀ by the ice. In the TEXEL-The Mercurius, B@akker, from this port.  Sun, Tieman, from London to Lubeck, Jonge Jurgen, Bru@hn, from Oxenzee to London both  having been surrounded with ice. Winds at @Deal-Dec. 24, WSW. squally 25, W. to WSW.@ 26, SW. 27, WSW. Winds at Falmouth-Dec. 24, W. fresh beeezes and squally@, 25, SW., 26, SW. fresh breezes.  Ann, Foster Sneaton, Wilson from London. Smales, Grey Alert, Mowatt Oak, H@ill from Hull. Yarm, Hall EIeanor@@@ Ann, Davison from Sunderland. John and Mary, Miller Minerva, Barnard from Stockton. Union, Smith, from Newcastle. Sisters, Boulton, from Alloa.  Webster Sisters, Boulton for London. Yarm, Hall, for Hull. Brighton, December 21.-The Spring, from Bombay, which was driven on shore near Pagham, has become a complete wreck. Yarmouth, Dec. 19.-The Vine, Nixon, of So@ut@h Shields, was run down on t@he night of t@he 17th inst. by the Brothers, Reed, of South Shields crew landed here. Dec. 21.-@The Leander, Webb, of Shields, struck o@n the Scroby Sand last night, but got o@ﬀ, and was assisted i@@n by a boat. The Hope, of Sunderland, went on t@he Scroby last night and sunk. Crew and materials saved. Harwich, Dec. 21.-One of t@he three vessels reported on@@@@@ 19th inst. to be on shore on the Gun@ﬂeet Sand, is t@he Vesta, Thompson, from Memel, to London she @ﬁlls every tide materials likely to be saved. 7 p. m.-Two smacks have just arrived from t@he G@unﬂeet with tallow and hides, being part of t@he cargo of the Brothers, Steward, from Petersburg, it is expected she will become a wreck, but most part of t@he cargo will be saved. Liverpool, Dec. 24.-T@he wreck of the ship Favourite supposed of Shields was fallen in with by the Ann Elizabeth, from Malaga to Boston. @Limerick, Dec. 17.-A British‐built vessel of about 250 tons, timber- laden, sides painted yellow, no ports or head, masts gone, water‐ logged, and abandoned, was fallen i@n with on t@he 5th inst. in lat. 50. long. 30. by t@he Liverpool, Phillips, arrived here from Baltimore. Memel, Dec. 15.-T@he Union, Douglas, of Whitby, stranded here on the 29t@h October, was entirely broken up by the heavy gale on the 9th and 10th instant. The weather is quite mild, and our harbour free from ice. Bremen, Dec. 14.-The Diligente, Menke,@@ which sailed on the 17th ult. for Hull, has put back with damage. Hamburg, @Dec. 11.-The Haabet, List, and the Apollo, Dunn, from Nordersluice to Hull, with oats, sailed thence on the 18th of Octo@ber, and have not since been heard of. A trunk, with papers relative to the latter, has been washed on shore at Norden, East Friesland. Dec. 14.-The Emma, Lamb, from Riga, ran aground on Saltholms, has got o@ﬀ and put into Copenhagen. Texel, December 17.-@The Science, Allen, from London to Hambro , was totally lost on t@he 15th. Crew saved. Amsterdam, Dec. 15.-The Rika, S@@mit, which sailed on the 28th of October, from the Texel for Hull, @has not since been heard of. The William, Dick, from Rotterdam to Dundee, has put back, damaged. Santa Cruz, Teneriﬀe, @Nov. 12.-T@he Oly@mpe, Quesnel, from Havre to Monte Video and @Bu@enos Ayres, was wrecked t@he end of Iast month on the coast of Africa. The passengers about 300, French, English, Germans, and Swiss were saved by some Canary @ﬁshing boats, and brought here on the 7th instant. In t@he Buenos Ayres papers, under date October 13, it is stated that t@he Brazilian brig of war, Twenty‐ninth of August, Captain Wilson, was lost near Colonia, a few days since. The Captain, son of Sir Robert Wilson with t@he greater part of the crew, drowned. Douglas, Isle of Man, December 15.-During the severe storms which have visited the coasts of the Isle of Man within the last week, the Swedish barque Fortroender, of Carlserona, Andrew Akerman master, from Marseilles, bound to Glasgow, with a valuable cargo of madder, put into Derby haven, where she took on board a pilot and four men in addition to @her crew of twelve, but during the violent gale of t@he 10th inst. she was compelled to leave her anchor in that Bay, and endeavoured to reach Douglas harbour. Having failed in the attempt, she let go her remaining anchor, but from which she soon after drifted among t@he breakers on the outside of t@he dangerous insulated rock of St. Mary, in Douglas Bay, and with the @ﬁrst stroke unshipped @her rudder, and lay in a very hazardous state. The life boat, t@he boat of his Majesty's cutter Swallow, and two harbour boats, put oﬀ to her assistance. It was @@ﬁst attempted by means of hawsers to bring the vessel into port, but on her striking on the rock sand bilging, this w@as given up, and t@he life‐boat by letting go her anchor to windward, and veering down upon the wreck, was enabled to take all the people and most of their personal luggage from her lee bow the boat of the Swallow relieved her of part of them, and the whole were thus rescued and brought in safety to Douglas, where every requisite ac‐ commodation was provided for them by the Isle of Man Shipwreck Association. On Tuesday a small part of her cargo was landed@ but from the severity of t@he weather on Wednesday and Thursday, her masts were carried away, and t@he hull completely broken up. In the services rendered to t@his vessel, t@he boat of his Majesty's cruiser Swallow, was commanded by Lieut. Strugnell, R.N., who rendered every assistance in his power. Sir Wm. Hillary had with him in the life‐boat Lieut. Gretrix, R.N., Lieut. Robinson, R.N., and Mr. Hillary. Mr. M'Meiken, agent for packets, also attended in his boat. A tribute of respect is due to the prompt attention of the worthy Baronet, who was as usual the @ﬁrst to aid the wreck and save t@he crew.-Cumberland Pacquet.  the 24th inst. the half‐yearly amount of the dock duties was made up. It presents the gratifying feature of a@n increase over the corresponding half‐year of 1826. The number of vessels which have entered the port even exceed t@he corresponding half‐year of the celebrated year 1825. SOUND LIST.  Dec. 18.-The Monarch, Harrison, of Whitby, from Memel, put into Copenhagen, leaky, on the 15th. The ships mentioned in our last remain. Winds-Dec. 9, 10. W. 11, 12, S. 13, S. to SE. 14, 15, S. to SW. 16, SW. 17, W. 18, SW. HULL-FOREIGN ARRIVED.-From  surviving relative, a grandfather.  aged 23, Miss Reid, only daughter of David  near Fermoy. She was to have been married to of the 3rd Dragoon Guards, on Tuesday morning b@ set her night‐dress on @ﬁre, and was so dreadfully burnt that she expired two days  Bouch Ann, Walker. Quebec, Foster, Bennett. @Riga, Betsey Black, Forman. Terceira, Vine,  24. Alicant,  27. Amsterd@am, Jonge David, Kup‐ per. Antwerp, Etton, Vollans. COASTERS ARRIVED.-From Aberdeen, Fox, Gilbertson. Alemouth, Brothers, Marshall. Dublin, Vigilant, Evans. Dundee, Fife Packet, Buist. Glasgow, Gratitude, Dick. Leith, Hero, Scott John Watson, Tyrie. Lynn, Ellen, Hinchcli@ﬀ Blag- don, Robinson Agenoria, Rip-  Adam Irwell, Barron. Rotterdam, Providence Good In- tent, Atkinson. Dec. 29. Charente, York Merchant, Blake. London, Humber, Naylor. Newcastle, Margaret, Ramm@ Emma, Stark. Scarbro', Ribston, Salmon. Sligo, Margaret, Finlay. Stockton, Cynthia, Mellanby. Sunderland, William and Mary, Barton. Yarmouth, Elizabeth and Mary,  Argo, Hood. Burnham, May@ﬂower, Atkinson. Dundee, Tay, Wann. Leith, Trent, Calder Happy Re- turn, Figgins. London, Mary, Chambers Man- chester, Cusworth Ebenezer, Dalton Ino, Laverack. Lynn, Dove, Garner Endeavour, Hamilton Thomas and Ann, Hodgson . Stockton, Argo, Evatts. Shields, Edward, Paul Friends, Henry Salacia, Grimston. Spalding, Bee, Townend Eliza, Tulley Blessing, Seymour. Sunderland, Wells Packet, Wabon@ Planter, Woodhouse Thomas and William, Floodman. Wells, Hopewell, Curson. Whitby, Alert, Mowatt Speed- well, Clark. Yarmouth, Providence,  Feasts, Fasts, @@c. Full Moon. Epiphany. The Royal Charter Steam Packet, for Barton, sails daily at Ten in the forenoon, and at One and Four in the afternoon.
 that the@ malady might in part be acca- sioned by a fever which be brought on himself by over exertions at the Liverpool Election, where he actively and warmly supported Gen. Tarle@ton's interest. T@he marriage of the plainti@ﬀ and his wife was proved in the year 1798. Mr. Carey and Mr. Dixon proved that the plainti@ﬀ and his wife lived on harmonious terms.@ Mr. Wilkinson, clerk to @the plainti@ﬀ, and who had been a con@ﬁdential servant of his father's, said they lived on good terms.-On cross‐examination, he said that the de- fendant frequently dined at@ their house and always handed Mrs. Parr out@@@ the room. He also usually followed her a short time afterwards. He o@nce heard the plainti@ﬀ say, come back Ralph and divert your time, and leave Mary to herself. Several other witnesses were called, who spoke nearly to the same facts, and that the defendant and Mrs. Parr w@ere frequently together, but they did not see any thing improper pass between them. Mr. D. Parr, brother to the plainti@ﬀ, also spoke to the a@ﬀectionate manner in which the plainti@ﬀ and his wife lived. He stated, that after the discovery of Mrs. Parr's in@ﬁdelity, his brother became melancholy, and at length so deranged that @he was obliged to be committed to the care of Dr. Chute, of Liverpool. O@n cross‐examination by Mr. GARROW, he said that his brother had been de- ranged before that time, and he attributed it to his over exertions at the Liverpool Election. Jane Hughes, servant to the plainti@ﬀ, said, in the year 1805, Mr. Benson was frequent in his visits at their house and she observed great familiarities between him and her mistress.- The evidence of this witness f@ully proved the criminal intercourse but it is wholly un@ﬁt for t@he columns of any decent Newspaper. @@@@ for the defendant, contended it was not @a case for damages, inasmuch as the plainti@ﬀ had brought his misfortune on himself by his own misconduct in neglect- ing his wife, and exposing her to improper liberties, which he su@ﬀered to be taken with her in hi@s presence, without remonstrance, or apparently caring for them. To prove this a Mrs. Jones, Mrs. C. Jones, and Philips, a waiter at the White Lion, Shrewsbury, were called, @who proved the following facts -That in August, 1806, Mr. and Mrs. Parr, and Mr. Benson, were at t@he Shrews- bury Races together. They could not be accommodated with beds at the White Lion, and were obliged to get beds at an adjoining house.@ Mr. Parr did not sleep with his wife, but in the best bed below, and Mrs. Parr slept in a bed without curtains adjoining to Mr. Benson's bed- room but at that t@ime Parr @had a shade over his eyes, a@nd appeared rather @unwell. The waiters at the inn at @ﬁrst thought Mrs. Parr was Benson's wife, @but when they discovered she was Parr's, they made it a joke, that Ben- son paid for all, and kept both husband and wife. @@Several other witnesses were called, who proved, that familiarities had passed in the@ presence of the plainti@ﬀ, s@uc@h as correctly ought not to have been passed over by a husband without notice. Lord  the evidence at length, and said it was a case for their serious consideration be left if for them to determine, whether the plainti@ﬀ had been consenting to his own disgrace, and whether at least he had not been culpably negligent. The Jury found for the plainti@ﬀ-Damages, 10001. The damages were laid at 30,001. Saturday, Dec. 24.@@@ BOYDE@LL v DRUMMOND. The  opened this case with a high panegyric on the late and present Alderman Boydell, as patrons of the elegant arts of Painting and Engraving. They had in a great @degree contributed to advance them to a state of comparative excellence, and had turned the balance of trade in Engravings against foreigners, by their liberal encouragement @@of native Artists. In the year 1786, they issued a Prospectus of their great work from Shakespear, in which they proposed to present their sub- scribers with 72 prints from as many paintings, to be ex- ecuted by the most distinguished artists of that time. They were to be delivered to the subscribers annually, in a number containing four prints,@ to be executed in the line and chalk styles of engraving. The number was after- wards encreased to @ﬁve. They embarked one hundred thousand pounds in this grand concern. On the 1st of May, 1789, the Shakspear Gallery in Pall @Mall was opened with thirty‐four of@ the Paintings, and in March 179@0, @ﬁfty‐six paintings were there exhibited, and ten specimens of the plates, in line and dotting. The Sub- scribers had then an opportunity of examining, with con- siderable accuracy, the nature of the work , to which they were a@@ﬃxing their names. In this progress of the work, the Plainti@ﬀ became a subscriber, received his @ﬁrst number, and paid a guinea in advance for the next, which he also ha@d but declined sending for any more as the work, he afterwards asserted, was not so good as he was led to expect. This, Sir V. GIBBS contended, was an unfair objection that the Subscribers had no right to expect uniform excellence in the di@ﬀerent performance that the work was executed in a style equal to the ta- lents of the country at the period of its progressive ac- complishment, and with the most liberal remuneration@ of the Artists. Out of the 1300 Subscribers, above 600 refused, at various times, @to continue their subscription. Was this conduct@ in Subscribers, said Sir V. GIBBS, to be sanctioned by a Co@urt of Law, the Arts would su@ﬀer a serious injury @as who would venture to publish works on a large and expensive scale ? His client was entitled to a verdict, as he had ful@ﬁlled, in every respect, the con- ditions of his Prospectus. Mr. Clay, clerk to the late Alder@man Boydell, proved, together with some of the above facts, that the prints were ready for delivery in succession, agreeably to the date of their subscription that 1304 prints were struck o@@ﬀ to be delivered to the Subscribers, before those which were@ designed for Non‐subscribers.-On cross‐examination, he admitted that the line is considered, by the competent judges in Art, much superior in excellence to the chalk style takes twice the time to engrave is more than double the expense and that, in the early period of@@ the Work, in the year 1790, there were twenty‐three of the latter to four of the former.r. Mr. Harrison, formerly a clerk to Alderman Boydell, said that if all the prints had been @engraved in@ a style equal to those which had been engraved in the line man- ner, only one instead of four could have been produced in a year, and that the entire work would have taken forty years to @ﬁnish.-@In the course of evidence for the Plain- ti@ﬀ it appeared, that one of the painters and four of the engravers promised were not employed that out of @ﬁve prints at one time hung up as specimens, only one was in the line, and at another only two were line to fourteen chalk that Mr. Drummond was not applied to individu- ally, for the payment of a@ third subscription that an advertisement, addressed generally to the subscribers, had appeared on the publication of that and subsequent num- bers, in all the daily papers and that in the year 1806 the remaining numbers were tendered to Mr. Drummond, and refused. The trial here abruptly terminated without hearing Counsel or witness for the Defendant, for Plainti@ﬀ not being able to shew that he had made a demand on Mr. Drummond for six years, even if he ought to be held bound by the Prospectus, the Statute of Limitation, it was contended, barred the Plainti@ﬀ's recovery. After a good deal of argument, the facts were agreed to be turned into a special case, and the opinion of the Court to be taken on the main questions, whether there was any agree- ment bet@ween the parties su@@ﬃcient to gro@und this action, and whether the Defendant could be made liable by t
 beters I entertain unfeigned respect. Between  seemed to me to be of small amount I have, therefore,  has ever been the war cry which the base, the ignorant, the intolerant, and the canting tribe have raised against the great, the noble, and the generous spirits of the human race. That cry you, Mr Miall, have attempted to raise against the works which I have edited. I now again solemnly call on you before these, the electors of Southwark, whom you wish to repre- sent in Parliament-I challenge you to make good your assertions. If you shrink from the attempt, or fail, as fail you will, then I accuse you before your fellow‐citizens of having brought this charge against me for base electioneer- ing purposes. I brand you as a calumniator, and appeal to the poll of to‐morrow.  beginning of this contest deeply regretted the division that exists between us. Hear, hear. I wished that our united forces should do battle to the common enemy. I o@ﬀered to agree to any fair compromise. I pro- mised to retire from the @ﬁeld if I were the weaker, and to give all the assistance in my power to your candidate. These o@ﬀers your candidate rejected, and the contest went on. Still I hoped that no angry feelings would arise be- tween us. I trusted we should abstain from personalities towards each other, and that this would be a calm contest of reason. In these my hopes I have been disappointed, and for that disappointment I am not to blame. Not one word of disrespect-not one syllable of reproach did I  ever ready@ blow ? You, Mr. Miall! You quitted the high  ground of argument. You descended into the arena of a@@@@@@@buse. You accused me of dishonesty on account of my opinions with regard to Maynooth. You taxed me with  sincerity because I possessed property in the Church of England you called upon the Dissenters of Southwark to shrink with horror from my opinions you attempted to excite religious animosity and rancour against me like an inquisitor of old, you presume to question me on my re- ligious belief, and to summon me before the tribunal of your private judgment. I am glad to meet you here to- day, face to face, to answer you, to sco@ﬀ at your pretensions, and to bid you de@ﬁance. I tell you, in the name of re- ligious liberty and equality, that no man has a right to interfere with the religious opinions of another man that no man has a right to question or blame the belief of his neighbour. I tell you that in your conduct and language towards me you have been untrue to the great principle of religious liberty-you have been without that charity which is the essence of religious liberty. You have denounced me as the editor of the works of Hobbes of Malmesbury. Electors, I am proud of the fact@ I will rest upon it a claim to your support, in opposition to the claim of Mr. Miall. He is the editor of the ' Nonconformist.' I am the editor of Hobbes. To compare the two works together would be like comparing the vastest mountain on the earth's surface with the smallest mole‐hill. The works of Hobbes will last more centuries than the ' Nonconformist' will days. The writings of Hobbes will live as long as the Anglo‐Saxon race and language. They will be read age after age by the studious amongst the millions of our race who will people the two Americas and the islands of the Southern Ocean, and who will wonder at the ignorant and bigoted herd who dared to assail so great a master of thought and language. As one of that herd, Mr. Miall, it is your only chance of escaping oblivion. When I com- menced this contest I was told by one of Mr Miall's ad- mirers thas he was a retired accomplished student, skilled in literature, a lover of learning and wisdom, an acute rea- soner, an able writer, and in every way well @ﬁtted to in- struct the nation through the public press. I did believe all this, and I felt almost ashamed of entering into a con- test with such a person. Now, I ask you, electors, has Mr Miall's conduct with regard to Hobbes been in con- formity with the character I have just given ? If you, Mr Miall, had any love of learning, any regard for the litera- ture of your country, any reverence for the wisdom of past times, any admiration for beauty of language, vigour of expression, vigour of logic, and boldness of reasoning, though you might, like myself, deem many of Hobbe's opinions erroneous, though you might reject the whole of his doctrines, yet you would have accorded praise, not blame, to me for enabling the student to peruse the works of one of England's most illustrious authors. No, like that Mahometan warrior and bigot, who destroyed the wisdom of ages, you would burn every work, and consume all lite- rature that in the slightest degree was at variance with your limited notions-with your own Koran. You have denounced me as the editor of an in@ﬁdel work I have challenged you, and again challenge you, to make good your assertions. I have called upon you to point out one in@ﬁdel passage, one single sentence derogatory to Chris- tianity in the works of Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury. Have you, or have you not, read those works ? If you have not read them, what right have you to say that they are in@ﬁdel productions ? If you have read them, then point out one in@ﬁdel passage in them, one single sentence hostile to Christianity. I defy you to it. You have shrunk from the attempt. You have indirectly acknowledged that no such passages can be found in those works. Would it not have been manly and courageous lo have acknowledged your error-to have said that you had never read those works, and that you had been misled with regard to them ? Instead of doing this you have had recourse to subterfuge. First, you have talked about Gibbon. Now tell me, acute logician, able reasoner, what has Gibbon to do with Hobbes, or Hobbes with Gibbon ? Two minds more dissimilar can hardly be found than the philosopher of Malmesbury and the historian of the Roman Empire. Would you, the lover of knowledge, not only destroy the works of our greatest dialectician, but the writings, likewise, of our greatest his- torian ? Would you consign to the same @ﬂames the ' Le- viathan ' and the ' Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire ?' Secondly, you have insinuated that some of Hobbes' opinions lead to in@ﬁdelity. Prove it, I say. Now, I ask, is there a single work renowned in science, in literature, or in art, against which a similar charge has not been brought by some narrow‐minded bigot@? It is a well- known historical fact that every great discovery in astro- nomy, in natural history, in chemistry, or in any of the physical sciences -that everything which has made us better acquainted with the heavens, with the earth, and -Sir William Molesworth therefore polled 413 votes more than both his opponents united. IRELAND.  O'Connell has sent a subscription of twenty guineas towards the relief of the friends and survivors of the persons who lost their lives in the unhappy con@ﬂict at Ballinhassig. In the letter to Mr Philip O'Connell, of Cork, which accom- panies the donation, Mr O'Connell states that, after the fullest consideration of the verdict of the jurors who sat on the inquest after the Ballinnhassig a@ﬀair, he has arrived at the conclusion that he fears it is impossible to disturb it. In reference to the conduct of the police he says - 'Tis really shocking to think that the police should be employed, with deadly weapons in their hands, to decide upon the necessity of arresting persons not guilty of felonious or capital o@ﬀences. It is a bad system that sanctions the use of murderous weapons upon occa- sions where, even if the imputed crime of the slain were really proved, the utmost punishment could not exceed a small @ﬁne or a short imprisonment. @@ grand Orange soiree was held in the Music Hall of Belfast on the 4th inst., which was attended by about 1,000 persons, including Lord Roden, Colonel Verner, Mr Watson, Mr Cleland, and other ultra‐Orangemen of note. The hall was profusely hung with banners@ and decorations strongly expressive of the political and reli- gious opinions of the assembly. When tea was over Lord Roden was called to the chair, and the various notables expressed their sentiments in terms of deep sympathy for Mr Watson, and indignation at the conduct of Government. The speech made by the noble chair- man at the close of the soiree contained@ some passages which may be worth reproducing. Speaking of the act which deprived Mr Watson of the commission of the peace, he said, I cannot but think that it was an enor- mously harsh act of the Government to deprive such a man of the commission of the peace and I cannot but think that they themselves must feel that they have acted a very inconsiderate part in degrading that individual, who, in times of danger, acted with spirit in preserving the peace of the country. In reference to an observation of Colonel Verner, who looked upon him Lord Roden as the leader of the Protestants in Ireland, he said he felt himself totally unworthy of the distinction, but added he would give them all the assistance he could-a heart truly devoted to the Protestant interest of Ireland. It is now many years since @ﬁrst I belonged to the Orange Institution, and it was always my pride and happiness to belong to that loyal body. It was in the vigour of youth, when the body was active and the mind clear, that I joined that body and I can say that, in 1836, the period when that body was dissolved at the wish of the Sove- reign, its principles were nothing but loyalty to the Throne and Constitution of Great Britain yes, loyalty to the Crown of England was the great end and aim of those institutions. I do not know whether it is a crime to re- organize them now or not-I won't say but that will remain for those who know what is best to be done in these trying times to the Protestant interests of the country. Whether it were merely a singular coinci- dence, or a concerted stratagem on the part of the Orangemen, does not appear, but the fact of their having adopted the Roden livery gave his lordship singular pleasure - I feel happy that you have chosen for your colours orange and blue, to which you are so much at- tached. I am proud of that, for that happens to be the colour of the very ancient livery tremendous cheering of my own family. As the livery of the House of Orleans became the national colours of the French nation, so the old coat of the Joscelyns now @ﬂoats as the standard of the Orangemen in the same manner the apron of the blacksmith Gao was borne as the type of rebellion against the tyrant Zohâk. Lord Roden continued- I know not whether it is a crime, but I don't think it culpable  he experienced more happiness than on  occasion.-The 'Dublin Warder,' aweekly Orange journal, after referring to the Lisburn, Belfast, and other demonstrations, says, Preparations for other county meetings are in progress, and ere the close of this month the voice of Protestant Ireland will have declared to Peel her immutable determination to resist his unjust and ill- timed attempts to sti@fﬂe the expression of independent opinion in a free land. THE  not whether that I am worthy to be deprived of the com- mission of the peace but I do know that no persecution  the following announce- ment - We have reason to believe that the Government is now occupied with the choice of individuals to @ﬁll the o@@ﬃces of president and vice‐president of the new col- leges. In reply to applications made on their behalf, candidates, we understand, are informed that no selection has yet been made-that no engagements have been entered into, nor assurances given-that the choice will be determined solely by considerations of personal cha- racter and by moral and intellectual quali@ﬁcations. It is said that, in addition to apartments within the walls of the college, the presidents will receive about 800l. per annum, and the vice‐presidents 500l.  county has been the theatre of great excitement during the past week, in consequence of proposed de- monstrations, Catholic and Protestant, arising out of a singular cause. The following statement from the ' Dub- lin Evening Pilot' will explain the case - The friends of Mr Robert Henry Southwell having formed a project to raise from the Irish Catholics a sum of 55,000l. to re- purchase the Castle‐Hamilton estates for him, proclaimed a meeting to be held at Killeshandra on the 8th this day , to give stability to the project meanwhile Mr Southwell and the Rev. Dr Martin had an angry corre- spondence, which was made public. The Protestant party announced a meeting on the same day, and determined to take military possession of Killeshandra early on the morning of the 8th, alleging that the meeting of the Ca- tholics was to commemorate and take revenge for the battle of Ballynamuck 8th of September, 1798. Terror and confusion reigned through Cavan and Leitrim. Lord Farnham, with a courage equal to the occasion, issued a notice forbidding persons carrying arms to the meeting this was clearly aimed at the Orangemen. His lordship has collected a great military force, cavalry and infantry, and, after consulting with persons of all religious per- suasions, and having a@@ﬃdavits as to an impending breach of the peace, has issued a proclamation, the only course which could prevent a regular battle. The Scots Greys, from Dundalk, after a forced march, have just entered Cavan, where there also have arrived a general o@@ﬃcer and Major Priestly, from Dublin. The county is, thank God, @ﬁlled with troops. Lord Farnham will be in Kil- leshandra with four regiments at an early hour so it is to be hoped all will go o@ﬀ quietly. Besides Lord Farn- ham's proclamation, the magistrates issued a notice cau- tioning all persons against attending either of the meet- ings. It is satisfactory to be able to state, that subsequent accounts show that neither of the projected meetings took place. The troops were all in readiness, but fortunately there was no occasion for their services. The ' Dublin Evening Post' says - Our letters from Cavan state that all passed o@ﬀ quietly. The Catholic clergy, from their altars on Sunday, enforced the duty of obedience to the law, and of avoiding all occasions of strife and disturbance, and the result was, that the teetotallers, who had abandoned their perfectly legal meeting and noble purpose, a@ﬀorded no pretext for Orange violence or ag- gression. @Accounts from various parts of the country convey the most gra- tifying assurances of the bene@ﬁcial e@ﬀects which the last fortnight of @ﬁne weather has had upon the crops. The wheat has been partially injured-on that all are agreed but the extent of surface sown last season, and the saving in@ﬂuence of the present @ﬁne weather, will yield and bring to perfection at least an average crop. The oat crop is peculiarly @ﬁne in every part of the country, and will yield an abundant produce. In the counties of Wicklow, Wexford, Carlow, and Kildare, reaping has been in pro- gress during this week. In Meath, Westmeath, and far- ther north and west, the harvest is later but next week extensive tracts of country will be ready for the sickle, and the husbandman, we doubt not, will be amply re- warded, notwithstanding that the full measure of promise which the month of June held forth will not be realised. There has been a partial failure in the potato crop, but only on lands adjacent to the coast. Generally, however, this crop is excellent in quality, and the yield will be very abundant.  Archdall, father of the member for Fermanagh, who had been removed from the deputy‐lieutenancy of that county, for attending the Orange meeting in Ennis- killen on the 12th ult., will also be deprived of the com- mission of the peace. It is rumoured that supersedeases will soon be issued to the magistrates who attended at Lisburn, but as a marquis of large possessions is num- bered amongst them, it may be doubted whether the Go- vernment will have the courage to apply their own rule to the case of Lisburn.   was burnt and his person  a general meeting of the members of Lloyd's, held on Wednesday, a special vote of thanks to his Majesty the King of Den- mark, for a valuable set of charts presented to the estab- lishment by order of his Majesty, and likewise to the Royal Norwegian Finance Department at Christiania, for the valuable charts of, and sailing directions for, the north coast of Norway, presented by order of that depart- ment, was propose@ and carried unanimously. The honorary silver medal of Lloyd's to Lieutenant William Gould, R.N., and votes of money to seamen  opinions and, in our 
 Colonel W. H. Parkin, Mayor of Bodmin, d yesterday after a long illness. Miss Maud Bramwell, of Penzance, has won e Hopkinson gold medal at the Royal College of Music. @@The Rev. B. Mills yesterday accepted the iving of St. Paul's, Tiverton, o@ﬀered by the Earl of  R. Orme Webb, R. N. , was entertained by the Corpora- tion at a complimentary banquet last @@evening@@. The funeral of Mrs. Charles Wilson, wife@@ of the Rev. C. Wilson, formerly pastor of Sherwill Chapel, Plymouth, took place at Ply-@ mouth Cemetery this morning. @@Lord Coleridge was sued in the Westmin-ster County Court yesterday for £35 repairs done to to the premises of a club in Grafton- street of which hw is hon. secretary. Judge Lumley Smith held that defendant was not liable, and dismissed the action.n. Visitors at the Rougemont Hotel, Exeter this week include Mr MacKensize, Mr Ford, Mr Swanbro, Mr Pi@m, Mr S@mallbones, Miss Hart, Mr Norris, Mr Carpenter, Mr Masters, Rev Carter, Mr Sara, Mr Ballentine, Mr Cook, Mr Fryer, Mr Oldroyd, Mr Pope, Mr B Toose, Mr and Miss Taylor, Mr Hastings, Mr Fenn, Mr and Mrs Tetcombe, Mr Culien, Mr Brown, Mr Kappelo@ﬀ, Mr Knowles, Mr Buckingham, Mr Cope, Mr @Leicester, Mr Michal, Mr Edwards, Mr Goulding, Mr B Price, Mr Grant, General Stokes, Mr Bradbury, Mr Pahill, Mr Lyde, Mr Tyler, Mr and Mrs Mann, Mr Richardson, Rev Tremler, Mr Royle, Mr and Mrs Mrs Julien, Mr Lowe, Mr Aliston, Mr Andrewes, Mr Gabriel, Mr Borwick, Mr Jarmin, Mr Burey, Mr Sutton, Mr White, Mr, Stevenson, General and Mrs Buchanan, Mr Wright, Mr Donald, Mr Meindo, Mr Beelsey, Mr Simpson, Mr Morgan, Mr Lamb, Rev and Mrs Nevill Lovett. LOCAL NEWS. £500 INSURANCE.-In our sixth page will be found a coupon insuring our subscribers against railway accidents, the insurance being undertaken by the General Accident @Assurance Corporation, Limited. There was a large and fashionable audience @@@at the Theatre last evening to witness The @Private Secretary The company will terminate their stay in the city this evening. @Next week the drama At Duty's Call will occupy the boards.  -At the Constitutional Club last evening the Harmonic Society held a ladies' night. In the absence of Mr. Coun- illor Fulford, Mr Councillor Surridge, pre- sided over a good attendance, and a varied programme was gone through, the entertain- ment being demonstratively appreciated. GRANTED-Mr. J. W. Williams, of the xeter Inn, Barth@olomew-street, was granted it the Exeter Police Court this morning by Messrs J W Petherick, R R @M Daw, @H Gad@d, and W Brock, an occasional license to sell intoxicating liquors at the annual distribution of prizes to the Exeter Artillery Volunteers at the Victoria Hall on Friday, 14th inst.  will be preached in aid of this society to-morrow at Allhallows, Goldsmith- street, by the Rev. W. E Martlew in the morn- ing, and the Rev. Canon Trefusis in the after- noon at St. Mary Major at the children's service, 3, by the Rev. W. E. Martlew, who will preach at St. Paul in the evening, the Rector occupying the pulpit in the morning, and Canon Trefusis preaches at St. Stephen in the morning. The annual meeting will be held in the Chapter House on Monday, Cano@n Trefusis presiding. INQUEST.-Mr. Coroner Hooper held an inquest at 27, Melbourne-street, Exeter, this morning on the body of William Henry Staddon, aged 7 months, child of Emma Staddon, domestic servant, which was born in the Workhouse. Mrs. Woolgar said she was paid 4s a week to look after the infant, which she fed on thin corn @ﬂour and other things. On Monday it was taken bad in its inside, and she sent for Dr. Harrison, but it died on the Wednesday. Mr. Harrison, surgeon, said he was of the opinion that the child died from diarrhoea and convulsions, and the jury returned a verdict of Death from natural causes. @@@@ examinations for 12 open free scholarships in connection with this college will be held on January 30th in various local centres throughout the United Kingdom, allotted as as follows -Composition 1, singing 3, piano- forte 2, organ 1, violin 1, violoncello 1, wind instruments 3. The scholarships are open to all classes of her Majesty's subjects within she stated ages. They are each of the value of £40 a year, and entitle the holders to a syste@matic free education in music, and are as a rule tenable for three years. In some cases maintenance is added. Further in- formation and o@ﬀicial forms of application can be obtained on application to Mr. George Watson, secretary, Royal College of Music, Prince Consort-Road, Kensington, London, B.W., up to the end of December.  report-Patients admitted in Novem- ber, 174 total under care for the month, 524 discharged, 156 remaining under care, 368. New su@bscriptions-James Irish, Esq., The Cedars, Exeter, £1 1s Mrs Walsh, Rockbeare Court, £1 1s Mrs Edward Sanders, Stoke House, £1 1s Mrs Kavanagh. Sunneycroft, Exmouth, £1 1s Major Harries Depôt Devon Regiment , £1 1s Viscount Sidmouth, Upottery Manor, £1 1s Captain Thomas Sanders, 1. Ringmore-road, Shalden, £1 1s. Church collection-South@molton, per the Rev F King, £5 5s. Donations- A Friend, per @Mrs Walsh, £1 1s Hon Mark Rolle, Steve@n-@ stone, 50 rabbits. Benefactions and sub-@ scriptions will be thankfully received by A M @@H Walrond,@ Esq., Hon Treasurer, Exeter Bank or at the In@ﬁrmary, Magdalen-street, Exeter.-Advt. Ou@@r Double Acrostic. A township and a lake A mood you can't mistake A monarch of whom Shakespeare wrote A shire with solid Home Rule vote, A modern town upon an ancient site A very worth@@y well-known Israelite The miser's God the usurer's delight. My @ﬁrsts denote a ruler at the helm My @ﬁnals what he rules, that is, his realm. @a H O rinoc O S ia M The Local Government Act. Withdrawals. AXMINSTER. -The following have with- drawn from the District Council for the prishes of Axmou@th and Rousdon-Mr Sloman Colyton-Mr F Stokes, jun. and Mr Samuel White Chardstoc@k-Mr Bishop and Mr Pryer Kilmington-Mr W Trott Lime Regis-Mr Load and Mr Radford Thorn- combe-Mr W H Pinney. HONITON.-Messrs W Board, H Collins, and C Read have withdrawn their nominations as Guardians, and there will now be  Rev F B Dickin- son has withdrawn his candidature as  T G Palmer has with- drawn from the District Councillors' list. HARRERTON.-Mr Charles Towell, boot- maker, retires from the Guardians' election. SILVERTON.-Mr Bazley has withdrawn. his candiduture as Guardian. UFF@ULM.-The Rev Prebendary Bramley, Mr J New chairman of the  , and Mr E  their nominations as  SCHOOL. Played at Lifton, the result being a win for Lifton by six goals to three. EXE ISLAND ROVERS v NAPIER JUNIORS. Played at Exeter, the result being a win for Napier by four goals to nil. OAKS B v CRE@DITON B. The Oaks second string took a heavy team to Crediton to meet the home B team, and won by a goal, a dropped goal, and a try to nil. BLUNDELL'S v WESTWARD HO! This match was decided at Tiverton, the homesters winning by a goal and @ﬁve tries to a try. Notwithstanding the runaway char- acter of the game, it was a very good and enjoyable one. TORQUAY ATHLETIC B v. BUCKFASTLEIGH. Played at Torquay, the result being a point- less draw. Backfastleigh conceded three minors. ST. LEONARD'S v. PRACTISING SCHOOL PAST . This match was played at Magdalen-road, and ended in a win for St. Leonard's by a try to nil. BIDEFORD v. BARNSTAPLE B.@@@@@@ Barnstaple B played Bideford at the latter place, and norwithstanding the fact that they had the services of Monty@ Toller, were beaten by two tries to nil. SIDMOUTH v OTTERY. This match was played at Sidmouth, and resulted in a win for the home team by a penalty goal and four tries to a penalty goal and one try. ALBION B v. KINGSBRIDGE. This match in connection with the Devon Junior Cup took place at Devonport, the result being a win for Albion B by three tries to one. ST. DAVID'S JUNIORS v. ST. SIDWELL'S JUNIORS. These teams met at Exeter. the result being a win for the former by a goal, a dropped goal, and four tries. BOVEY v. HEAVITREE. This match was played at Heavitree in @ﬁne weather and before a fair attendance of spec- tators. Bovey were by far the @ﬁner team, but Heavitree were better at half. The @ﬁrst half was slow, but interesting. Just after the start Cooper, for the visitors, scored a try, which was not converted. After the kick out, Bovey again pressed, but it was not until near half-time that Cooper once more scored. On the kick out Heavitree rushed the oval to their opponents 25 but Bovey were relieved by a kick. Heavitree showed better play in the second half but could not score, and the game ended@-Bovey Tracey, two tries Heavitree, nil. EXETER B v HEATHCOTE. Played at Tiverton. The visitors came two short and found two good subs in Britton and Pook of the Tiverton team. Exeter played a rattling game, whilst the homesters were somewhat noisy, and inclined to be rough. Cox for the home team scored a dis- puted try in the @ﬁrst half. Exeter had hard lines in not scoring, their wheeling of the scrum being splendidly. The @ﬁnal score was Heathcote-One try Exeter B-Nil@@.@@@@ OAKS v CREDITON. The great match did not interfere with the attendance at Alphington-road, where an interesting game was witnessed between Oaks and Crediton. Sawer and Densham were not playing for the homesters, who played two second men. Soon after the start the visitors were awarded a free kick, but nothing better than a save resulted. Crediton forced play into Oaks' territory, and for a time looked dangerous, but a @ﬁne run by Peter Underhill put matters in a di@ﬀerent light. He passed all his opponents but the back, and he in endeavouring to collar him knocked the ball out of his hands. A free kick for the homesters had the e@ﬀect of livening matters up a bit, and several smart rushes were made by either side, Johns being conspicious for Kirton. A rather easy chance for the visitors obtained after a smart run, was spoiled by wild passing, and the @ﬁrst half ended with no score. Oaks commenced to press directly the second half commenced, and from Crediton's 25 @ﬂag Gard made a good, though ine@ﬀec- tual, att@@empt@ to drop a goal. A smart mark by Cornish at mid-@ﬁeld was practically use- less, and a good run under di@ﬀiculties, and in the thick of opponents, by Middlewick was equally unproductive. A pretty piece of running among the home threequarters brought the ball to the visitors' goal, and a punt over the bar resulted in a save. Gard very cleverly stopped a forward rush. A mark mid-way between the centre @ﬂag and Crediton 25, taken by Bates, was fruitless, and after a little exciting play a save in favour of Oaks resulted. Faulkner in the visiting 25 took from a scrum and passed to Goodman, who made a tricky run and scored in the corner. Bates' kick was a failure. A piece of wild passing by the home quarters made matters look a little dangerous but Gard ca@me to the rescue with a @ﬁne stop and Bates, picking up, passed to Cornish, who ran along the line and kicked to the centre under the goal, where the Crediton back took possession, and the ball was worked away from dangerous ground, and exciting play in the home@ territory resulting in nothing, the game ending-Oaks-One try Crediton-Nil. EXETER v BRIDGWATER. This match was played at the County Ground this afternoon. The weather was beautifully @ﬁne, but the attendance was fairly good. Preece kicked o@ﬀ and Culverwell well re- turned. Read sent back with advantage to the visitors 25 where the Bridgwater for- wards came away to the centre. Labbett by a @ﬁne dribble took the leather dangerously near the home line, but the visiting back stopped his career. A series of long shots took place between the two backs, the Exonia@ns gaining the advantage. Labbett came away from the 25 and wriggling through a host of opponents scored a try in a favourable position. H. Reed took th@e kick and was successful. On the kick o@ﬀ the visitors took the leather to the home quarters but Harris relieved. Culverwell was well away ut Escott tackled him before he could get anything like dangerous. The Exeter men by a drib@ble transferred operations to the visiting 25,@@ where Culverwell relieved by a kick and run. The visiting threequarters exhibited some @ﬁne passing, but Escott well collared an opponent when very dangerous. Exeter quartette showed some @ﬁne passing resulting in Baker scoring. Reed made a splendid attempt to majorise but failed. Not long after the kick o@ﬀ Labbett gave to Colson, who transferred to Reed. The latter went o@ﬀ, and handling o@ﬀ his opponents in @ﬁne style scored another try for Exeter. No goal resulted. F. Escott came away from the scrum and scored another try for Exeter. Reed kicked the goal. Nothing further was scored up to half-time. Exeter@-Two goals two tries Bridgwater-Nil Bridgwater kicked o@ﬀ, and Escott@ well returned to touch in the centre. Escott received from a scrum and gave to Baker in his own 25. The latter came up the @ﬁeld, and, leaving Culverwell behind, ran in a@nd scored between the posts. Reed kicked an easy goal. On the kick out Exeter  match was played at Weston-@ super-Mare in delightful weather and on a splendid ground. There was a very large attendance. The sides were as pub- lished. Devon started and shewed @ﬁne passing against the Somerset dribbles, but the former prevailing Stoyle scored and goaled. Even play followed exciting tactics without scoring, C Chard for Somerset and Chipman for Devon distinguish- ing themselves, Boucher being compelled to save. At half time there was no increase in the score. In the second half Somerset started with the advantage, compelling the visitors to save. Devon's splendid passing, however soon reversed minor points, and Sowden scored, but the try was not im- proved. @@Play remained in mid-@ﬁeld for a considerable time, and was of give-and- take order. Hocken made a brilliant run, nearly scoring for Devon. Mermagen Somerset ran the full length of the @ﬁeld and scored, Rogerson converting. Result-Devon, one goal one try Somerset, one goal.  greatest enthusiasm was witnessed at the meeting of Devon and Somerset in their match held at Weston-Super-Mare this after- noon. It knew no bounds. It never did between these old deadly but friendly rivals and although Devon has never previously de- feated Somerset since the advent of recognised organisation, and it was after drawing on two previous occasions at Barnstaple and Exeter respectively last year the Dumplings were eventually beaten at Weston last season the teams have since materially changed, and Devon, who had a better advantage this year over Gloucester and Cornwall than did Somerset, as regards the number of points in their victories. Thousands of spectators from all parts of the West of England-including several hundred from Exeter an@d the adjoin- ing towns-lined the ropes, and as the game progresses the merits of the respective teams, which were as follows, could be plainly seen -DEVON. SOMERSET. Back. W Hocken, Albion Boucher, Taunton Threequarters. H Stoyle, Barnstaple  Bowles improved Somerset's  took the oval into his opponents ground, but a long shot by Sowden was wel returned by Boncher. The visitors, however still attacked, bu@t even@tually Somerset assumed the o@ﬀensive. Passing between Chipman, George, Sowden neutralised matters, Soane stopping a dangerous rush. Hocken missed the oval, and Mermagen, rushing up, secured and scored, Rogerson goaling.@@ The  Hall at noon to-day to attend the wedding of Prince Adolphus of Teck and Lady Margarete Culverwell well defended. Escott received from a scrum, and Labbett romping over the line scored again for Exeter. Reed goaled, H. Escott shortly afterwards received and ran through a host of opponents winding up with a smart performance by dropping a goal while running@ Within a few minutes Reed ran in, no goal resulting. The same player again notched a point, the goal being successful. Nothing further was scored, and the game ended-@@@Exeter-Five goals, one dropped goal and three  Bristol Haft-backs. W George,  Weston Forwards. G P Allington, Albion@ Hawkings, Tqy  Barnstaple W    Aguila, Bath The referee was Mr. Holmes Midland Countses , and the touch judges Messrs Dixon Devon and Fox Somerset. The Great Western Railway made special arrangements for conveying spectators to the match. They had announced a special train to be run from Dartmouth, taking up pas- sengers on route, but it was found necessary to run it in two parts, one being started from Exeter, and only stopping at Wellington. This tran-which took 250 enthusiasts@-reached Weston at 2.15, a quarter of an hour before time. The original Dartmouth section -having 700 passengers aboard-reached Weston at 2.35 and the special taking 800 visitors from Barnstaple, Minehead, and other places along the Northern littoral steamed gaily into the station at 2.25. Altogether over 400 persons were booked from Exeter, 100 from Barnstaple, and 100 from Tiverton. The match was played in splendid weather, and before about four thousand spectators. THE GAME. May started for Devon, and Baker mu@ﬀing, the leather the visitors attacked. Devon were awarded a free kick for o@ﬀside play by C Chard but an attempt to place a goal by Stoyle failed, and the ball was saved. George turned the kick o@ﬀ, and Somerset were again placed on the defensive. Woods and Han- cock then carried the oval well into touch and Soane led a dribble to the centre, Play for a time kept in the centre, but George gained possession and passed to Chipman, who forwarded to Bildings, and Sowden getting the ball served to Salter, who ran near the home line. Hostilities were promptly taken back to neutral ground, Hancock heading a dan- gerous rush Rogerson and Westcott attacked hotly, Stoyle, however, frus- trating their e@ﬀorts. Mermagen magni- ﬁcently kicked near Devon's line, but the venue of play was soon trans- ferred to the centre. Boucher pulled Sowden over after an excellent run in front of the line Stoyle then scored, Hocken converting. Stoyle's try, it appeared, was obtained as follows George nearly ran in just previously, and play being on the line George picked up and passed to Bildings, who served to Stoyle and that player, as stated, scored, planting the oval behind the posts amid loud cheering which was renewed again when Hocken kicked a @ﬁne goal. Somerset afterwards pressed, their forwards working grandly under Soane's captaincy. May dribbled well, but Rogerson put the oval into touch in Devon's ground. Excellent passing among the Devon backs soon altered matters. Hawkings broke away, and Hancock retaliating Talter fell on the leather, play being central, George afterwards passed to Chipman, who gave to Sowden and his transfer pass to Salter was missed, b@ut the Exmouth man picked up and kicked near the line, Boucher replying. A lucky @ﬂying kick by Wescott greatly relieved Somerset. Hocken took a shot at goal, Mermagen saving twice successfully. Nothing further was scored up to half time when the record stood -Devon-One goal. Somerset-Nil. SECOND HALF. Woods started the second half, Stoyle returning well into touch. and the same Devonian made a mark o@ﬀ a free kick by Woods, but Somerset proceeded to attack Sowden relieved with a kick, but the ball returned over the line, Hocken just saving Salter and Thomas succeeded in obtaining marks, but nothing came of the kicks, the homesters con- tinuing to press strongly. After a series of scrums Chipman punted to neutral ground, and thus enabled Devon to breathe once more. Somerset, however, gained ground, Ebdon taking the leather to Devon's quarter @ﬂag, but the homesters warm- ing once more to their work repulsed the onslaught. May then dribbled over the 50 line, Somerset for the @ﬁrst time during this half being put on the defensive. Excel- lent passing between Chipman, George, Sow- den and Bildings taking place. Stoyle eventu- ally put in a magni@ﬁcent run, and then followed another bout of passing George slipped away from the scrum, passed to Chipman who forwarded to Bildings, and that player passed to Sowden, who scored a brilliant try @amid tremendous cheering on the part of the Devonian spectators. Hocken@ failed at goal. Even play followed, and .then Devon, encouraged by their success, once more attacked. Woods and Hancock drib@bled to the centre, and a free kick kick  goal and one try SOMERSET-One goal. The @ﬁrst intimation of the result of the game was publis@hed in Exeter in the window at the Evening Post, the news being received with the greatest satisfaction as it rapidly spread throughout the city, and there is no doubt that the victorious team will have an enthusiastic welcome on arriving at the Ever Faithful this evening.  The bet@ter side undoubtedly won in fact, it was only towards the latter end that Somerset got on Devon's line proper, and then it was when through a mistake of Hocken in not accepting the oval from Hancock's dribbling that Mermagen @came up and scored. It was the work of a moment. Throughout the Somerset play was some- what disappointing, whilst Devon, with their pluck and unda@unted courage, played in such a manner that clearly showed them to be superior. The visitors completely outclassed their opponents in passing, every back man justifying his place, and the forwards wheeled the scrums a@nd heeled out remarkably well. Where Somerset, bad the advantage was in the forward rushes. These they were able to accomplish a@d libitum, and with success they laid themselves open to a forward game. Hancock, Woods, and Soane were powerful, but the Devon men were equal to the task of frustrating their e@ﬀorts. To mentionedly individuaiise the Devon players would be invidious, for they were grand to a man. The Devonian spectators present displayed overwhelming enthusiasm at their countys victory, the welkin ringing again and again with the heartiest cheering when the @@ﬁna whistle had blown. NEWTON ROVERS v HEAVITREE B. A draw was the result of this match between these team@ at Newton. ST THOMAS HARLEQUINS v St THOMAS WANDERERS. This match was played at Marsh Barton and ended in a win for the @ﬁrst named team by two tries to nil. Roberts and Dodd were the scorers. ST. THOMAS JUNIORS v ST. LEONARDS @B. The St. Thomas boys won this match by a try to a cypher. MR. HOBBS'S XV v NEWTON COLLEGE 3RD. This match resulted in a win for Mr. Hobbs's XV by two goals and two tries to one try. HONITON v CRE@WKERNE. This match was played at Crewkerne, the visitors winning by a goal and two tries to nil. TAVISTOCK COLLEGE v RALEIGH. This match, contested at Tavistock, was won by the Collegians by two goals to a try. EXETER ASSOCIATION RESERVE v DAWLISH Y.MC.A Played at James' Park this afternoon before a small attendance. Exeter kicked o@ﬀ and soon pressed the goal keeper having to save within a few minutes. After even play for about ten minutes Addis secured the ball and dribbled up the @ﬁeld scoring the @ﬁrst goal with a good shot. At half time the score stood-E@xeter-Two goals Dawlis@h-Nil. In the second half the Reserves had matters all their own way, and kept the ball almost continually in the Dawlish territory. The Exonians added four more goals, and ran out easy winners, the score being-Exeter-Six goals Dawlish-Nil CUMBERLAND v. WESTMORELAND. The last matches in the North-Western competition took place at Kendal in beautiful weather. Carradic@e kicked o@ﬀ for the home team, and for some time a fast and even game was witnessed. Braithwaite got over for West- moreland, but was played back, Goodman su@ﬀered hard lines twice at a drop at goal. After some nice passing Fletcher scored near the corner @ﬂag for Cumberland, Moore failing to convert. Half time-Cumberland, one try Westmoreland, nil. Cumberland-One try Westmoreland-Nil. On the ball restarting, even play continued though the Cumberland forwards showed a slight superioriry. Davidson made a grand run for Cumberland, and directly afterwards Goodman almost dropped a goal for Westmoreland. A @ﬁerce tussle on the strangers' line ensued until Kitchen gave relief. Both ends in turn were invaded, but without either team scoring. An interesting game ended-Cumberland-One try, Westmoreland-Nil. DARTMOUTH B v. R.NE. STUDENTS B. At Dartmouth, an even game resulting in a draw. R.N.E. STUDENTS v. DARTMOUTH. These teams met at Home Park, and being evenly matched a @ﬁne game ensued. It was only towards the close of the @ﬁrst half that the Students showed any decided superiority, and then Pendleton snatched up and went over with a try. The kick failed. The second half was just as evenly contested, play being very fast and scienti@ﬁc. Nothing more was scored@, and the game ended@-R.N.E. College-One try Dartmouth-Nil TORQUAY ATHLETIC v ALBION A. At Bladderly. Albion started, and play settled for a few minutes in Torquay 25. but very soon the visitors' backs showed excellent play and for a considerable time had the best of the game, Olver and Harding frequently breaking away. Proctor, an Albion forward, had a ib broken, and just after Causey scored a try and converted it. The second half was as even as possible, until @ﬁve minutes before the call of time when after a splendid turn of passing of the threequarters, Kitto got in at the corner, the kick failed. Nothing further was registered and the score stood-Torquay Athletic-One try. Albion A-Nil. GLOUCESTER v CORNWALL. These counties met at Gloucester in @ﬁne weather, the ground being soft. Both teams had been beaten by Devon and Somerset. The home team were without Wallace, Watts, and Collins. The visitors were strong and after twenty minutes even forward play Bowley scored for the homesters. Haines succeeded in majorising. Some @ﬁne forward rushes ensued and these gave the Cornishmen a look in, and they scored a penalty goal. More even play followed, but nothing further was scored up to the interval, when the score read -Gloucestershire-One goal Cornwall-One penalty goal. Result-Gloucester, one goal and a try Cornwall, a penalty goal. In the second half Gloucestershire attacked and exacted a minor after ten minutes' pressure. The homesters had rather the best of the succeeding play which was very uninteresting. Then Taylor nearlyd scored and Lockyer, getting the ball in a line out, dropped over. Haines failed to convert. The ensuing play@ was fought out in the centre, mainly by forwards. Bad passing lost  chance, and nothing further being done the result was-@@@@@@@Gloucestershire-One goal one try Cornwall-O@ne penalty goal. PENARTH v NEWPORT. Newport beat Penarth by two tries to nil. NEATH v. PONTYPRIDD. Neath scored an easy victory over Pont y pridd by three goals and three tries to nil. BLACK@HEATH v CARDIFF. The match at Cardi@ﬀ resulted in a win for the visitors by a goal and two tries to two goals. NEWTON v. TOTNES. Played at Newton and after an uninterest- ing and ocassionally rough game, ended in a win for the home team by a try to nil. The point was made in the second half by Wells, after a tricky run. Mr. Beer, of Torquay, refereed. pEXMOUTH v ALLER VALE. This was the grandest game on the Aller Vale ground for the season. Bradford started for the home team, and by well following up prevented a return. The homesters at once commenced to press, and Exmouth was co@@@mmpelled to save. From the kick out the visitors played up smart for a time, but were driven back again. Play being at half way, Hobbs intercepted a pass, and making a grand run fell over the line, but was rolled into touch. The second half was very even, and there was no score. TAVISTOCK v. 2ND DEVON REGIMENT. Play at Tavistock. The homesters im- mediately broke away at the start, Kerswell shooting wide. Sargent shot past, and Tavistock obtained a corner, Merri@ﬁeld falling. Play was somewhat furious and Waldron was knocked out, but was applauded on re-appearing. The Devons shot wide. Hands against Tavistock were called, and De Gray and Williams had to save. Tavistock continued shooting, but very erratically, and at half time nothing was scored. From a corner Waldron scored, but the point was disallowed. From hands against Devon Doi@dge scored, and Sargent shortly after registered a goal. Resut.-Tavistock-Two goals Devo@n-Nil EXETER v BAMPTON ASSOCIATION . These teams met under Association rules at Bampton. There was a fair attendance Exeter started and quickly assumed the o@ﬀensive, but erratic shooting and excellent defence prevented the visitors scoring more than twice up to half time. Much amusement was caused by the splendid tricky play of Exeter. At half-time Exeter led by two to nil. In the second half play went all in favour of Exeter, the home team seldom crossing the half-way line. Five more goals were added, and the result was-Exeter-Seven goals. Bampton-Nil. GENERAL MATCHES. Cambridge University beat Rosslyn Park Sunderland beat Small Heath. She@ﬀield Wednesday beat Stoke. She@ﬀield United v Liverpool, a tie. Wolverhampton Wanders v Derby County, a tie. Burnley beat Preston North End. Everton beat Bolton Wanderers, Aston Villa beat Blackburn. Notts Forest beat West Bromwich Albion. Cambridge University beat Old Foresters G EO. G. BUSSEY Co, ar@@@@e leading makers of requisites for Football, Hockey, Golf, Base-ball. Gymnasia, and all Sports and Games. Illustrated catalogues may be obtained from the local dealers, or the Sports Manufactory, Peckha@m, London. Trade Mark.  Light  1,512, o@ﬀice of @ Christmas  Christmas, Good Rhein Wine and eight other  free 3d.-John GE Pianos f@rom  199, High-street, Exeter. T O Let No. 6@,  Also 1,  BEEF AND   1@2TH. MESSRS. HUSSEY AND SON W  by Auction  on  at 10 a.m. Present entries Splendid Fat Devon Oxen, Steers, and  choice Cross-bred and Longwool  Exmoors, 3 Fat Lambs. The whole of the above Stock  of the choicest quality,  the principal agriculturists in the  Queen-street, Exeter,    my self as a  Council, with the  ing out the duties which  as a representative of the  mention my past services of thirty years. First, as  of the Sanitary  of the Board of  for which I received a  240 subscriberr in recognition  services to the ratepayers and poor  as an elected member of  with the approval of s. Should you  worthy of your approval. I  honestly, faithfully, and  best of my ability. Your faithfully, JOHM CAPRON 7, Sta@ﬀord-terrace, Heavitree, Dec. 7th, 1894 CITY EDITION. Conspiracy to Murder President. NEW YORK, Saturday. A Rio despatch to the @@W that two Italians and Portuguese have arrested charged with conspiracy to murder President Moracs.  triumph in the Brigg Division caused the liveliest satisfaction in Unionist circles in Exeter and throughout the county this after- noon, the idea being generally expressed that the rejection of the Gladstonian candidate has greatly weakened the Minis- terial position. Our Newton correspondent telephones this evening that the news of the result was received with pleasant surprise at that town. It was telegraphed to all parts of the division and placards were issued in a very short time pointing the lessons to be deduced from the Unionist victories at Forfar and  J. W. Hobbs, of Liberator notoriety, it is stated says the Central News that the order sent to the convict at Wo@@rmwood Scrubbs Prison has been returned marked gone away, and no further information given the order was made upon the petition of the liquidator of J. W. Hobbs an@d Co., Limited. Chief Constable sent to Goal. At Bradford Police Court to-day James Phillip Woodman, Chief Constable of Reigate, Surrey, was charged with embezzling monies of the Bradford Corporation amounting altogether to £250 Prisoner was f@or@merly chief clerk in the Bradford Police Oﬀice, and @@for a period of three years had a the accounts. Prisoner plea@ded @@guilty, and urged that he had used  the support of relations. he was sent@enced to @ﬁve months'  of 300 sovs, the second to receive 25sovs. and the third 10 out of the race. About three miles and a half. Captain Aikin's  Ripley 1 Mr Wiager's Wild Man from Borneo Mr T J Widger 2 Mr Shedbeck's Badminton ...A Nightingall 3 Also ran -Ardcarn, Torchlight, Schooner, Ceylon, Up and Down. Betting-7 to 4 agst Badminton, 9 to 4 Ardcarn, 100 to 12 Schooner, 10 to 1 Wild Man from Borneo, Torchlight, 100 to 6 Red- hill, Ceylon o . Run at 2.35  Murder. Accused before the Magistrate. Reginald Sannderson, aged 21, of K@astcote Hampton Wick, was charged at the West London Police Court before Mr. Curtis Be@@nnett this morning with the wilful murder of Augusta Dawes, age about 29, by cutting her throat in Holland Park-road, Kensington, o@n November 25th last. A large crowd had assembled in the vicinity of the Court await- ing the accused, w@ho was brought from Kensington Police Station in the c@ustody @of Superintendent Ferrets, of the F Division, and Sergeants Thompson and Dyson. He was taken in to the room assigned for the use of the police while waiting for his case to be called. @He wore a large ulster, and his  2 Mr Hibbert's Samarcand......R Nightingall 3 Also ran-St Dunstan, Surprise. Halsbury, First King, Ribble, Gilt Edged, Silver Image. King's Birthday, Toil and Trouble, Scottish Jewel. Betting-9 to 4 agst St Dunstan, 3 to 1 Prince Frederick, 7 to 1 Toil and Trouble, 10 to 1 Samarcand, 100 to 8 bar four o . Won in a canter by three lengths ei@ght lengths between the second and third. Run at 3. 100 sovs. Two miles. Mr McCorkell's  1 Mr E Loder's Boy  2 Mr Gooch's  3 Also @ran-Great Scott II, Caromandel II, Westmenth, Zaeo, Pliny. Betting-13 to 8 @ 5 to 2 Great Scott 6 to 1 Boy Chieftain, 100 to 8 bar three o . Won by four lengths a bad third. Great Scott II fell at the second fence and breaking one of his fore legs was speedily destroyed. Run at 3.40  of 100 sovs. Two miles over eight hurdles Mr Miller's Will o' the  1 Mr @R Walter's  Davies 2 Mr Knight's  3 Also ran -@Simon Fraser, Cameronian, Wrangler, Sweetmeat, St Ignatius. Betting-9 to 2 agst Wrangler, Shota@way, Loyalty 5 to 1 Cemeronian, Will o' the Wisp, 12 to 1 St. Ignatius, 10 to 1 Simon Fraser and Sweetmeat. Won in a canter by @ﬁve lengths a neck separated the second and  the accused was un- defended. In opening the case, Mr. Sims said the prisoner was a boarder an establishment at  appeared from there between  o'clock on the evening of the murder. At ten o'clock the same evening he was seen in the Haymarket, and at  o'clock a man answering to his  seen struggling with the woman. After formal evidence prisoner was remanded in custody. The Belfast Disaster. Resumed Inquest.  Moore Place Flat Race-Bowlegs,@100 to 8 agst@@ Selling Steeplechase-St @Anthony, 5 to 2 agst Great Sandown Redhill, 100 to 6 agst Long Ditton @Hdle-Prince Frederick, 3 to 1ag Handicap Steeplechase@-Mariner. 13 to 8 agst H'cap Hurdle@-Will o' The Wisp, 5 to  agst O@ﬀicial Scratchings. Leicester engagements-All Mr John Craig's horses All engagements-Amiable Notes. Bradford the jockey spent another good night, and showed much improvement this  ACHES AND  @Julian Girard. The Girards, Theatre @ane, ites I have used your Em- brocation with surprising @eﬀ and never intend being without  THROAT FROM  a Clergyman. For many years I have @I have used your Embrocation, and found it most  and curing sore throat@ fro@m  Schoolroom last  to-day before Mr.  coroner. Head  @ﬁrst witness examined  McCartan, M.P., who  of the deceased,  @he had made  have been physically  lad O'Donnell, who  incriminating  in custody to  out  in which O'Donnell  Hobbs, next examined,  was three feet from the  gas @meter was placed,  turing o@ﬀ  McCarter at this stage  Culler., a school teacher,  McClean present in Court, and if necessary they would go into the  refute certain statements  the advance agent of the  that was giving  to being asked to send teachers to keep order, an@d also as to the of the money paid for admission to the show. The Coroner sai@d it   that these matters  into for the purpose of @ﬁnding if there had been any negligence or culpability the part of anyone. For that reason he would request both gentlemen to remain.-Andrew Kerri@gam, one of the teachers of the school in which the disaster occurred, denied that he had received any invitation from either Mr. Arthur or his agent to be present at the show. He was in his own house ad- joining the school when the panic  into the building by the back door. The place was in total Finding he was unable to light the gas witness ran to the meter an  The children were  other at the  brother carried of them into the yard.  been keys to lock up the cellar in which the meter is placed, but for over a a  had@@@ been lost. It would have been impossible to turn out the gas at the meter in the manner described by the  I@nquiry  and Published by WILLIAM HENRY  for @the proprietors, the  Company Limited , at  North-street, in 's, in the City of Exeter, 
s d@ay is published, THE QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. XLIX. CONTENTS.-I. SPANISH DRAMA.-El Teatro Espanol.-II. NORTHERN AFRICA and the NI- GER.- Travels in Northern Africa.-Rev. J. DUDLEY'S Dissertation on the  the Niger and Nile.-III. The SKETCH    GREAT BRITAIN.- the ART of WAR.-DUPIN, Voyages dans la Grande Bretagne.-V. The ETO AGES.-Origin of GOTHIC  of the Parish.-VI History of Greece.-IX. PARRY, NORTH-WEST PASSAGE, and POLAR SEA.- on Mineral Waters.-XI. LAW of DIVORCE and MARRIAGE in  Printed for JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street, London and sold by OLIVER BOYD, Edinburgh. A YOUNG LADY, O F most respectable connections, and a Native of England, wishes for a situation as GOVERNESS, either in a School, or Private Family. She will instruct her Pupils in  the common branches of Education. Letters post paid addressed K. Y. care of the Pub- lisher, will be answered in a few days. Aberdeen, July 2, 1821. PETERHEAD CIRCULATING LIBRARY. @T HE NEW PROPRIETORS of this LIBRA-@@ RY beg to intimate to the Public, that, after re- ceiving very considerable additions, it is now ready for circulation. Terms of Subscription ---For a Year, 12s.---For Half- a-year, 7s.---For a Quarter, 4s.---For a Month, 2s. It is the Proprietors' intention, as much as possible, to increase this Library, which already comprehends up- wards of 1@300 Volumes consistently with the degree of encouragement a@ﬀorded them, so as in every respect, to render it worthy of the attention of persons of taste and learning. In short, they may assure the Subscribers, that neither pains for expense shall be spared for their grati@ﬁcation@@@@@. Catalogues are now ready for distribution @@price @6d.  Librarian, St. Andrew's Street, who has always on hand Books in every department of Science and Literature. STATIONARY, in all its brariches, c. @@c. @@BOOKS bound in the neatest manner. Peterhead, July 7, 1821.@@ EXPEDITIOUS TRAVELLING TO LEITH. THE TOURIST, STEAM YACHT, S AILS regularly from ABERDEEN for LEITH, every  Morning and from LEITH for ABERDEEN, every  Morning receiv- ing and discharging Passengers oﬀ Stonehaven, Montrose, Arbroath, Crail, Anstruther, Pittenweem, Elie, and Dy- sart, all of which the TOURIST easily accomplishes in Twelve Hours.  10s.-Intermediate distances in proportion. N.B.---This Company having no@w made arrangements with the Custom-house, for allowing PARCELS and LIGHT GOODS to he shipped by their Steam Vessels all Goods and Parcels intended to be shipped by this con- veyance must be lodged at the Company's O@@ﬃce in Leith, before 12 o'clock on the day previous to the Vessel's sail- ing and at Mr D. Copland's, Aberdeen, before 2 o'- clock. Goods or Packages must not exceed from three to four barrel bulk. Time of Sailing in the Morning, and other particulars, may be learned, by applying at the Subscriber's O@@ﬃce, Marischal Street. DAVID COPLAND. Aberdeen, 9th July, 1821.  leave respectfully to inform @her Friends @and the Public, that she is now returned from LON- DON, with a choice selection of the most fashionable pat- terns in MILLINERY and DRESS-MAKING, which she hopes will meet their approbation. Upperkirkgate, July 10, 1821. TUTOR WANTED, By a Gentleman in the vicinity of Aberdeen, T O Superintend the EDUCATION of his Two @@@SONS, sixteen and eighteen years of age.-He must be a good French Scholar, and be quali@ﬁed to Teach Arithmetic and Book-keeping, and the usual branches of Education. The most respectable references will be required as to character and abilities. For Terms, and other particulars, apply to Alexander Thomson, Advocate, Aberdeen. FARM ON COUNTESSW@ELLS. There is to be Let, with entry at Martinmas @ﬁrst, @@@T HE FARM of COLT@HILL, comprehendinging part of the Mains of Cou@ntesswells, which has for several years been in the natural possession of the Pro- prietor, and put in ﬁne heart and condition for a Tenant. The contents of the Farm may be about Fifty acres but it can be extended, more or less, by the addition of some contiguous Fields, if this is deemed an object by those who wish to o@ﬀer. A substantial and commodious Dwelling Ho@use, and Farm Steading, has just been erected by the Proprietor, to which the Tenant will have immediate access, upon dead inventory, without any payment in the way of me- lioration. Farther particulars will be learned, by applying to Duncan Davidson, Advocate, with whom o@ﬀers may be lodged betwixt and the 2d day of August next. N. B. There are several FIELDS on the @Mains Farm which will be Let together or separately, as o@ﬀerers may incline. HOUSE AND GARDEN IN SCHOOL-HILL. @@@@Upset Price Reduced to £700. To be sold, by public roup, in Dempster's Hotel, Aber- deen, on Thursday the 30th of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, @T HAT Airy and Commodious@@ DWELLING@@ HOUSE, in the School-hill of Aberdeen, with the Garden and O@@ﬃces adjoining, which belonged to, and were lately occupied by, the Deceased  Esq. of Murtle having Gordon's Hospital, and the Hos- pital Garden, immediately opposite, o@n the North. The House contains Parlour, Dining Room, Drawing Room, and four Bed Rooms, all lately @ﬁtted up by Mr Gordon, at co@nderable expence besides four Co@om- ceiled Rooms, Closet, Kitchen, Drying Garret, and very ample Cellarage. Convenient O@@ﬃces are attached and part of the Gar- den admits of being Feued o@ﬀ to great advantage, with front both to the Sc@hool-hill and Belmont-street. Apply to Mr Duncan Davidson,  to his employers@@ and the Public, that he  a Gen- teel school Room in  Second Floor above that Shop lately occupied by Mr Clerihew, where, on @MONDAY, 30th July, he will Open his SUMMER CLASSES. Private Instructions in Families, and at Mr P.'s Class Room, where hours of attendance, and other particulars, may be learned@@@@. @@On Monday, @16th July, between 7 and 8 in the morn- ing, he will open a CLASS for WRITING, in Mr. PATON'S Class-Room in the Academy. Number of @Pupils in each French and Italian Class will be limited to Six. NEW CATALOGUE OF TH@E PUBLIC LIBRARY, BROAD STREET. @@T HE Proprietors of this Establishment have just @@@published a New and Extensive CATALOGUE, containing, in addition to the accumulations of former years, every Literary Work of merit, up to the Publica- tion of the Catalogue and they beg to assure their Sub- scribers and the Public, that they shall strive, by sparing neither attention, labour, nor expence, and by fresh ad- ditions to their stock of Books from time to time, to ren- der the PUBLIC LIBRARY worthy of their continued and increased support. N. B. It is requested that the Rules be strictly com- plied with, in regard to the time allowed for reading New Books, as otherwise the numerous demands cannot be supplied and as several infringements of the Rule in regard to writing upon, cutting, or otherwise destroying the Books, particularly that of @writing upon, have lately been observed, the Proprietors earnestly entreat at- tention to it. as they are resolved not to pass over, un- noticed, such mischievous and wanton amusement. A. BROWN CO.'s,  THE JUSTICES OF PEACE FOR ABERDEENSHIRE. @T HE ABSTRACT of the BRIDEWELL ACT, @@@@published by the Commissioners in @1809, being now re-printed, Copies thereof, with Forms of Warrant of Commitment, may be had, on applying at t@he O@@ﬃce of Mr Burnett, Belmont @Street. THO. BURNETT, C@LK. Aberdeen, July 10,cate. HOUSE ON DENBURN, FOR SALE. Upset P@rice  to @@£275.@ To be sold, by public roup, in Dempster's Hotel, Aber- deen, on Thursday the 30th of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, @T HAT Neat and Commodious NEW HOUSE,@@@@ on the West Bank of the Denburn, with the small Yard, or Bleaching Green in front, as presently occupied by Mr JAMES REID, Merchant. It contains Dining@ Room, Drawing Room, and four Bed Rooms, besides Kitchen, Wash-house, large Drying Garret, Cellars, and other accommodations in a situation which is airy and pleasant. Apply to Duncan Davidson,  AND DESIRABLE@@  will be sold, by public roup, within the house of John Dempster, Vintner in Aberdeen, on Friday the 7@th day of September next, at @6 o'clock afternoon, A LL and WHOLE the LANDS and ESTATE of COLLY@HILL, and MILL LANDS of the same, MULTURES, TEINDS, and others, belong- ing to the Trustees of the Deceased ALEX.  all in the parish of  lies within two miles of Oldmeldrum, and about the same distance from Inverury to both of which places there are excellent turnpike roads from Aberdeen, be- sides the Aberdeenshire Canal to Inverury. The Teinds are valued and exhausted, and the Land Tax is redeemed. The Lands hold of a subject superior, for payment of a triﬂing duty. The greater part of the price may remain in the hands of the purchaser for a considerable time, if desired. @For further particulars, apply to Alexander Smith, Advocate, Correction Wynd, Aberdeen.  ABERDEEN AND LEIT@H. THE ABERDEEN, LEITH, CLYDE SHIPPING CO.'S STEAM YACHT, V@E@LO@CI@T@Y, JAMES BELL, COMMANDER, S AILS for NEWHAVEN near LEITH, on FRI- DAY Morning, at @6 o'clock precisely, and will call o@ﬀ Stonchaven, Montrose, Arbroath, Crail, Anstruther, Elie, and Dysart. The VELOCITY will continue to sail regularly from Aberdeen every  DAY and from Newhaven,   receiving and discharging Pas- sengers at the above Ports. Aberdeen, Leith,th, Clyde Shipp. Co's. O@@ﬃce, 11th  a WASHING HOUSE at@@ BRIDEWELL. The Plans and Speci@ﬁcations will be seen in the hands of @Mr Burnett with whom Estimates must be lodged on or before the 18th instant. Aberdeen, July 10, 1821. WANTED, A FEW Good HANDS in the CABINET LINE. Apply to  Cabinet Maker and Upholsterer, Union Street. V@A@LU@A@BLE PROP@@@ERTY  GAL@LOWGAT@E, FO@R SALE. To be Sold, by Private Bargain, @T HAT excellent DWELLING HOUSE, with@@ the Two GARDENS, OFFICES, and PERTI- NENTS, on the East side of the Gallowgate of Aber- deen, formerly belonging to Mr George Cruickshank- and now occupied by Charles Bonnor, Esq. The House is very commodious, and was substantially repaired a few years ago and the Garden extends to the summit@@ of the Port-hill, from which there is one of the @ﬁnest views around Aberdeen. The@@ @Title Deeds are in t@he hands of Messrs. Stevenson and Scott, W. S. Edinburgh, to whom, or to Messrs. Lumsden, Advocates, Aberdeen, application may be made for farther particulars. FOR SALE, BY PRIVATE BARGAIN, @@@T HAT HOUSE, with the STABLES and vacant @@@GROUND, possessed by  Sta- bler, lying in the Close leading from the head of Broad @@Street to the North Street. @@The property is very centrical, and will always com- mand good Tenants. On the vacant Ground several Houses might be erected. George Gibson will shew the Property and for farther  Minister of the Gaelic Chapel there his memory will long live in the hearts of his congre- gation, to whom his fervent piety and a@ﬀectionate de- meanour amongst them rendered him most dear. At Edinburgh, on the 25th ult. Mrs.  relict of Alex. Bower, Esq. of Kincaldrum, in the 83d year of her ago. Died, at Montrose, on Sunday last, Mr  Shipmaster, and for many years Shoremas- ter at that port. Died, at School-house of Mortlach, on the 1st July, after a lingering illness,  Gardenstown, aged 32, greatly lamented by his friends and numerous acquaintances. At View@ﬁeld Cottage, near Inverness, on the 25th ult. JOHN NOBLE, Esq. of the India House, London. At Edinburgh, on the 1st curt Miss  youngest daughter of the late Rev. James Grant, mi- nister of Laggan. We are happy to observe, that the Gentlemen of this city and county, with that loyalty and public spi- rit which has ever been their characteristic, intend to celebrate the day appointed for the Coronation of @His Majesty, by a Public Dinner on the occasion. The Right Hon. Lord FORBES has been invited to take the Chair supported @by the Lord Provost of the City -and the meeting, it is expected, will comprize all the principal landholders and gentlemen of the district.-Preparations, we understand, are likewise making in all quarters of the country, for celebrating the day, by ap- propriate marks of festivity. The Treasurer of the Aberdeen Auaeiliary Bible So- ciety lately received, by the hands of Mr WM. SIMP- Son, in Corse, Forgue, the sum of £6 8s. as a remit- tance from the Bible Association in the parishes of Forgue and Drumblade.  understand that the @Rev.  London, is ex- pected to advocate the cause of this Society in this@ City, on Sabbath next and to preach, in the forenoon, in the Frederick Street Chapel in the afternoon, in the@ Burgher Chapel, Union Street and in the even- ing, in t@he George Street Chapel. When it is consider- ed that this Society is the Parent and Stem of Mis- sionary Establishments that the labours of its Mis- sionaries have been of so much importance in South Africa, in India, a@nd especially in the South Sea Islands and that it @has, during last year, expended three thou- sand six hundred pounds beyond its receipts, and come under very weighty obligations for the current year, it is to be hoped our fellow-citizens will come forward, with their wonted liberality, in support of such an important Institution. We have been requested to contradict a paragraph which appeared in our last, as to the crowded state of the Mail Coach between this place and Ban@ﬀ, and which was sent to us by a gentleman residing near Old Meldrum. We are now informed, from the best au- thority, that the Coach @has repeatedly, of late, per- formed her journey with a single passenger and this statement receives con@ﬁrmation from the circumstance that the contractors for the Day Coach, called the Earl of Fife, were under the necessity of relinquishing that concern, after a sacri@ﬁce of £600 to £@700, actual loss, within the last year. The Tourist, Steam Yacht, not having arrived at her usual time, on Monday evening, occasioned consider- able anxiety to the friends of the numerous passengers on board. By a letter from Leith, we understand, the detention was occasioned by one of the boiler plates giving way, and damping the @ﬁre-a circumstance t@he recurrence of which is now e@ﬀectually provided against. She is expected here this evening, and w@ill sail, as usual, on Thursday.- See adv. On Wednesday, t@he 28th June, the Rev. Mr Mar- shall, formerly assistant to Mr Molleson of  Newton, @@Sunderland Maxwell, Burgess, do. Crimonmogate, Anderson, do. 4. Rose, Phillips, do. Margaret, Loggan, do. Charleston, An- nand, do. Linnet, Waddel, Rye Bro@mby, Middle- ton, Hull. 5. Alpha, Anderson, Wemyss Tourist, Bein, Leith@ Sophia, Williamson, Wick@ Swift, Alex- ander, @Sunderland Friends' Increase, Hobson, do. Ve- locity, Bell, Leith. @6. Expert, Leslie, London Regent, Turner,do. Mary, Gordon, Dysart Os@sian, Bruce, Sun- derland Union, Greig, do. Marquis of Huntly, D@avid- son, Leith Clyde Packet, Weir, Glasgow Flora, Loftel, Dingwall. 7. Tourist, Bain, Leith Dee, Mof- fat, Rotterdam Friendship, Spinks London Sophia, Sinclair, Leith @Velocity, Bel@l, do. Flora, Sinclair, London. 8. Huddleston, M'Hatty, Sunderland Hen- ry and William, Allen, do. Johnston, Walker, do, Aberdeen Packet, @Kerr@, London E. C. Hamilton, Gal- loway, Sunderland Maria,@ L@argie, do. Briton, Kirk- hope, do. Jean, Bathew, London. 9. Diana, Linklat- ter, Sunderland Ann, Stephan, Peterhead Vine, White, Sunderland Dolphin, Morice, Yarmouth. 10. Theophilus, Ru@ncy, Sunderland Perth, Sellar,@@ do. Ceres, You@@ng, Inverkeithing Sir William Waec, Anderson, M@iramichi. SAILED. July 3.---Champion, Cran, London Cato, Davies, do. Allies, @@Mess, do. Industry, M'Denald, Sunder- land Velocity, Bell, Leith. 4. Waterloo, Reid, Lon- don Edward, Masson, Sunderland Alpha, Wood, Bullers of Buchan. 5. Juno, Ble@wes, Dundec Indus- trious Mary, Lyall, Sunderland Bell, Fintray, Ar- broath @Tourist, Bain, Leith Thetis, Crutchly, Lon- don. @6. Velocity, Bell, Leith Countess of Elgin, Still, Montrose Eliza, West, Newcastle Perseverance,@ Greig, Sheerness Linnet, Wadell, Sunderland Tou- rist, Bain, Leith. 7. Mans@ﬁeld, Morison, London Wellington, Gilbertson, Hull Triumph, Findlay, Lon- don @George Ann, Davidson, Sunderland Charleston,n, Annand, do. Superb, Matheson, London. 8. Flora, Loftel, B@eauty Velocity, Bell, Leith. 9. Friendship, Spinks, Wiek Newcastle, Leslie, Newcastle Lord @Huntly, Philips, Spey Marquis of Huntly, Davidson, Leith Alpha, Anderson, Kirkcaldy Eliza, Suther- land, Bullers of Buchan. Commerce, Anderson, at London, 1st inst. Superior, Duncan, at do. 4th do.@@ Eliza, West, at Newcastle, 8th instant. Asia, Morice, at New South Wales, 28th Decem- ber, 1820. The Earl of Aberdeen, Ligertwood, arrived at Mi- ramichi the 20th May, in 30 days fr@om Dublin states the following particulars of Aberdeen vessels The Pilot, Law, arrived there about the 10th May, and on t@he 1st .June @had on board a tier of timber a- bove the beams, and expected to be ready in a week afterwards. At this date, the progress of t@he undermentioned vess@s in loading was as follows Harmony, Murray, half loaded. Ceres, @Rait, a tier above the hold beams. Margaret, Aiken, nearly full below the beams. Canada, Cooper, begun to load. Louisa, Oswald, about 20 tons on board.  human su@ﬀerings, and participated little in hu@@@@man joys. This insensibility wa@s one of the causes of his wonderful suceess and it was, no doubt, one of the reasons of his rapid descent. He never had, perhaps, a real friend and or, he never felt sympathy, he never inspired it. He commanded admiration he inspired the greatest zeal in his service he controuled the mi@nds of his adherents and he exercised an empire over them, which was quite unparalleled. But @he creat- ed no attachment and the noble @ﬁdelity w@hich s@ome@ of his followers shewed to him i@n his adversity, was the homage which a mind @Eke his could exact from generous natures but it was not a@ﬀection. As to his military talents, they are so deeply engraven on the brazen tablet o@f fame, that it would show @less stupid ty, than the envy of a@ base spirit, to deny them. But it was in his capacity of Ruler, that the hardness of his character displayed itself chie@ﬂy. There his solita ry nature was most conspicuous. With a capacity for government, of t@he highest order with a command over the vast resource of the Empire which he@ had formed, greater t@han Sovereign ever possessed with an activity that never reposed yet he did little for the happiness of France and even the monuments of his reign, which were erected to his own pride, do @not at all correspond with t@he resources which he had at his disposal. The nation, instead of being @raised by him, was depressed by his genius-the lofty sentiment was crushed the pride of individuality was extinguished and the spirit, though not t@he harshness, of eastern despotism was displayed in his Government. From his elevated throne he looked down only upon crouch- @@ing slaves. He conferred upon them titles, and ho- nours, and dignities but they were badges of servi- tude they conferred no real dignity of mind they imparted no conscious pride and they served only b@y their decorations @and wealth to swell t@he pomp of his Court. The principle of his Government was selﬁsh- ness and we are compelled to say, whilst we are dis- posed to do ample justice to his extraordinary @genius, that he did not make use of it in such a manner as ought to give him a title to the gratitude of manki@nd. It is a@@ﬃrmed that Sir Hu@ are, t@hat he shall  in t@he largest ship of the  If this account be true, the report of his  is not correct, of course. Every due  to his remains and @tho' an inexorable policy co@mpelled the British Government to treat him, when alive, and in their power, with a rigour entirely foreign to its character, they will act with their customary genero- sity, now that the death of this singular man has re- leased th@em from the painful duty which circumstances imposed upon them@. The sensation produced by the death of Bonaparte will be co@nﬁned, in this country, to its e@ﬀect as a relief to our @ﬁnances, the expence of his custody at St. He- lena being little short of £400.000 per annum. In France, t@he sentiment w@ill he more deep, and perhaps @@not altogether @so  a tier above the beams. The Venus, Anderson@ Mary Ann, Moore Juno,@ Henderson Patriot, Troup and Earl of Dalhousie,@@ Livie, arrived at Quebec, the 14th May.y.  instant, the request to  heard, before the Privy Council, has been granted @by his Majesty @@and accordingly, on Thursday last, at t@en o'clock, the Privy Council assembled at Whitehall   to which he had received an unanimous call. On Wednesday of last week some inconsiderate per- sons lighted a @ﬁre near the corn yard of New@ﬁeld in Ross-shire, the property of Mr Davidson of Findhorn, with the intention of scaring crows, which were be- coming destructive among the stacks. The @ﬁre @ith part of the corn yard, and before @@it was possible to extinguish it, nearly @ﬁve large stacks of wheat were consumed, estimated at about 30 bolls each. St. Peter's market was held at Forfar on Wednes- day. It has not been so thinly attended for 4 years. Cattle were much lower in price, and t@he sale heavy. Best quality, 7s. per stone inferior, @6s. 6d. The depression was owing in a great measure to the scar- city of grass occasioned by the extreme  her materials will be saved. The Alexander, Booth@ Fair@ﬁeld, Work Monarch, Martin and Granite, Scorgie, arrived at St. John@'s, N. B. 10th May, from Aberdeen. The Pallas, Moi@r, arrived at Lochalsh t@he 26th ult. to take out emigrants for Cape Breton. The Fairly, from Liverpool to Stornoway, founder- ed o@ﬀ the isle of Skye. Th@e Sir William Wallace, Anderson, arrived from Miramichi on the 9th inst. after a passage of. 5 weeks, and reports the Aimwell, Morrison Ceres, @Raitt @Pilot, Law and Suspence, - nearly loaded.  that has been held for many years, comprising the Dukes of York and Clarence, the Cabinet Ministers, and about thirty o@ther Peers, besides the Judges. After reading her Majesty's Memorial to the King, of which a copy is subjoined, Mr. Brougham addressed the Council in support of Her Majesty's right, which @he chie@ﬂy rest- ed on the fact that no married King of this country had ever been crowned without his consort partakin@g of the solemnity. Where this had not taken  William Smith, Advocate,  QUARTERS. @Wanted, for two or three Young  PRIVILEGE of SHOOTING MUIR@@@ GA@ME, for the @ﬁrst 10 or 14 days of the ensuing Season, on Grounds in the Counties of Aberdeen or Ban@ﬀ. Any Gentleman who can give the accommodationa the followinge ARE WANTED, @T O CUT about 2000 Ells of Large Open  some Covered DRAINS and also to Pare and Bu@rn from Two to T@hree Acres of Moss Ground, on the Farm of NETHERTON, parish of Cairn@ey. Intending Contractors for executing the work, are re- quested to attend there on Friday, the 20th current, when an agreement will be made with those whose Estimates are then accepted of. For further information, inquire at Messrs. George Hern, at Netherton or Thomas Shier, in @Huntly. Not to be repeated. ROUP OF SAW-MILL MACHINERY TOOLS, @c. To  BOUT 30 ACRES of IMPROVE@ABLE@@ GROUND, in the HILL of MURTLE. There is an excellent Dwelling House and O@@ﬃces, newly erect- ed, and a good Road leading from the Turnpike. The Proprietor will trench and inclose the whole of the ground---the Tenants paying interest for the expense t@hereof. Every encouragement will be given to indus- trious Tenauts with some capital and none but such need apply. @Forbes Craighead, Grieve at Murtle, will point out the Ground and o@ﬀers are to be given in to the Pro- prietor, at Murtle, betwixt this and the 8th day of Aug. on which day the Ground will be Let. TO CARTERS. Wanted, CONTRACTORS for REMOVING the STONES from about eleven Acres of TRENCHED GROUND on the Hil@l of MURT@LE, to the extremity of the Fields where t@he D kes are to be built. Forbes Craighead, Grieve at Murtle, will point out the boundary lines to which the Stones are to be removed @@and persons willing to contract for the whole, or any part of the Work, may attend at Murtle, at 12 o'clock neon on the 20th instant. July 11,  total, for the town and parish, of 30,575. The re- turn in 1811 was 29,716. The number of inhabited houses, is said to be 2651 of families, 7704 of houses building, 17 of houses uninhabited, 105 of families chie@ﬂy employed in agriculture, 307 of families chie@ﬂy employed in trade, manufactures, and handicrafts, 422@3 of all other families, @3174. The population of the town and parish of Inverness has just been ascertained, and amounts to 12,194.-In 1811 it was 11,600,-giving an increase of only 594. In 1811 a woollen and a thread manufactory were  neighbourhood of Aberdeen. S EVERAL FIELDS, on the LANDS of FOUN- TAIN@HALL, are intended to be FEUED for@@ Building and will be given o@ﬀ in such quantity as can be agreed on. In all the @ﬁelds there is an inexhaustible supply of ex- cellent Spring Water, a few feet under the surface t@he ground lies on a good exposure to the South, and shelter- ed from t@he North. It is within twenty minutes walk of the centre of the town, and yet has all the retirement of the Country. Apply to Alexander Copland, Advocate, Queen Street. LIGHT POST COACH.  on Monday next, the @16th July curt., A Quantity of SAWS, WHEELS, PULLEYS, and other MACHINERY and TOOLS, of va- rious sorts, lately used in and about the Saw-Mill at Monymusk. Many of the Articles are of excellent quality, and well worth the attention of Carpenter@, Wood Sawyers, and others in want of such. T@he Roup to commence exactly at 12 o'clock mid-day. Credit, on security. A. COOPER, Auctioneer. Monymusk, 9th July, @@1821. BEAUTIFUL VILLA, AND GRO@ M R. INNES having lately died, leaving various matters unsettled, all those to whom he was any- ways indebted at the time of his death, are@ particularly requested to meet within t@he o@@ﬃce of John@ Forsyth, Writer in Forres, on Wednesday the @18th July curt. at 12 o'clock noon, in order to determine on some general measure respecting the disposal and management of his Estate. Such as cannot attend personally are earnestly@ solicited to authorise some person to act for them. Forres, July 9, 1821. Not to be repeated.  COTTAGE, called@@ FONT-HILL, near the mouth of the @@Dee-pre- se@ntly possessed by Major FISHER with a complete Garden and Hot-h@ouse, stocked with every thing useful for a Family and w@alled round in the most substantial manner. T@he Cottage contains Dining and Drawing Rooms, with Sleeping Apartments, @c. suitable for the accom- m@odation of a family beside@ W@as@h-house, Stable, @@c. with an abundant supply of @ﬁne Spring Water at the door. It combines the advantages both of a Town and Country Residence, being not more than @ﬁfteen minutes walk from the Market Cross and having excellent air, @and a most delightl view of the Town and Bay of Aber- deen, and of the surrounding country, for a great many @ides the Cottage and Garden, there are about Two  The whole will be sold by private bargain a@nd may be viewed o@n Monday's or Saturday's, from 12 to 2 o'clock.k. Particulars may he learnt, by applying to George Wilson, Advocate in Aberdeen or Dr Dyee, the Pro- prietor. COMPACT AND DESIRABLE FARM, Within@ four miles of Aberdeen. The FARM of CUTTLEHILL, in t@he Parish of N@ewhills, on the Old Skene Road, immediately adjoin- ing to White@myres-consisting of upwards o@f 90 Acres 74 of which are Arable, and in a high state of cultiva tion, and sub-divided by substantial Stone Dykes, into 20 Parks of various sizes which have for some years been in Grass, and may now be broke up with conside- rable advantage to an incoming tenant. The whole will be let to a substantial tenant on advantageous terms. If these Lands are not let in one Farm, within three months, they will be divided into such Lots as tenants may incline, and on such length of Lease as may b@e agreed on.ed @os above, to Mr Wilson@ or Dr Dyce, the Pr will be sold, by public roup, within the Lemon Tree Tavern, Aberdeen, upon Friday the 27th July curt. at 6 o'clock in the evening, @@T HAT DWELLING HOUSE and SHOP, with @@the Pertinents, situated o@n the East Side of the Correction Wynd of Aberdeen, formerly belonging to the deceased  and now to her Trus- tees, and presently possessed by T@ho@@mas Co@ck, who will shew the premises. The title deeds and articles of roup are in the hands of John@ Smith, Advocate, Gallowgate, to whom for further information, application may be  which are now given up. The operations of the Canal were also car- rying on in the immediate neighbourhood of the town, which are now completed. These works caused a great population in 1811, and are some of the reasons why the increase is so small.  sive of the country part of t@he parishes, 8714., The Annual General Meeting of t@he Forbes Lodge of True Caledonians was held in t@he Town Hall of Old Meldrum, on Monday the 25th ult. After exa- mining t@he Funds of the Lodge, which were found to have accumulated in a most satisfactory manner, it  as far back as the coronation of Richard  of George the First. He concluded a very elaborate speech at 2 o'clock, when the Council adjourned till Friday, on which day he resumed his argument, and was followed by Mr. Den- man, after which t@he Privy Council again adjourned till Saturday, when they heard the Attorney and Soli- citor General in reply. Mr Brougham @afterwards  4.-Mary, Henry, London Catherine, Murray, Newcastle Charles, Reid, Sunderland. @6. Dart, Hall,  to deliberate and giv@@@e judgment. The question of the Queen's right to par@@@@@@@- take in the solemnity of Coronation, w@as denied by @ED. July 3.-Fortitude, Hilson,  St. David's Nimrod, Anderson,  dale Expert, Stephen, Fraserburgh Ann, Stephen, Aberdeen Dart, Hall, Spey. @SOUND LIST. June 20......Bruce, Greig, @Havannah, Petersburgh, @@sugar. 22......Union, Ord, Cromarty, do. ballast. 23......Laurel, Reid, Petersburg@h, Jersey, cor- dage. .....Ocean, Brown, Met@hel, London, timber. The Nicholas, of Aberdeen, Capt. James. Pithoy, from @Havannah, bound to St. Petersburg@h, is arrived, and performs four days quarantine. Bel@four, Ellah, Rain@als,  HE Inhabitants of O@LD  and Neighbourhood, have long complained, that when they had occasion to be in Aberdeen, to settle Bank or other business, they could not get in by the Mail Coach sooner than two o'clock, which is after the hour of business, and were therefore put to the expence of being two nights in Aberdeen. GRAY  Proprietors of the Aberdeen and Peterhead Telegraph, therefore, beg to inform them, and the Public in general, that they are to Start a LIGHT POST COACH, on THURSDAY  19th i@nst. to leave Mintlaw every law- ful morning, at a quarter past @ﬁve o'clock, and meet t@he Telegraph Coach at Birness Toll Bar, on the road lead- ing from Peterhead to Aberdeen when Passengers, who have come with said @Mintlaw Light Post Coac@h, will @be conveyed to Aberdeen by the Telegraph and the Mint-  which was paid last year and the election of O@@ﬃce-bearers took place as follows, viz. THOMAS SIMPSON,  Vice-President. John Gray, Dean James Cruickshank, treasurer, pro tempore@@ James Milne, secretary Erskine Maitland, champion Alexander Bruce, James Mor- gan, stewards James Milne, Bethelnie, John Cowie- son, Peter Davidson, Alexander Hendry, Benjamin Troup, Joseph Chrystie, Alexander Manson, Alex. Rannie, pro tempore, counsellors John Barber, clerk John Davidson, o@@ﬃcer. After the procession, there was a dinner and ball and the company spent the evening in their usual good humour. DEATH OF BONAPARTE. Dispatches have been received from St. Helena, which contain t@he important intelligence of the decease of Bonaparte. @He expired on Saturday, the 5th of May, about six o'clock in the evening, of a lingering illness, which had con@ﬁned him to @hi@s bed for upwards of forty days.  will reach Mintlaw at seven same evening by which means,@ people having Bank and other business to settle in Aber- deen, will have four hours in the forenoon to do it, and be at their own homes same day. Inside Passage from Mintlaw to Aberdeen, ......7s. Outside,  Passengers will receive Tickets for Mintlaw, upon calling at WM. GRAY'S, Frederick Street. N.B. The Telegraph starts from @WM.  Fre- derick Street, every afternoon, exactly at a quarter before three@ and from J@ Peterhead, at half-past @ﬁve every morning. TURBOTOT W ILL be sold at a Cellar in the Sugar-house@@@@ Close, between 10 and 2 o'clock This @@Day and every day there are any caught. Fish of 7½ lb. and  @6d. each. All above that weight, 4d.  lb. Quay, July 11,   Deesi@de Turnpike at the Church of Upper Banchory. A Plan and Speci@ﬁcation will be seen at Raemoir, where o@ﬀers will be received. FARM TO BE LET. To be Let, by public roup, at Bervie, on Monday the 27th of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, @T HE Farm of LARGIE, in the parish of Kinne@@@ﬀ, consisting of about 1@@16 acres Arable Land and Yards 1@2 acres Pasture and about @30 acre@s of @Mu Ground. This Farm is inclosed and subdivided with @stone dykes and lies on the side @of the turnpike road be- twee@n Bervie and Stonehaven, being 3 miles from the former, and 7 miles from the latter place. The greate part of the Farm it presently in Grass. Further particulars will be given by Mr Brand, Writer Stonehaven or David @Louson, Town-clerk, Arbroath. Arbroath, 7th July, 1821. N@O@T@ of JAMES ROBERTSON@@@ Bogforth, parish of Cairney, are requested to meet within the Gordon Arms Inn, @Huntly, on Tuesday the 17th current, at 12 o'clock noon, to see a Statement of his A@ﬀairs, and to conce@rt what may be the most proper mea- sures to adopt for the interest of all concerned. Those who cannot attend, will either give in a state of their Claims, on the day of the meeting, or transmit them, pre- vious thereto, to the said James@ Robertson. Bog@@forth. 5th  OF ABERDEEN. I T is proposed to Celebrate the@ CORONATION, by @@a Public Dinner, on @h of July current, under the direction of The Right Hon. LORD FORBES, And the LORD PROVOST of the City of Aberdeen. LORD FORRES in the Chair. On this occasion, it is hoped that as many Gentlemen of the Town and County as conveniently can, will be present. Those who mean to attend, will please leave their names @with the Keeper of the Court House, or at the Athen- aeum, on or before Monday the 16th, at 2 o'clock, when  General Meeting will take place, in the Saloon of the Court House, to nominate Stewards for conducting the necessary arrangements. Dinner, at 5 o'clock, on the terms of an Ordinary, at suck Place as will be afterwards noti@ﬁed. Aberdeen, 10th July,  WEDNESDAY, July 11. Died, at Forfar, on the 25th ult.  our. CHARLES JAMIESON, WATCH MAKER, AND DEALER IN O@PTICAL AND MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, CASTLE STREET, ABERDEEN, B EGS leave most respectfully to announce to the Nobility, Gentry, and Public of Aberdeen, his re- turn to his Native City, and that he has Opened that Shop, in the Corner of the Town House, opposite the Plain Stones, where he intends carrying on the above  had many years experience in the @ﬁrst Houses in London, he @ﬂatters himself that he will@ be able to serve those who may please to employ him, to their entire satis- faction and trusts, that his attention and assiduity in business, will ensure a share of the public patronage.-@Likewise, has to intimate, that he CLEANS and RE- PAIRS FRENCH MUSICAL CLOCKS, WATCHES, and SNUFF BOXES. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS Furnished on the shortest notice, and warranted. C. J. with due deference, mentions, that the Stock of Goods @he has now on hand, are well worthy the inspec- tion of the public. Orders from the Country will be punctually at- tended to. @DEALERS supplied on the most liberal  suspected lie was dying of the same dis- ease which had killed his father, namely, a cancer in the stomach. O@n opening the body, this was found to @be correct, as a cancer had actually taken place.@-He was sensible till the last day, and died without pain. During the @ﬁrst four weeks of his illness, it did not assume any dangerous appearance, though he appear- ed himself to be conscious that it would terminate fa- tally. During the last@ fortnight it was evident to all the medical attendants that he could not recover. It is said @he gave directions about his a@ﬀairs and papers till @ﬁve or six hours before @he died, having retained his senses till that period. He said he had wished to be opened, in order that his so@n might be informed of the nature of @his disease. The body was opened by his own surgeon. @He has left a w ill, which, with his other papers, have been, or will be, transmitted to this country. @He was born in August, 1769. The dispatches were brought by Captain Crokat of the 20th regiment. They were immediately commu- nicated to all the Ministers, and to t@he Ambassadors, by whom couriers are understood to have been dis- patched to their di@ﬀerent Courts. It has been supposed that the Heron, which brought the dispatches, also brought the body of Bonaparte to England but this, we understand, is not the case. He himself requested, when convinced that his  Memorial of her Majesty the Queen sheweth, that your Majesty has, by your Royal @@ bearing date at Carlton-house, the 9th day of June inst.@ declared your royal @will and pleasure to celebrate the So- lemnity of your @Royal Cooration upon Thursday t@he 19th day of July next, at your Palace at Westminster, but that directions have not been given for the Coronation of t@he Queen, as hath heretofore been accustomed on the like occasions. That divers of your Majesty's subjects, by ancient customs and usages of these realms, as also in regard of divers tenures, of sundry manors, lands, a@nd other hore- ditaments, do claim, and are bound to do and perform divers services on t@he day and at the time @of the Corona- tion of the Queens Consort of these realms, as in times @precedent their ancestors and those from whom they claim have done and performed at the Coronation of the Queens Consort in times past. That the Queen most dutifully claims, as of right, to celebrate the ceremony of her Royal Coronation, and to preserve, as well her Majesty's said right, as the a- foresaid lawful rights and inheritances of others your Ma- jesty's subjects. The Queen respectfully prays that your Majesty will be graciously pleased forthwith to issue your Royal Pro- clamation, thereby to appoint  @19th July next, at Westminster aforesaid, to celebrate the ceremony of her Coronation as the Queen Consort of your Majesty, and to direct that all such as by the said customs and usages and tenures are bound to do and perform t@he services a- foresaid, do duly give their attendances accordingly, at the said day and time of the Coronation aforesaid, in all respects furnished as to so great a @solemnity appertain- eth, and answerable to the dignities and places which eve- ry one of them holdeth and enjoyeth a@nd further, that your Majesty will be graciously@ pleased to issue your Royal Commission under your Great Seal, appointing your Commissioners to receive, hear, and determine, the petitions and claims which shall be made to them in this behalf. And the QUEEN, c. Paris journals to the 1st inst. have been received. The Legislative Chambers are still sitting. The com- mittee of the lower house, on the proposal for continu- ing the censorship on the French press, @has recom- mended that this restriction on liberty be no longer continued. It ma@intains that there are laws su@@ﬃcient to repress the licentiousness of the press, without this previous vassalage, or that such might be enacted. T@he news from Turkey continues of the usual vague and uncertain description, as there are no gazettes printed in that quarter. T@he Austrian Observer, printed at Vienna, on t@he @16th ult. says, that accord- ing,@to accounts from Bucharest of the 3d, the head- quarters of the Turkish army, which had entered Wal- lachia under the orders of Hadschi Ame@d Pacha @was at Colentino. These troops were waiting until joined  TIMBER FOR SALE.@@ To be sold, by public roup, on Saturday t@he 21st inst. near Messrs.  Co.'s Ropework on the Links of Aberdeen, @@T @@HE ENTIRE CARGO of the Brig Sir  being the @ﬁrst imported this season consisting of @8,000 fect @of YELLOW PINE 5,000 feet of RED PINE and 1,000 feet of BIRCH. The Cargo was all lately cut@,@@ a@nd well selected, espe- cially the Yellow Pine, which is particularly calculated for Clefting. Those in want of such, will ﬁnd it their interest to attend, as the whole is intended to he sold o@ﬀ. Credit will he gi@v and pointed out the spot in which he wished his remains to be placed. His fune- ral, it was expected, would take place on the @19th May, the day after the sailing of the Heron. Sir Hudson Lowe states, that he shall cause the body to be interred with the honours due to a General O@ﬃ- cer of the highest rank. The@ illness of the ex-Emperor lasted in the whole six weeks, and its e@ﬀects, on his frame, as described by an o@@ﬃcer who had frequent opportunities of seeing him during that period, were so powerful as nearly to reduce him to a skeleton, and to obliterate all traces of his former features. He su@ﬀered very severely at intervals, but was throughout tranquil and composed, and resigned to his fate. Though Bonaparte is supposed to have su@ﬀered much, his dissolution was so calm and serene, that not a sigh escaped him, or any intimation to the by- standers that it was so near. Bonaparte was always t@he inveterate enemy of this country but he paid tho f@ull forfeit and if he did us much injury by his hostility, it was also the means of calling fort@h so many energies, and producing such a display of patriotism on the part of the country, that it may be fairly doubted, whether @he served or injured us most by his enmity. But he is dead and the hatred which he excited when alive is buried in the grave which encloses his remains. The towering height to which he ascended the self-possession which @he dis- played during his meteor-like ascent the humble level from which he darted and the perfect case which he displayed, when he alighted on@@ that giddy @summit, evidently proved that his g@enius was of the eagle kind. But if he had powers man mortal, he itie@s of hu@man  his force@ a- mounted to upwards of 10,000 men. @T@he intelligence from Spain, both in the public pa- pers and the private letters, continues to represent that @country as ill an extremely disturbed state. A private letter from Madrid of the 15th ult. states, that the re- volution@ary club at the Fontana ď Ovo, in that city, continued its sittings, and the citizens repaired to it well armed. It is mentioned, that th@e question deb@at- ed at the club on the preceding day, related to t@he@ in-@ v@@iolability of the King's person and those speake@@rs, were loudly applauded, who maintained that t@he in- violability ceased from the moment that there were any infractions of the laws, or of an oath. Three Lisbon@ mails have been received, bringing the following intelligence. The King of Portugal has been delayed in the Brazils longer than was at @ﬁrst anticipated but he has sent a dispatch to the Portu- guese Cortes, not only assuring them that be will speedily return to his ancient kingdom, a@nd in their presence swear to the Constitution which they alone have a right to adopt, but protesting, in the most em- phatic terms, against any insinuation that he does not act thus entirely of his own froe will  also strongly reprobates the interference of foreign powers in the a@ﬀairs of his dominions. Mr Scarlett has relinquished his poor law bill for the present session. Th@e Lord Chancellor has been created Viscount Encomb Earl of Eldon. Sir Will@iam Scott has been created Ba@ron Stowel, of he purchased from the executors 
 the county of Kildare,1 on the 4th inst. Dean Burgh was in the sixty-@ﬁrst year of his age, and was for many years one of the most gifted and popular preachers of his day.  was recently an-nounced that her Majesty had graciously signi@ﬁed an intention to present a set of colours to the Highlanders who acted as the royal guard during the sojourn of the Queen and Prince Albert at Blair Castle last year. The ceremony of presentation accordingly took place on the 3rd inst. at Blair, Lord Glenlyon acting as her Majesty's representative on the occasion. Prince George of Cam-bridge and the Prince of Saxe Weimar were also present. @His Excellency the Chevalier Bunsen, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Prussia, and his Excel-lency Count Reventlow, the Danish Ambassador, arrived in this country last Monday, from Hamburg.  eminent City banker has died, leaving funded and personal property, independent of his real estates, to the amount of nearly 160,000l. By his will, which he had made some years before his death, he has bequeathed to each of his six children a legacy of 15,000l. and a le-gacy to his sister, Mrs. Oxley, and his nephew, Henry Oxley. His library, with all the books and contents, he has left to his eldest son, John Masterman, Esq., the member for the City, to whom he has devised his estate at Leyton, where he resided, as well as all other his real estates, freehold or copyhold. The residue of his per-sonal estate he leaves to his two sons, John and Thomas, whom he has appointed executors of the will.  have been received from Bombay announcing the intention of the o@@ﬃcers of the 14th Light Dragoons to erect a monument to the memory of Colonel Townsend, their late com-manding o@@ﬃcer, in testimony of the respect and regard in which he was held by all ranks in the regiment. @No reconciliation has taken place between General Narvaez, the Captain-General of Spain, and his young wife, Mlle. de Tascher. After passing the bathing season at Bagnères de Luc@hon the lady will return to Paris.-French paper.  is her Majesty's intention to abolish the o@@ﬃce of State Housekeeper at Windsor Castle by granting compensation to the lady who at present holds the o@@ﬃce, and thereby getting rid of the unpopular tax upon the public in the shape of housekeeper's fees for showing the state apartments at Windsor, which will in future be placed under the custody of the Lord Cham-berlain. HER MAJESTY'S RETURN FROM GERMANY AND VISIT TO THE KING OF THE FRENCH. On Wednesday, the 3rd inst., at eight o'clock in the morning, the Queen and Prince Albert started from Gotha upon their homeward route, by way of Fulda and Frank-fort. The Duke and Duchess accompanied her Majesty and the Prince for a short way out of Gotha towards the frontier of Weimar, on approaching which they took leave of their Royal visitors, and returned to Frederickstahl. The country after leaving Gotha is no way remarkable, the road bordered by tall poplars, running straight as an@@ arrow through a @ﬂat fertile country. As Eisenach is ap-proached the scenery improves. High green banks, here smooth and sloping, there broken and precipitous, rise on either side of the road which occupies the rich valley be-tween. Un@ﬁnished portions of a railway in progress stretch alongside it. Eisenach is rather a large place, possessing the usual characteristics of German country towns, in its white houses, narrow streets, clumps of trees growing out of the rough paving, and here and there old fountains and elaborately constructed pumps. Here her Majesty breakfasted at the Government house, which stands in the market-place. She was received by the Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar. A guard of honour was in attendance, and the towns-people turned out as well as the soldiers. On a height above Eisenach stands the Castle of Wartsburg, celebrated as the prison of Martin Luther, and where he executed his German translation of the Bible. Her Majesty, accompanied by the Grand Duke of Saxe Weimar, did not fail to visit it. The re-mainder of the route lay through a very romantic country to Fulda, where her Majesty and suite arrived at eight o'clock in the evening. The cortège stopped at the prin-cipal hotel, the Kurfurst, within which the Grand Duke of Hesse Cassel was waiting in readiness to receive the Royal travellers. A regiment of Hessian soldiers were drawn up opposite the hotel, and a dense crowd of the good people of Fulda supported them. The Queen alighted amid general cheering. The Hessian band con-tinued to serenade her for about an hour, and the hotel and the neighbouring houses were pleasingly illuminated in honour of Die Königen von England. On Thursday, the 4th inst., her Majesty continued her journey through Gelnhausen, where stand the ruins of the palace of the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, and Hanau, a tolerably large place containing about 14,000 inhabitants, and the scene of more than one warlike exploit. It was gallantly defended for nine months during the thirty years' war, and in later days Napoleon, while in hot retreat from Leipsic, dashed through the allied troops of the Austrians and Bavarians under its walls. The Queen reached @@Frankfort at three o'clock in the afternoon, and descended at the Hotel d'Angleterre, where a body of the City guard was drawn up to receive her Majesty. In the evening,@@ after dinner, there was a reception or levee, at which the Earl and Countess of Westmoreland, the Burgomaster, and some others of the authorities of Frankfort were pre-sented. Prince Metternich and the King of Bavaria dined with the Royal party.  ' Fairy,' which brought them rapidly down the river towards Cologne. They landed at Deutz, opposite Cologne, at half-past @ﬁve o'clock, and proceeded at once to the Hotel de Bellevue, where they slept. The day was remarkably @ﬁne, so that her Majesty had the best opportunity of seeing the scenery of the Rhine. Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence was waiting on board the ' Fairy,' and accompanied her Majesty. The Royal party left Cologne on Saturday morning by a special train, at a few minutes after nine o'clock, and arrived at Antwerp a little before six, where the King and Queen of the Belgians were in waiting to receive her Majesty. In the evening a grand banquet took place in the palace. Her Majesty had originally intended to dine on board the yacht, and drop down the Scheldt that even-ing, and a special messenger had been despatched from Cologne the previous evening to make the necessary arrangements. King Leopold, however, countermanded the order, taking upon himself the responsibility of assur-ing the o@@ﬃcers on board that he would prevail on the Queen to dine at the palace. At half-past seven the town was brilliantly illuminated. Along the streets tall posts were placed at intervals, surmounted by rows of lamps in the form of a pyramid the fronts of most of the houses, and all the public buildings, were also lighted up with row@ of coloured lamps. The facade of the Governor's house was one blaze of light, showing o@ﬀ very artisti-cally the fresco decorations of the arms of England and Belgium, surrounded by wreaths of @ﬂowers and gilded scrolls, which were emblazoned on the spaces between the windows. The Hotel de Ville had the whole of its vast range of windows lighted up, @ﬁve tiers of lamps run-ning from the basement story to the roof, and pouring a @ﬂood of light upon the admiring crowds in the Grand place below. The principal gate, leading to the quay, was another object of attraction it was surmounted by a pile of @ﬂags of all nations, the arms of England and Bel-gium being conspicuously displayed in the centre, stars and scrolls of gas, with the ciphers of the English and Belgian Sovereigns, were exhibited on the river front, the whole surrounded by coloured lamps, and wreaths of laurel and evergreen. The quays, however, presented the most striking and beautiful e@ﬀect. Along either bank cones of @ﬁre elevated on poles extended the whole length of the city, and in the intervals lighted torches and tar barrels cast a wild and lurid light upon the crowds who poured along the quays. The Tete de Flandres, on the opposite side of the river, was also one blaze of light, rows of lamps displaying the various lines of its batteries and entrenchments, the whole of the left bank bristled with tar and pitch barrels, around which the dark @ﬁgures of the men employed to feed the @ﬂame @were seen hovering at intervals, their @ﬁgures casting gigantic shadows across the stream. The English Government steamers, and the other vessels in the river, were also hung with lamps. The General Steam Navigation Company's steam ship ' Soho,' which was moored in the centre of the stream, opposite the Royal yacht, being conspicuous for the variety and brilliancy of its illuminations. At intervals during the night blue and red signal lights were burned, lighting up the river, the quays, and snipping with a strange and dazzling glare. Again, sheaves of rockets went roaring into the air, scattering their brilliant stars over the Scheldt, and on the deep and rapid stream below thousands of boats, from the light ski@ﬀ to the heavy lum-bering coal barge freighted with the worthy citizens of Antwerp, and carrying torches of pine in the bow and stern, @ﬂoated lo and fro, chanting their national airs in full, deep chorus, and with these were mingled the oaths, imprecations, confusion, and uproar that followed the fre-quent collisions of the river craft, the strains of military music from the banks, the hum and Babel of the many thousands who promenaded along the quays, and above all, the solemn peals of the Cathedral bells, and the roar of artillery from the citadel. At nine o'clock the Queen and her suite left the palace and proceeded through the Place de Meer, the Marché aux Souliers, by the Hotel de Ville and the Canal au Beurre to the quays, alongside which the Royal yacht was moored. The progress of the Royal party was extremely slow, in consequence of the crowded state of the streets, but it a@ﬀorded the Queen and the Prince an opportunity of viewing the illumina-tions and the other demonstrations of respect which were exhibited along their route. On approaching the Cathedral a signal was given, and instantly the whole of the magni@-ﬁcent tower was illuminated with Bengal lights. The e@ﬀect was extremely @ﬁne, every taper shaft, and pillar, carved ornament, and delicate tracery of this most beau-tiful specimen of Gothic architecture being distinctly re-vealed, and standing out like pure white marble on the dark sky. A loud burst of applause followed this magni@-ﬁcent spectacle. A few minutes, and the brilliant pa-geant was gone, and the Queen was on board the Royal yacht, which remained alongside the quay during the night. A guard of Belgian soldiers was stationed there to prevent the intrusion of the crowd, and up to a late hour the river continued crowded with boats, torches @ﬂared wildly over the heads of the revellers, or were struck upon the gunwale in tune to the music, and showered streams of @ﬁre into the hissing @ﬂood, the lights and @ﬁgures re@ﬂected and multiplied on the surface of the black and boiling current. At seven o'clock on Sunday morning the yacht got under weigh, a Royal salute was @ﬁred from the citadel, the vessels on the river were dressed out with @ﬂags, and accompanied by the ' Black Eagle,' ' Lightning,' and ' Porcupine@' Government steamers, the ' Victoria and Albert' proceeded rapidly down the Scheldt. The squad-ron reached Flushing at one o'clock, and then hove to. The Earl of Aberdeen and two others of her Majesty's suite went ashore, and made an excursion to Middleburgh, and at half-past four the squadron again got under weigh, and proceeded down the Channel with a fair wind. On Sunday, the 7th inst., her Majesty left the Scheldt,  the Royal party started by special train for Wiesbaden, and thence  in carriages, where they embarked on board a  an intimation having been previously sent to the Kin King of the French that her Majesty would accept the pressing invitation of Louis Philippe to visit him en passant at the Chateau of Eu. At eight o'clock the King and Queen of the French, the Princess Adelaide, and all the members of the Royal family, arrived at Tr@éport in the grand c@har-a-banc, fol-lowed by eight or ten other carriages. The King looked better than he has done for six months. Half an hour afterwards the British steamer, with the Royal standard of England displayed, was within a mile of the shore. King Louis Philippe immediately entered a barge, with a few attendants, and proceeded to the ' Courrier' steamer, in which he approached the ' Victoria and Albert.' From the ' Courrier' his Majesty descended into a boat fully manned, and pulled to the ' Victoria and Albert.' Some little bustle took place, and then the Royal party de-scended into the barge, in which they were rowed towards the shore. In consequence, however, of its being nearly low water the barge could not land, and as the strand was distant from the road, a curious but simple expedient to obviate the di@@ﬃculty suggested itself to the King. His Majesty ordered the horse to be attached to one of the numerous large bathing machines on the strand, and by aid of it the Queen was enabled to reach the shore, a mode of travelling which very much amused the illustri-ous visitor. Planks having been laid down on the beach for the use of the Royal party, the Queen advanced to meet Queen Victoria, whom she greeted most cordially, and embraced several times. Her Majesty also kissed Prince Albert on both cheeks. The Queen of the French then presented the Princess of Salerno and the Sicilian Princesses to her Majesty, after which the whole party got into char-a-bancs, the Queen sitting next to Louis Philippe, and Prince Albert next to the Queen of the French, and proceeded to the Chateau d'Eu, amidst the cordial applause of the assembled crowds. On the arrival of the Royal party at the chateau, a splendid dejeuner was served up, which was attended by all the visitors at the chateau. After the dejeuner Louis Philippe took the opportunity of introducing the Queen to the new Vic-toria Gallery-a splendid gallery, intended to commemo-rate her Majesty's @ﬁrst visit to the Chateau d'Eu, and which is decorated with views of the principal scenes of that occasion, painted by some of the @ﬁrst painters in France. This very handsome compliment to his guest was not thrown away. Her Majesty felt greatly grati@ﬁed. In the afternoon the Royal party drove into the forest, and in the evening there was a splendid dinner at the chateau, which was attended by all the civil and military authorities of the place, as well as by the guests resident at the chateau. In the evening the Royal party attended a theatrical entertainment in the chateau, the performers of the Opera Comique having been sent for from Paris for the occasion. The performances were the ' Beau Seig-neur' and ' Richard Coeur de Lion.' On Tuesday morning the Royal party again drove in the forest in char-a-bancs, and returned to the chateau at half-past one. The Queen and Prince Albert afterwards walked in the ground attached to the palace. Shortly be-fore six in the evening her Majesty and the Prince, ac-companied by the King and Queen of the French, left the Chateau d'Eu for Tréport. A body of troops were sta-tioned in the quadrangle of the palace, and a consider-able crowd had gathered within its precincts. The vehi-cles used were the same as those for the forenoon ride. As they passed out the band played the English national anthem, and the crowd shouted Vive le Roi des Fran-çais et la Reine d'Angletaire. At six o'clock the cortège arrived at the landing-place, the bells of the church ring-ing merrily, and a distant battery of cannon @ﬁring a salute. The embarkation was speedily accomplished Louis Philippe handed the Queen on board, and the next moment the party was gliding rapidly seaward. Queen Victoria was the only lady on board the barge close to her sat the King of the French, Prince de Joinville, and Prince Albert Lord Aberdeen, M. Guizot, and Lord Liverpool, completed the party. The other members of the suite went in other boats. As the Royal barge shot past there was a tremendous rush along the jetty the steamers in the o@@ﬃng manned their yards, and the sea-ward batteries @ﬁred double royal salutes. At half-past six o'clock the Royal party were safely on board the ' Vic-toria and Albert,' and under weigh for England. The voyage across the Channel was prosperously performed-the weather continuing serene and the sea smooth. On Wednesday afternoon a telegraphic despatch from Portsmouth announced the safe arrival of her Majesty at Osborne house, in the Isle of Wight, after an absence from England of thirty-three days. THE FESTIVITIES AT PAMPELUNA. The preparations that have been made for the reception of the Queen and the Infanta of Spain and their Royal guests, the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale, are all on a scale of great splendour. Bull-@ﬁghting forms, of course, the principal feature of the amusements. The following is the programme of the festivities preparing by the loyal Narvarese for their Sovereign and her guests - The Queen our Lady having deigned to select this ca-pital in order to receive, in company with her august mother and sister, their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale on the 4th of Septem-ber next, and the municipality being desirous of celebrating in the most becoming manner so joyful an event, has pre-pared two bull-@ﬁghts, the combatants at which will be the celebrated Montes and his troop, another of novillos young bulls which will be encountered with lances and darts, and slain by the youthful amateurs of this city various com-pârsas and dances, splendid illuminations and @ﬁreworks prepared by eminent artists, and various other amusements. All these festivities, which will probably take place on the 4th. and following days, await the good pleasure of her Ma-jesty their positive ful@ﬁlment will be made known to the public at the earliest possible moment. At each of the two bull-@ﬁghts six bulls will be attacked with long lances and darts, and slain, besides one by the journeyman millers, ac-cording to ancient custom. The bulls will be selected from herds natives of the country. During the @ﬁght several bulls will be attacked with the cloak se capearan by the espada Montes, so justly celebrated for his skill in ever@y mode
 however, which were made straight down the hill, the water was at once carried o@ﬀ. In reference to the distance at which the drains were to  he begged leave to say, that that was a  should be varied under circumstances. Some subsoils were more porous than other@ but he would  to twenty feet distance between each of the drains they  purposes, and almost  of the  @ﬁnd generally to suit  soil he would recommend  the drains should not be so  inches of workable soil and that was the  he thought they should have in their land. Then, the drains should be made so deep as not to be touched by the plough for, if not, and the drains be made of tiles,  until 1833, when William and Charles Ridge took out the £10,000 as residuary legatees, and then restored the debt of Fry and Co. to its original amount of £48,000. Beside these palpable frauds, they paid legacy duty of £9,256 8s. 10d. upon their father's will, and -Mr. Commissioner Fane That was a fraud which was the cause of expense to them, as you say they had nothing to receive under their father's will. Mr. Chambers That might, sir, be so, but it was done with a view to deceive t@heir customers, in order ultimately to bene@ﬁt themselves. Mr. Charles Ridge had lived for years at the rate of £1,500 per annum, and that, although he must have known the bank to be in a state of hopeless insolvency. From a statement of their a@ﬀairs put before the Court of Review in a former stage of these proceedings, their real de@ﬁciencies from 1828 were these in 1829, £51,400 in 1830, £51,900 in 1831, £46,000 in 1832, £47,000 in 1833, £42,000 in 1834, £48,000 in 1835, £52,000 in 1836, £59,000 in 1837, £62,000 in 1838,  regards e@ﬀect and cheapness, they should always be made narrow at the bottom. The width of the drain at the top should be thirteen inches, and at the bottom about four inches and in that width, @he knew by experience, there was plenty of room for a man to use a spade and work. In @ﬁlling the drains @he would recommend stones, when they could be had, for they were more e@ﬀective than tiles. In the construc- tion of the drains, care should be taken not to put in large stones. Stones about the size of those used on the roads were the proper kind and, in almost all cases, in that part of the country, as many could be collected o@ﬀ the @ﬁelds as would be required hear, hear . After the stones have been put in, there was another important matter to attend to, namely, the covering, and for that purpose he would recommend a sod. If the drain were executed as he recommended, he would venture to say that in would last for @ﬁfty years. The sod should be cut thin, and so large that when put on it would go up a little on each side. Then the one should overlap the other, so that there would be no opening to allow the soil to run in. Mr. Smith, after some further observations on draining, said  of theof a hard‐worked life, and had  insolvency and beggary. It was quite clear that the bankrupts had been traders using every arti@ﬁce to deceive the world, and he Mr.  a loss to know upon what possible grounds they could now come before the court and ask for their certi@ﬁcate. Mr. Commissioner Fane I shall certainly @ﬁnd it neces- sary to read the examination, and examine the accounts you have referred to, before I can give my judgment in this matter. Mr. Missing, for the bankrupts, strongly denied the allegations made against them. The errors they committed in keeping their accounts were entirely errors of judgment, and out of 1,100 creditors, who were said to have proved against their estate, not one of them was now here to op- pose the grant of the bankrupts' certi@ﬁcate. No conceal- ment had been charged against them. No intentional fraud could be established, or was sought to be established against them they had made a full disclosure of the real state of their a@ﬀairs. The bad debts referred to as having been  Mr. Wilkinson, and also to Mr. Goldsmidt, to ask for the job of distraining in both of Allford's places of business. He did not know that he should have gone if Allford had not sent him. There was a horse in the stables when he distrained upon Allford. He could not account for striking out the horse and cart, and putting down one set of harness instead of two in the list of articles distrained upon. Cross‐examined by Mr. Cooke Allford told him that he had not paid his rent, and he thought he might as well ap- ply for business. Goldsmidt was a wholesale warehouse- man in Friday‐street, of immense wealth. William Wyles, an upholster, and son‐in‐law of the in- solvent, said that, as he was not in a condition to pay the £20 bills to which he had put his name, he would give up the lease for the bene@ﬁt of the creditors. The witness handed the lease into court. Mr. Woodro@ﬀe commented upon the di@@ﬃculty of fully accounting for the disappearance of the insolvent's pro- perty. His debts in March last were £200 or £300 less than now, and the creditors had got but little out of the estate. Mr. Cooke said, that from the time he attempted a com- position with his creditors, the insolvent's a@ﬀairs became worse and worse. For fourteen days at a time he had been known to take no more in his business than 14s. Nothing but failure could be the result of the competition to which he had been exposed. No evidence had been given of the wilful concealment of any of his property. His whole course of late had been a struggle with di@@ﬃculties which came upon him in rapid succession. He had now not a penny in the world in his possession@. He had been beaten down by the force of circumstances over which he had no control. The learned Chief Commissioner adjourned the case for a fortnight, to give time for a further and more rigid inquiry as to the insolvent's property. The insolvent, in consequence of the illness of his wife, was admitted to bail. The court rose at a late hour. POLICE  BOW‐STREET.T@W. Jones was brought up for @ﬁnal examination, charged with stealing two silver watches and other articles, the property of Edward Barrier. The prosecutor stated that he was a watchmaker and jeweller, and resided in Wych‐street, Drury‐lane. He had known the prisoner for a considerable time, from his having occupied apartments in the upper part of his house. Wit- ness reposed the greatest con@ﬁdence in him, in consequence of his very regular habits, and had frequently entrusted him with the charge of his shop during his temporary absence. On the 6th of December witness had occasion to leave home for a short time, and he left the prisoner, as before, in charge of the shop, but on his return he was astonished to @ﬁnd that the prisoner had absconded,@ leaving the shop altogether unprotected, and had taken with him two watches and a variety of other articles, the property of witness. He immediately went to the nearest station‐house and gave in- formation of the robbery. @@@@Two pawnbrokers' shopmen were called, who proved that the prosecutor's watches had been pledged at their em- ployers' shops by the prisoner within a few days after the robbery was committed. Pocock, an o@@ﬃcer, stated that, having received informa- tion of the robbery, he made inquiries after the prisoner, and at length succeeded in taking him into custody at a pub- lic‐house in the Blackf@riars‐road. The prisoner was next charged with stealing a waist- coat, the property of a pot‐boy at a public‐house in  declined saying anything in his defence, and was committed for trial on both charges. MANSION‐HOUSE.  well‐dressed young fellow, named William Melbourne, was brought before the Lord Mayor, charged with having attempted to rob a lady. Mr. Waddington, of No. 119, London‐wall, stated that he saw the prisoner, who was accompanied by another per- son, thrust his hand into the pocket of a lady, who was passing along the street, and immediately collared him. The lady was terri@ﬁed, and witness held the prisoner fast, having been in the habit of taking such characters, as he often had large amounts about him.@@@@ The prisoner, upon being asked who he was, said he had been a silversmith about six months ago, but he could not exactly tell what he was at the present moment. The Lord Mayor requested to be informed who the pri- soner's father was and where he lived ?-The prisoner re- plied that be really could not gratify hi@s lordship's cu- riosity. The Lord Mayor Is there any one here who can say any- thing about you ?-The prisoner Not that I know of, with the exception of the o@@ﬃcer a laugh . Policeman No. 32 here stepped forward and said @he had known the young man as connected with a gang of thieves who infested the neighbourhood of t@he banking‐houses, that some of the prisoner's former companions had been transported, and that he had been watched by the police on Monday last about the Bank for @ﬁve hours, in company of @ﬁve most notorious robbers. The Lord Mayor This is bad testimony to your character, Mr. Melbourne.-The prisoner Nobody can say that I ever was in custody. Gooch, the turnkey of the Compter My lord, he has been in custody in the name of Jenkins, and the gaoler of Bridewell has been to see him, and@ knows him well as an old acquaintance.@@@@ The prisoner Well, what is the extent of my o@ﬀence ?-The Lord Mayor You know I can send you as a rogue and a vagabond, and you must go for two months. The prisoner Very well, here goes laughter . The prisoner was then committed to the House of Cor- rection for the time stated by his lordship.  tailor in a dirty shirt and without coat or waistcoat, whose name was stated to be William Raison, was charged by his landlord, Michael Denny, a Corkman, in the same line of business, with having cleared away the blankets of his @well‐furnished room, and deposited them in the room of his uncle, a neigh-bouring pawnbroker, for the small consideration of the loan of three shillings@@. Mr. Denny, in the genuine tone and with the  submitted that the bankrupts were entitled to their  was drawn with from six, and sometimes with as many as eight horses but it should never be used for a year, and in some lands two years, after the land had been drained. He would recommend the ploughing to be across the drains for, in doing so, they would not only open a better channel for the carrying o@ﬀ of the water, but they would save labour for it was much easier to plough across a hill than up and down hear, hear, hear . The course to be taken, in using the subsoil plough, was, @ﬁrst, to throw out a large open furrow of the active soil, with the common plough then the subsoil plough should follow, and thoroughly break up the subsoil. It would be important to take oﬀ as much as possible of the active soil with the common plough, and thereby leave as little as they could for the subsoil plough to do for working with it was severe on both men and horses. When the subsoil was thoroughly broken up, the next furrow of the active soil should be thrown over the last opened furrow of t@he subsoil, and so on, until the work was ended. There was another advantage in the subsoil plough-it threw up any stones which came in its way. It was provided with a spur, for the purpose and another, and greater advantage, to be derived from using that plough, was, that they could take up the subsoil, by degrees, and mix it with the active soil. Bringing the subsoil to the surface all at once would produce great sterility hear, hear . Mr. Smith conclud@ed by saying he was ready to answer any questions that might be put to him. Mr. W. BLACKER would inquire, for the bene@ﬁt of t@he farmers, whether the drains should not be made perfectly straight@? He had seen many in the country which were very crooked. Mr. SMITH The drains should be perfectly straight for if you look at a serpentine river you will ﬁnd its course much larger than if it ran in a direct line. They should  said that he was at present un- prepared to give any judgment, but would read through the proceedings, and give his adjudication on a future day. INSOLVENT DEBTORS' COURT@‐DEC. 31. @IN RE EDWARD ALLFORD.@@ Edward Allford was opposed by Mr. Woodro@ﬀe, for Messrs. Hartills, wholesale ironmongers, No. 89, West Smith@@ﬁeld. He was supported by Mr. Cooke. This insolvent was a furniture‐broker and bedstead- manufacturer, in Westminster‐bridge‐road. He was a bankrupt in 1832, and discharged by the Insolvent Court in 1835. His liabilities under his present insolvency amounted to £800. The good debts due to him amounted to £1 9s. The ground of the opposition was making away with his property@@@@@. He was examined by Mr. Woodro@ﬀe, at considerable length, as to the disposal of his property. He had laid out about £400 on his premises and rent and taxes had run away with the rest. He had a lease of the house in Westminster‐bridge‐road, but had parted with it about six months ago to a Mr. Wyles, because he lent his name to four bills of £20 each, which, becoming@ due, he by that means got renewed. He had put the creditors for the £20 bills in the schedule. He had no objection to have the lease @ﬁled, provided Wyles would give it up. He had agreed at a meeting of his creditors, in March last, at Peele's Co@ﬀee‐house, to pay £20 a fortnight into the hands of Mr. Bartholomew, who, with another gentleman, was appointed to receive it, for distribution amongst the creditors. He had   hi@m@ and, his wife a room, and I not only let 'em a room, but I lent him the money to marry his wife wid laughter . Well, sure enough they got married, and ho@me he lugs her to my decent res@pectable place and as I must tell the truth, upon my sowl they took liberties with my bed in a most shame- ful manner laughter . The Lord Mayor You mean they stripped the bed of the bed clothes ?-Complainant Your lordship talks of it as if you were present and seen all that happened. Yes, they did take every stitch, and the devil a morsel of bed was to be seen in the place. The Lord Mayor And how long have they been married @?-The Complainant Two months, your honour and to make him comfortable I gave him a job that I had to do myself, but he was too lazy to do it, and nothing could get him out of his bed a laugh . Mr. Hobler What, not at the end of two months ?-The Complainant No, faith. A body might think that after the @ﬁrst month he might rise to attend to business, but the devil a bit of him could be got up by hook or by crook until the morning he tuck my blankets to his uncle, and then both him and her got up early enough to strip the whole building laughter  Is he a countryman of yours @?- less ex- pense in doing so. Mr. B@LACKER inquired whether draining the land in a dry season would not make it too dry. Mr. SMITH said that was a very general opinion, but it was an erroneous one draining in dry weather had the contrary e@ﬀect it pulverised the earth and made it spongy, so that it retained more water in the pores of it than it would under other circumstances. Several other questions were put, and answered very satisfactorily by Mr. Smith. A vote of thanks was passed by acclamation to Mr. Smith@@@@ having returned thanks in suitable terms, the meeting separated. Mr. Smith delivered a lecture on draining and subsoiling in Glasslough, the seat of Mr. Leslie, on Tuesday. He lectured in Monaghan, also, on Thursday. On each occa-sion there was a large attendance of the landed proprietors and intelligent farmers and an anxiety not the lose a syl- able that fell from Mr. Smith was visible in almost every countenance. @@POOR LAWS-PROPOSED PUBLIC MEETING. A requisition, addressed to the mayor, is in course of sig- nature, calling upon his worship to convene a meeting of the inhabitants of this borough, for the purpose of taking into consideration the propriety of calling on the several boards of guardians and rate payers of the city and county of Cork to @ﬁx a day previously to the 22d of January for holding a general meeting of the rate payers of the city and county of Cork in reference to the abused of the present poor‐law.-Southern Reporter. Mr. O'Connell is to at- tend this  TENANT. TO THE EDITOR OF THE DUBLIN EVENING POST. @@Ardee, 29th December.  in this neighbourhood of one of the weal thiest proprietors, a young man who has hitherto stood high in public opinion, Mr. Thomas Fortescue, of Ravensdale Park, late a member for the county, was yesterday invaded by a driver and a host of baili@ﬀs one of whom was put in charge of each house and haggard, with two exceptions,  number do not owe a farthing of the rent of 1841@@ they are, without exception, industrious honest people, paying very high rents-as high as 50s. per Irish  without leases such was the will of the late Lord Claremont, from whom the property is inherited , and yet compelled to build houses of two stories, without other aid @than slates if they purchase the timber @ﬁtted for such roo@ﬁng, their scanty capital has been expended on those houses and premises their haggards are full of corn even the apprehension of loss from indulgence cannot  is in the county of Kilkenny, partaking of the hospitality, and witnessing the kindness, the annual  of his lady's family to their  here exclaim he knows nothing of what is doing in his absence, or of their su@ﬀerings. It is hoped this notice may attract his attention. A MAN  Right Hon. the Lord Mayor, with his usual liberality, has ordered the s@word bearer Mr. Arkins , and the high constable Mr. Sinnott , to provide a plentiful dinner of beef, bread, @c@., for the inmates of the Mendicity on New Year's‐day to- morrow . The order has been given in consequence of the Lord Mayor's intention not being carried out on Christ- mas‐day, the Lord‐Lieutenant having sent them a dinner on that @On Wednesday the 21st inst., Sir Henry Hunloke, Bart., of Wingerworth Hall, proceeded, along with Mr. Brown and other wit- nesses, to take possessi@@on of the brancli line of railroad leading from @Hopton‐bridge to Ti@mber  as the Duke's line , which the North Midl@and Company has for- feited to him under certain arrangements.-Derbyshire  the money had been paid to the creditors. A distress had been put in by his landlord for rent, which he paid out by selling his horse and cart and bor- rowing money from other people. A distress for rent had also been put into his other place of business in Sta@ﬀord‐row, Pimlico. The stock in trade and the goods, after they were condemned, were su@ﬀered to remain on the premises, in Westminster- bridge‐road, as it was thought that more money could be obtained by selling them by retail than at the auction- rooms. The purchase‐money of goods sold after the distress was put in went to the landlord. Mr. Woodro@ﬀe In your schedule you say that you paid Mr. Goldsmidt, the landlord of the premises in Sta@ﬀord- place, £25 within a fortnight of his distraining was that so ?-Insolvent I am satis@ﬁed he had nothing so recently as that@@. I paid £10, but that was six months before the distress was put in. The schedule was admitted to be in some other particulars incorrect. The insolvent said he had been losing for years, from opposition in business, and other ca@uses. Cross‐examined by Mr. Cooke Seven or eight of his creditors attended the meeting at Peele's Co@ﬀee‐house. He had said that he could pay them twenty shillings in the pound, if they gave him time to recover himself. Notwith- standing the agreement that he was to pay £20 a fortnight, some of the creditors sued him a short time afterwards. He was compelled to make forced sales to pay these de- mands, and also to ful@ﬁl his engagement to pay the credi- tors £20 a fortnight. The goods were taken to Bullock's and Foster's, and the sacri@ﬁce was immense. His wife had been ill a long time, and he had heavy doctor's bills to pay. A large opposition shop was opened close to him, and they sold articles for 15s. which he could not get under 22s. or 25s. That @ﬁrm had lately failed for £10,000. The distress was put in for £86 2s. 6d., a year's rent. George Bartholomew, a carpet‐manufacturer in Fins- bury‐pavement, was then examined. He was a creditor of the insolvent for £8 12s. 6d. When the meeting of credi- tors took place he was a creditor to the amount of £50 7s. 1d. Witness and Mr. Hartills were appointed to receive £20 a fortnight for the creditors. He had received £20 on the 20th of April last, on account of that agreement. He had received £62 18s. 8d. in all. The £2 18s. 8d was for goods subsequently supplied to the insolvent. He received the money in six payments. He received £40 on account of his original debt. When the insolvent paid him the instalments he said he would be a great fool if he did not keep it for himself. He did not add he should be a great rogue if he did so. Such an idea might have occurred to his mind a laugh . He dis- tributed £11 7s. 6d. in all amongst the creditors. He was not prepared to pay more, because he intended to appre- priate it to the payment of his own debt. He could not name the time when the insolvent said he would be a fool if he did not keep the money himself. The insolvent did not say it to him. His young man told him that he said so. He did not appropriate all the @ﬁrst £20 to himself, because he thought the insolvent intended to keep up the payments. He never spoke to the creditors as to what he should do with the money. He had settled that in his own mind. He did not divide the money amongst the other creditors, as nothing could be gained by it a laugh . The money was not then in his possession. He would not pay it in to court, because he thought he ought to pay himself @ﬁrst. Mr. Cooke Have you ever been a trustee before, and acted in the same way ?-Witness It might be so a laugh, in which the witness joined . Mr. Cooke said it was a shocking announcement@@. The learned Chief Commissioner said it was a lamentable exhibition. The spectators had indeed laughed, but it was a kind of laugh as much as to say what a very consummate  from the witness .  unblush- ing dishonesty he never saw in his life.@@ Thomas @Heaford, broker, of No. 86, Bridge‐road, Lam- beth, was examined as to t@he value of the insolvent's pro- perty when the landlord, Mr. Cobbold, put in the distress@@. @The total condensation was £58. If it had been taken to a sale room it would not have produced £25 but the land- lord had lost by holding over, as another quarter's rent wasrs ?-The Complainant No, he says he  for all that I don't wish to hurt him. But you see,  lord, in my country we don't think it kind to rob a man that gives another employment and lodging, and a wife in the bargain great laughter . The Lord Mayor No it is not kind. The Complainant I must tell the truth, your honour he is a lazy and good‐for‐nothing fellow as ever crossed a board, but if he'll promise to work it out, I'll forgive him, and take him in again. The defendant said he was willing enough to work it out, but he could not prevail upon his wife to let him get up in proper time in the morning laughter . And when he ar- gu@ﬁed with her, she said the honeymoon always lasted ano- ther month longer, and she did not see why they should be the @ﬁrst to break the rule. The Complainant Sure I didn't want you to do so. But you might have earned 12s. a week at any rate, and had plenty of fun great laughter . The Lord Mayor to the complainant Well, you cer- tainly are a good‐natured fellow, and I think you may try this man once more. Let him pay you so much a week by working for you, and if he persists in lying in bed and neglecting his business, bring him before me, and I'll cure him of his honeymoon tricks by sending him to prison, where he shall have no inducement to lie in bed longer than nature requires laughter . His lordship then gave the complainant half‐a‐crown to commence the new year with, and received many blessings and thanks in return for his kindness from the poor ill‐treated tailor. Mr. Robert Mercer, a man of property, was put to the bar, charged with having arrived at such a state of intoxi- cation on the preceding night as to be unable to utter a  in a corner, and you must answer me. Do you believe in a  Upon my word, you must not-Miss Newell Oh, well, I suppose you do believe well, that's one point gained, however. Here the court was an irrepressible scene of laughter . Well, as I told you some twenty‐four years ago, when we were both much younger, that I had a divine revelation from heaven, which informed me I should sit upon the throne of this kingdom. What was the consequence ? They locked me up in St. Luke's. However, I got out, and again I paid you a visit when you were lord mayor, at the Mansion‐house, some time ago. Alderman Yes, I remember it, Miss. Miss Newell in a voice of triumph Oh ! you do remem- ber it. Well, then, from that hour to this I have pursued the same steady line of conduct laughter , and my undy- ing conviction is striking her hand with so much force upon the table that Mr. Schole@ﬁeld was raised up from his nap , that I shall wear the crown of England, have a large house, and keep a great number of servants. Alderman Now, pray madam, come to a conclusion, for you see t@he @ﬁve minutes have just expired. Miss Newell looking at the clock and again at her watch Not so fast, sir I know what o'clock it is roars besides, I say that the Queen of this country sets a bad ex- ample to her subjects. Alderman I cannot hear this. You must not be allowed to talk thus. I won't listen. Miss Newell But you must, and I ask again, why the Queen, a lady occupying a station the highest in the land, does not suckle her own child ? Only place me in such a situation, Sir Chapman, and I'll let the world see an ex- ample of a great lady nurturingher own babe. The gravity of t@he court was quite overcome by this speech, and justice fairly laughed outright. Alderman Miss Newell, you have had more than @ﬁve minutes allowed you, and I must beg of you to retire. Do not compel me to use force. Miss Newell Well, I've done for the present. I rather like you, Sir Chapman, and as it's the last day of the old year I was determined to say as much as I could, and I think I've opened some of your eyes, so give us your hand at par@ting. The alderman most good humouredly extended his hand, at the request of the lady, who, after shaking it most warmly, dropped a graceful curtsey to the alderman, ex- claiming, Pardon me, Sir Chapman, if I take leave of you in the words of a good old song-' Adieu, thou dreary pile@@'@ loud laughter, during which the candidate for the Crown withdrew . M@A@RLBOROUGH@ Ewart, one of the London Fire Brigade, was charged with having as- saulted Humphrey Nathan, of Star‐court, Soho. It appeared that the complainant's wife superintended a bath in Star‐court, where ladies of the Jewish persuasion attended for the purpose of performing ablutions at pre- scribed periods. @@@@@@The defendant one day last week came to the house, and said an alarm of @ﬁre had been given at the brigade station, and he desired to be let in. The daughter of the complainant answered him to the e@ﬀect that no @ﬁre was in the house, and that there was no need for the attend- ance of the @ﬁremen. The defendant, however, pushed her on one side, and tried to force open the street door, which was shut but not being able to e@ﬀect this, he opened the window, and made his way into the parlour. The defendant then went up stairs, and on encountering the complainant, who had been roused at hearing the noise made by the de- fendant, he pushed him against the wall, and proceeded to examine the house to see if any @ﬁre was about. The exa- mination was fruitless, as no @ﬁre could be discovered. The complainant said the push was su@@ﬃciently violent to send him reeling against the wall. The defendant said an alarm was given that a @ﬁre was in one of the chimneys in the defendant's house. He went to the place, and on being refused admittance he got in at the window, and looked over the house. On going to the place where the copper was placed for heating the bath, he saw enough to induce him to believe that the chimney had been on @ﬁre. He denied having assaulted any one, and what he had done was solely with the view of preventing danger, in case the house had been on @ﬁre. The complainant denied that the upper chimney had been on @ﬁre. Mr. Hardwick said no @ﬁreman was justi@ﬁed under any pretence in forcing his way into a house. The defendant's conduct was without excuse, and therefore he should impose a @ﬁne of 20s, and costs. The inspector said he believed the Fire Brigade generally were aware that they were not permitted to force an entrance into a house against the leave of the owner. @Mr. Hardwick said, as the @ﬁremen had obtained sum- monses for the usual reward, upon the allegation that the chimney had been on @ﬁre, he certainly should not give any reward under such circumstances, and he should there- fore advise the withdrawal. CLERKENWELL. A girl, seventeen years of age, named Eliza Riley, charged her mistress, a female named C@ox, a tambour‐worker, in Vincent‐terrace, Islington, with assaulting her, by cutting her hair o@ﬀ. The complainant said she was apprenticed by St. Giles's @parish to the defendant nearly six years ago, and had been, during that time, often ill‐used by Mrs. Cox. On Wed- nesday last the latter grumbled at her for not doing more work, and because she answered that she could do no more, her mistress suddenly came behind her, and cut o@ﬀ the hair at the back of her head. She then took o@ﬀ her bonnet and exposed where It had been hacked about. Mr. Combe, the magistrate, said he thought her mistress had done no harm whatever, that he could see nothing to @ﬁnd fault with, that if it was hacked her mistress could get a barber to cut it even, and that if the complainant did not go home and mind what her mistress said, she would be brought up here and then sent to the House of Correction, where her hair would be cropped short enough. The poor parish apprentice was then taken away, crying very much. She seemed to feel very sorely the loss of her hair, and might have felt herself degraded by being cropped-at least, if she did not, thousands of girls at her age would have done so. BIGAMY.-A rather respectable‐looking middle‐aged man, named Thomas William Mead Shadwell, foreman in a corn chandlery establishment, in Church‐street, Isling- ton, was charged with bigamy. Mr. Flower appeared for  defended the  that the  @ﬁne, as in such a case as the present the pecuniary penalty is ut- terly inadequate to the  Flower stated that on the 10th of May, 1832, the pri- soner was married in the parish church of Hackney to Miss Sarah Brentford, his lawful wife, with whom he lived two or three years, and then deserted @her, and that o@n the 21st of January, 1838, he married Caroline Sparrowhawk Smith, Sarah Shadwell being still living. The second marriage took place in Trinity Church, Cambridge. Mr. Flower then handed in the certi@ﬁcates of both marriages, but stated that in consequence of his being unable to obtain the attendance of the second wife on that occasion, he would pray his worship for a remand. Mr. Combe said he had as yet but documents, and a statement. He should hear some evidence. Mr. Flower then produced police constable Whikcher, of the detective force, who deposed to having arrested the pri- soner on the previous night in Church‐street, Islington. Mr. Justins Mr. Flower's clerk deposed that he ques- tioned the prisoner, on his arrest, the previous evening, as to whether or not he had been twice married and the pri- soner admitted he had. Some other witnesses were examined, particularly the brother‐in‐law of the @ﬁrst wife, who deposed to the @ﬁrst marriage, and to having seen both marriages in the Mar- riage Record Book, in Somerset‐house. Mr. Combe said he believed it was not the original Re- cord‐book that was kept there but a copy. The witness said he thought so. Mr. Combe then expressed his readinessss to remand the prisoner. Mr. Stoddart hoped his worship would accept of bail for his client, who was a man of excellent character, and gen- teelly connected, and could procure it of a most satisfactory nature. Mr. Combe said he considered the case of too serious a character, and too clearly established, to admit of bail being received.-He was then locked  Belmont Meeting.-The cup was won by Mr. Bremer's Beeswing, beating in the deciding course Mr. Racksten's Thingshill. Bingham Meeting, Dec. 33.-The Chester@ﬁeld Stakes were won by Mr. Chettle's Lath, and the second class of the Chester@ﬁeld Stakes by Mr. Taylor's Tawney. HUNTING APPOINTMENTS. Her Majesty's staghounds meet on Wednesday at Wink@ﬁeld Church, and on Friday at Iver Heath, at eleven. Lord Gi@ﬀord's hounds meet on Wednesday at Re@ady Token, and on Saturday at Coleshill, at half‐past ten. The Vine hounds meet on Thursday at Malshanger House, and on Saturday at Kingsclere, at eleven. Sir W. M. Ridley's hounds meet on Wednesday at Clifton, on Friday at Gosforth, and on Saturday at Plessy Checks, at half- past ten. Mr. Watson's hounds meet on Friday at Sturton Grange, at ten. The Prudhoe and Derwent hounds meet to‐morrow at Coalburn, and on Friday at Gibside.@@ The Haydon hounds meet on Wednesday at Coweysike, and @on Saturday at Common House, at nine. The Slaley hounds meet on Wednesday at Fotherley Gill, and on Saturday at Slaley, at nine. The Wheatland hounds meet to‐morrow at Kempton, at nine. The Torquay harriers meet to‐morrow at Scots Bridge@, and on Friday at Stoke Common. The Puckeridge hounds meet on Wednesday at Elsenham,and on Saturday at Great Munden, at half‐past ten. Mr. @Brand's hounds meet on Wednesday at Kimpton Mill, and on Friday at Gaddesden, at half past ten. The Norfolk hounds meet to morrow at East Bashan, on Thurs- day at Chapel Mill, Gressenhall, and on Saturday at Saham Wood, at half-past ten. The Surrey Union hounds meet on Wednesday at Jayes, and on Saturday at Hatchlands, at half‐past ten. The East Sussex hounds meet on Thursday at the Bal and Ball, and on Saturday at Southease, at a quarter to @eleven. The Whitby harriers meet on Wednesday at Pickering, and on Friday at Normanby Hill. @The York and Ainsty hounds meet to morrow at the Red House, on Thursday at Ribston Park, and on Saturdaya rimston Bar, at half-past ten.@@@@@@ The F.B.H. meet to‐morrow at Constantine Cross, and on Thurs- day at Benithon, at ten. Baron Rothschild's stag‐hounds meet on Thursday at the Kennel, at eleven.@@ The Warwickshire Hounds meet to‐morrow at Weston House, on Thursday at Wellesbourne, and on Saturday at Upton House, at half‐past ten. The Quorn Hounds meet to morrow at Bardon Hall, on Thursday at Thorpe Satchville, and on Friday at Bunny, at a quarter to eleven. The Badswerth hounds meet to‐morrow at Wentbridge, on Thurs- day at Hickleton Hall, and on Saturday at Shafton Two Gates, at half‐past ten. Mr. Foljambe's hounds meet on Wednesday at Rossington Bridge, on Friday at Headon Chump, and on Saturday at Scrooby Bar, at half‐past ten. The Ry@ﬀord hounds meet on Thursday at Hockerton Bar. Lord Yarborough's hounds meet on Wednesday at Swallow Vil- lage, and on Friday at Usselby House, at eleven. The Sherwood harriers meet to morrow at Mans@ﬁeld Race Course, and on Friday at the Second Milestone on the Nottingham Road, at eleven. @Mr. A. Smith's hounds meet to‐morrow at Manninford, on Wed- nesday at Clarendon Park, on Thursday at Tangley, and on Friday at Netheravon, at eleven. The Essex Union hounds meet to‐morrow at Hazeleigh Hall, and on Saturday at Felix Hall. The Tickham hounds meet on Thursday at Lynsted Street, and on Saturday at Long Beach, at half‐past ten. Mr. Atty's hounds meet to‐morrow at Overton Bridge, on Thurs- day at Whittington, and on Saturday at Marchwiel, at half‐past ten. Mr. Russell's hounds meet on Wednesday at Brancepeth, and on Friday at Plawsworth Bar, at eleven. Mr. Robertson's hounds meet to‐morrow at Etall, and on Friday at Ross Links, at half‐past ten. Mr. Farquharson's hounds meet to‐morrow at St. Giles's, and on Thursday at Melcomb Park. Mr. Drax's hounds meet on Wednesday at Trent Barrow. M. H. meet to‐morrow at Doles Ash, and on Friday at the second milestone on the Upper Sherborne Road from Dorchester. Mr. D@eane's harriers meet to morrow at Hunter's Lodge. Sir R. Sutton's hounds meet to‐morrow at Cottesmore, on Wed- nesday at the Bull, Witham Common, on Thursday at Burley on the Hill, on Friday at Castle Bytha@m, and on Saturday at Loddington Hall, at eleven. The Atherstone hounds meet on Wednesday at Seal Wood, on Thursday at Kingsbury Wood, and on Saturday at Church Over. Sir F. Goodriche's hounds meet on Wednesday at West Haddon, on Friday at Badby Wood, and on Saturday at Dunston, at a quarter to eleven. Major General Wyndham's hounds meet on Wednesday at Rowner Mill, on Friday at Lea Farm, and on Saturday at Shillinglee Park. The Horsham hounds meet on Thursday at Rowhooke, and on Saturday at Lovell Heath. Mr. Drake's hounds meet on Tuesday at Croughton Village, and on Saturday at Rycote Kennel, at half‐past ten. Mr. Musters's hounds meet to‐morrow at Heneage Arms, Hainton, on Thursday at Mareham village, and on Friday at the Fourth Mile- stone on the Hagworthingha@m‐road, at eleven. The Hurworth hounds meet to‐morrow at Cotc@liﬀe Wood, and on Saturday at Hurworth. Lieutenant Colonel Hildyard's harriers meet on Thursday at Swainby Bridge. The Wynyard hounds meet on Thursday at the Red Lion, on the Sunderland road, at half‐past ten. The Holderness hounds meet to‐morrow at Bishop Burton, on Thursday at Wood Hall, and on Friday at Kilnwick Percy. The Cambridgeshire hounds meet on Friday at Morden Heath, at half‐past ten. The Oakley hounds meet to‐morrow at Riseley, on Thursday at the London entrance to Woburn Park, and on Saturday at Hurwick, at eleven. The Whitecross harriers meet to morrow at Betloe Lane, and on Saturday at Puttingham. The Berkshire hounds meet on Wednesday at Hendred, and on Friday at Curbridge, at half‐past ten. Lord Redesdale's hounds meet on Wednesday at Burton Gate, on Friday at New Barn, and on Saturday at Spiisbury. Mr. W. S. Lowndes's hounds meet to‐morrow at Halton, and on Friday at Denbigh Hall. The Boro@ugh@bridge harriers meet to‐morrow at Aldbrough, and on Friday at Blows Hall. The Eddlethorpe hounds meet on Wednesday at halt way between Stamford Bridge and Gate Hemsley, and on Friday at Scampton Bridge, at half‐past ten. The Sinnington hounds meet to‐morrow at Sinnington, and on Friday at Nawton, at ten. The Bedale hounds meet on Wednesday at Watless Village, and on Friday at Middleton Tyas, at half‐past  this day at   and cloudy. Seven p.m. W.S.W., light airs and hazy. DEAL, DEC. 30.-Wind S.W. to W.S.W. -Arrived the Mary and Anne fr@om  Harvey from Monte Video, Camero@ns from  and Gazelle for Sydney, and Euphrates for Calcutta.  W.N.W., strong and squally.-Arrived the Water Lily from London for  DEC. 29.-Arrived the Cecilia Louise from Hamburg for Valparaiso, and John Oldham from London for  29.-Arrived the Eclipse from Hamburg  30.-Wind W., fresh breezes.-Arrived the Jo- hannes from Coquimbo, left August 8 bound to Swansea lost her bulwarks, @@c. Xavier from Hamburg for Vera Cruz.  DEC. 30.-Arrived the Eleanor from Demerara.  29.-Arrived the Endymion from Quebec, Ventrosa from Hull for Boston, George Delnis from ditto for St. Thomas's. The Felix, fro@m Finland to Gibraltar,  been towed into  the St. John from  27.-The Hostilina, of Guernsey, has put in here with loss of bowsprit, cutwater, c., and foremast sprung, having been in contact with the brig Pearl yesterday afternoon@. CORK, DEC. 28.-Arrived the Robert Watt from Virginia, with loss of boats, bulwarks, @c. and Olinda from St. John's, New Bruns- wick. CLYDE, DEC. 28.-Arrived the Blomedon from Newfoundland. NEW ROSS, DEC. 26.-Arrived the Juliet from Newfoundland.  30.-The Yarrow, whilst at anchor between Dungeness and the Spurn, was run into by a sloop and  29.-@The Alice Haviland was run into o@ﬀ the Holmes on the 27th instant, and cut down to the water's edge, by a schooner name unknown . The Wellington, from St. Andrew's to this port, has put into Bideford with decks swept.  19.-A cask of rum marked @@A.E. 25, 13, and some casks of tar, have been picked up near Lysekihl.  10.-The-, Brigge, from Dram timber- laden has put into St. Kudne Ness leaky, and with loss of deck‐load. MEMEL, DEC. 20.-The Fortuna, in leaving the port to‐day took the ground, but was got o@ﬀ and proceeded.  25.-The Vrouw Elida, from Konigsberg to Ant- werp, sprung a leak and foundered W.N.W. of Fehmern crew saved.  24.-The Louise and Julie, from Wolgast, put in here to‐day leaky, and will probably hare to  27.-The Adela from Cadiz got ashore at the mouth of the river, was assisted o@ﬀ with considerable damage cargo landing in a damaged state.  31.-Arrived the Dorothy from Quebec, Helen from Mogadore, Mentor from Leghorn, Countess of Lonsdale steamer from Hamburg. 30. Elizabeth from Jamaica, Ontario from New Yor@k, Prince George from Halifax, Adventure from Terceira, City of Boulogne steamer from Boulogne. Sailed the Emerald for Ceylon, Rachel for Sydney. Alicia for Port Philip, Barbara Gordon for Tobago, Charlotte Wylie for Af@rica, Juanita for the Canaries, and Mentor for Constantinople.  Jersey Lass from Bristol to Africa, on the 21st ult., in lat. 45, long. 17. by the Adventure, arrived In the River. The Havanna Packet bound to the River Plate, on the 16th Novem- ber, in lat. 6 S., long. 26 Victoria from Liverpool to New South Wales, on the 20th, in lat -, long. 24 Lawrence Copeland bound to Monte Video, on the 27th, in @lat. 12 N , long. 29, by the Mary and Anne, arrived in the Downs. T@he Castro from Rio Janeiro to Hamburg, on the 4th ult., in lat. 26, Ion. 34 Ariadne from Hamburg to Valparaiso,. on the 20th, in lat. 43, long. 16, by the Johannes, arrived at Falmouth. The Ranger packet from Falmouth to Rio Janeiro, in lat. 7 N., long. 26 W., by the Catharina Dorothea, arrived o@ﬀ Falmouth. The Columbia from Liverpool to New York, on the 17th ult., in lat. 42, long. 40, with loss of salls, c., and supplied by the Olinda, arrived at Cork. The Bidson from Liverpool to Calcutta, out seven days, in lat. 51, long. 9, by the Ratchford, arrived at Waterford. The Clyde, from Liverpool to Charleston, in long. 22 W., out 38 days, by the Sesostris, arrived at Belfast.  INWARDS AT THE CUSTOM‐HO@USE, DEC. 31. The True Love from Batavia, Elizabeth fro@m Jamaica, Ontario from New York, Prince George from Halifax, Dorothy from Quebec, Adventure from Terceira, Helen from Mogadore, Mentor from Leg- horn, Breeze from Bordeaux, Alexander from Guernsey, Countess of Lonsdale steamer from Hamburg, and Comet from Havannah. VESSELS ENTERED OUTWARDS FOR LOADING. The James for Dunkirk, Morayshire for Sydney, New South Wales, Courier for the Cape of Good Hope, Teresa for Trieste and Venice, Ontario for New York, Felia for -@, Gira@ﬀe steamer for Rotterdam, and Favourite for Elsineur and St. Petershurg. VESSELS CLEARED OUTWARDS WITH CAROO. The Emerald steamer for Boulogne, Ceres for Sierra Leone, Python for Antwerp and Brussecis, Willam Jelli@ﬀe steamer for Calais, Fame for Antwerp, Monarch for Amsterdam, Emerald for Tener@iﬀe, Nautilus for St. Lucia, Standard for Guernsey, Esealduana for Bilbao, Antwerpen steamer for Antwerp, and Anna Louisa for Bremen.  the demand is triﬂing. In OIL  is nothing new the article continues dull of sale at the late reduced rates. The sales of PALM OIL have been con@ﬁned to small lots in all about 100 tons ,  ton but by most holders these prices are refused. No business of the least import- ance has transpired in HEMP@ a small lot of Bombay sold at £16 per ten. TALLOW.-The market is still unusually dull for the sea- son, and some business has been done this week a tri@ﬂe lower, but the moderate stock prevents any material decline in prices a parcel of New Orleans Tallow, mixed, but part very good, sold at 45s 6d per cwt. DVEWOODS.-The sales are 130  7s 6d for Ca@mpeachy, and £4 10s to £4 15s for Jamaica 100 tons FUSTIC at previous rates, and 260 tone  12s 6d for Gaboou, and £6 10s per ton for Angola. The demand for  tinues regular for parcels of fair quality at 7s, at which price 2,00@0 barrels have been sold. No sales reported in TAR. The busi- ness in ASHES has been upon the most limited scale, at prices scarcely varying from those of last week. HIDES -No sales of moment have transpired this week. TOBACCO.-There has been a large business transacted during the month, and the sales reach 1,900 hhds, viz., 470 Virginia leaf, 500 stemmed, 235 Kentucky leaf, and 695 stemmed of these 450 were for Ireland, 130 for Scotlan@d, @260 for export, 220 for resale, and the remainder to the trade. Prices continue steady, and the market @ﬁrm. The transactions in East India Drysaltery articles are quite unimportant this week. 14 chests Madras INDIGO sold at 3s 2d to 3s 9d, a small lot of  at 23s, and a few chests SHELL  4@9s. Only 100  to report at 25s 6d, and a similar quantity of NI-  at 19s per sound, and 16s @6d all faults . SUGAR@.-There continues a steady demand for B. P., and the sales are 400 hhds, without change in price. Bengals are more inquired @for, particularly very @ﬁne white descriptions, and 4,000 bags have @been disposed of, chie@ﬂy from 67s 6d to 69s per cwt. 400 bags Mauritius are also reported. Foreign 32 cases good brown Bahia have been sold at 19s, and about @800 boxes ordinary to good yellow Havanna at 20S to 22s @6d, and 70 boxes white at 27s per cwt. MOLASSES.-A fair demand continues, and the sales amount to 200 puns Demerara, of good quality, at 28S from the quay, and 60 puns Antigua at 29s per cwt. COFFEE.-There are no sales of Plantation to report, but 50 bags Ceylon have been disposed of, the price not reported. Of Foreign, 36 bris of fair middling La Guayra brought @50S, and 160 bags good Costa Rica 61s per cwt. Nothing worthy of notice has oc- curred in   RUM.-The Sales are 55 puas Jamaica, of a favourite mark, at 4s 9d, 40 Demerara, and 50 casks East India at 2S per gallon. TEA -The demand continues limited, and the few transactions that have taken place have been at rather easier prices. WAKEFIELD CORN MARKET, DEC, 30. The fre@sh arrivals this week were large of Wheat and small of other articles @ﬁne qualities were comparatively scarce, and fully maintained their previous value, but interior Sorts were is per quarter cheaper. Barley also met a slow sale at a reduction of le- per quarter. Beans, Oats, and Shelling, on a limited retail inquiry were unaltered in value. Wheat Nortorik and Su@ﬀolk, new re@d, 45s to 48s, @ﬁne 50s Lincoln @and Cambridge, 43s t@o 45s, @ﬁne 48S Yorkshire, 43s to 44s, @ﬁne 46s new w@hite, 46S to 49s, ﬁne 54s old red, 43s to 45s, @ﬁne 48s old white, 45s to 48s, @ﬁne 52s per quarter of @60lbs to the bushel. Oats 16S to @19s, @ﬁne 21s per qua@rter mealing, 9d to 9½d, @ﬁne 9½d per stone Barley Norfolk and Su@ﬀolk, 26s to 28s, Chev. 30s Lincolnshire, 24s to 26s, @ﬁne 27s Yorkshire Wold, 24s to 2@6s, @ﬁne 27s per quarter of 54 1bs. Beans old, 29s to 31s, ﬁne 32S new, 25s to 27S, ﬁne 29s per quarter of 631bs. Shelling, 23s to 24s per load of 2@61 1bs. Malt, 33S to 36s, ﬁne 38s per load of 6 bushels imperial. Rape- seed, £30 to £31, @ﬁne £32 per last imperial. Arrivals report@@ed Wheat 7,667, Barley 2,391, Oats 926, Beans 580, Peas 173, She- ling 730@@. @@@WOOL  Trade continues much the same in this branch‐Very dull but this is usual in Christmas week. Foreign There has not been much business doing this week, being @the closing week of the year, and many are hoping for an increase of trade in the new year. WAKEFIELD.-There has not been much doing this weekek few sales of any note have been  usual at this period of the year, there is very little demand for either Foreign or Scotch Wool. The transactions during the last week were on a very limited Scale, but there was no material variation in prices. Arrivals this week -Foreign, 580 Scotch, 184. Previously this year -Foreign, 33,634@ Scotch, 3,092. Total -Foreign, 34,214 Scotch,  have seldom heard of a more striking instance of credulity than the following@@@, which occurred a week or two a@go, to a farmer who resided on the borders of the adjoining county of Yorkshire, in t@he parish of Bowland, and near to the town of Slaidburn. The name of his farm was Gold Hill, or, as it is called by his neighbours, Gowd Hill. A gypsy called upon the subject of our story, and knowing well the weak side of humanity, after speaking of the name of his farm, gave him sundry hints of its having reference to some treasure  on the premises, and which she could discover by certain means in her power. The wily ha@g quickly took advantage of his credulity in lending @@a willing @@ear to   from New Orleans, and Rising Sun from Laguna. SHIPS ENTER@D FOR LOADI@NG. The Grecian for Civita Vecchia, James Dunn for Corfu, Patras, and Zante, Zot@oﬀ for Havannah, Susquehanna for Philadelphia, and Sarah for Smyrna. SHIPS C@LEARED OUTWARDS. The Salome for Leghorn, Pearl for Lisbon, Patna and Nautilus for China, Nestor for Calcutta, Antigua packet for Cey@@lon, Autumnus for Jamaica, Joseph Porter for Mobile, and She@@ﬃeld for New fork. The Rising Sun, from Laguna, at this port, sailed on the 14th of November. The P. H. Dean was to sail in fourteen days for this port. The Duke of Wellington and the Sultana were to commence loading in a few days for this port. The port of Laguna was declared to be in a state of blockade. O@ﬀ port, the Corinthian, from Patras. LONDON  a HORSE.  Thursday last William North, of Monmouth‐street, Bath, tavern‐keeper, appeared before William Mount, Esq., chairman, and other magis- trates, to answer the complain@t of Mr. Henry Thomas, the secretary of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which charged him with having wantonly and cruelly abused, illtreated, and tortured a horse, at the parish of Welford, in the county of Berks. The defendant pleaded not guilty.  Baronet, 440 gs Master Thomas, 110 gs Lord of Holderness, 36 gs @@Philip. 370 gs Abernethy, 120 gs The AEra, 390 gs@@ Sir Benjamin, 50 gs Ameine, 44 gs. Brood Mares-The dam of Ameine, 76 gs Philip's dam, 110 gs AEra's dam, 80 gs Chapean de Paille@ 31 gs mare by Ishmael out of Arachne, 63 gs Lollypop, 53 gs mare by Langor, out of Marlon, 100 gs Rory O'More's dam, 135 gs mare by Velocipede, out of Dorabella, 33 gs mare by Velocipede, out of Streamlet, 70 gs. Yearlings ‐ Brown Bess, 29 gs Vates, 255 gs Theralcus, 250gs ch g by Ebberton, 52 gs. Foals-Colt by Bay Middleton, out of Ameine's dam, 29 gs colt by Bay Middletoo, out of Philip's da@m, 185 gs colt by Gladiator, dam by Langar, 30 gs colt by Gladiator, out of Lollypop, 21 gs a@nd @ﬁlly, by Gladiator, d by Ishmael, out of Arac@ne, 17 gs. The Sha@h stallion , 225 gs. Colonel Thompson's Hamlet fetched 470 gs. The following lots were also sold, the property of Lord George Bent@ick -Marrow Fat, 29 guineas Torchlight, 3 yrs, 29 guineas. Foals of 1842.-b c by Bay Middleton out of Phantasima, 15 guineas b f by Bay Middleton out of Torch, 10 guineas and b c by Bay Middleton out of Torchlight, 10 guineas. M@iscellaneous lots.-Hamlet, 47@0 guineas Bother'e@m, 100 guineas@ Twilight, 3 yrs, 100 guineas Sister to the Lord Mayor, 5 yrs, 91 gulneas@@ @Miss Harewood, 4 yrs, 82 guineas Colt foal, by Sheet Anchor out of Theresa, 77 guineas Pelisse, 49 guineas b m by Belshazzar, dam by Capsicum, 49 guineas Blister, 30 guineas Syren, 3 yrs, 26 guineas. At the sale of the Coursing Stud of t@he late Mr. P. Houghton, of Man- chester, the celebrated greyhound Tyrant fetched £210, Hester £@105, and several others, very good prices. T@HE  Monday the meet was at Stoke- common the deer was turned out at East Burnham Beeches, she would not face the country, and after ringing about close by was taken after being at large an hour and a half. The @ﬁeld was a large one. On Thursday another strong muster at Ditton Marsh the @ﬁrst deer turned out got hurt by being mobbed, and hunted about before the hounds were laid on, consequently she was ran into im- medlately. A second deer was then turned out which a@ﬀorded a good hour and a quarter's run over a sti@@ﬃsh country, namely, to Hock, and on to Epsom common, then to Ashstead‐park and Hedgeley, where the chase ended. On Saturday the deer was un- carted at New Lodge, passe@d Mr. Blane's park and over the forest, crossed and re crossed the Thames, and was taken near  that he appeared on behalf of the  to Animals, to prose- cute the defendant for having most cruelly illtreated word or walk a step. A policeman said he saw the gentleman in a helples@s state at eleven o'clock, apparently supported by a you  interfered, and, as t@he defendant was wholly unintelligible, conveyed@ him to the station@ house. Defendant No doubt of it. The man is right, my lord. The Lord Mayor Was the man you were with your friend ?@-Defendant So much my friend that he wished to rob me of £9 or £10 that's all. But I want to be oﬀ. It won't do for @me to lose £10 @a‐day. I'll give what you please to the poor‐hex. The Lord Mayor You don't appear to be sober now. Have you had any sleep ?-Defendant Sleep ! God bless you I've been asleep till now, and I have not had a drop to- day yet,@ though Christmas is not over yet laughter . The policeman said that he had good reason to think that the gentleman had been robbed by a woman of the town of £3. Defendant Can't help that. Don't know it. Don't doubt it. But I'll be o@ﬀ now. How much tin shall drop@@ @@? The Lord Mayor Did the defendant o@ﬀend or injure any body in his drunkenness?-The Policeman Nobody, my lord. The Lord Mayor Then he is @ﬁned only @ﬁve shillings. Defendant Then I'm o@ﬀ. The Lord Mayor Don't let @me see you on Monday morn- ing a laugh @@@@. Defendant Never, except, perhaps, we have a drop to- gether great  Sir  The case having just concluded, which occupied the attention of the two magistrates, Sir James Duke, on be- holding the lady, hastily quitted his seat, and retreated into  not quite so fortunate. The worthy magistrate, who appeared as if some sudden calamity had overtaken him, thus addressed the lady Now, Miss Newell, what do you want with me ?-Miss Newell with great solemnity Well, Sir Chapman, I've got you and though one gentleman won't listen to me another shall. For four‐and‐twenty years I've pursued this subject, and as this is the last day of the old year@ determined to bring it to a point. Alderman Do, madam, tell me  detain me@?-Miss Newell looking up  then at her gold watch Why, what quarter of an hour? Alderman No pray say @ﬁve minutes. Miss Newell I'd rather you'd split the di@ﬀerence  a horse. The charge arose out of the following circumstances -The defendant and another person agreed to drive their horses from Bath to Newbury, a distance of 53 miles, in four hours and a half. They started from Bath on Wed- nesday the 7th ult., about nine o'clock in the morning, and the defendant arrived at the Halfway‐house, in the parish of Welford, shortly after one o'clock, having driven the poor animal forty‐eight miles in four hours and a quarter. A witness would be able to prove that the conduct of the de- fendant when he passed the turnpike‐gate at Welford was most wantonly cruel. The landlord of the inn would be the next witness, and he would describe the condition of the horse when put into his stable, and that it died within twenty minutes after it arrived from the e@ﬀects of having been over‐driven. In the evening the ani- mal was examined by a veterinary surgeon in the presence of the landlord, and he should be able to prove that the immediate cause of death was the violent exertion it had been compelled to undergo. When the defendant reached Hungerford, he stopped a minute or two to give the horse some sherry. At this place, several persons remarked the condition of the horse, and advised the de- fendant not to proceed, as it was quite evident that the horse could not live to reach Newbury. He, however, per- sisted, and continued towards the Halfway‐house, when the death of the animal compelled him to give up the match. Mr. Thomas then called Robert Bemister, who stated that he keeps the turnpike gate at Hoe Benham, in the parish of Welford, and that on the 7th of the present month @he saw the defendant and another person, about one o'clock, coming from the direction of Hungerford towards the turn- pike gate. The other man was on horseback, and had hold of the reins of another horse, which was har- nessed to a light gig, and was dragging it along, while the defendant was walking by the side of the horse, and @ﬂogging it most violently. When they came to the gate, he particularly remarked the condition of the MORTALITY OF THE METROPOLIS. NUMBER OP DEATHS FROM ALL CAUSES REGISTERED IN THE WEEK ENDING SATURDAY, DEC.@ @24, 1842.  395 Females, 438. Weekly average 1838‐9‐40‐1, Males, 467 Females, 445.  Corn, Pulse, Seeds, and Flour in the port of London, during the week ending on the 31st December. English Wheat 3,723, Barley 7,192, Malt 5,024, Oats 2,815, Beans 979, Peas 677, Tares 8, Linseed 7, and sundry other seeds 87 quarters, Flour 2,947 sacks. Scotch Wheat 50, Barley 3,295, Oats 3,985 quarters. Irish Oats 19,619 quarters. Fo- reign Wheat 1,035, Barley 388, Beans 4,050, Peas 230, Tares 2,049, and sundry other seeds 7 quarters. Flour 1,906 barrels. NEWGATE AND LEADENHALL MARKETS. MEAT.-Our markets, though they did not exhi@bit a very exten- sive supply, were in a very sluggish state, and the quotations were a shade lower. Beef from 3s to 3s @8d, Mutton 3s 4d to 4s 2d, Veal 3s 8d to 4s 2d, and Pork 3s 8d to 4s 6@d, per 81bs by the carcase. POULT@RY.-The supplies of both game and poultry on sale here to day being extensive, the general inquiry was heavy, at the follow- ing somewhat depressed rates -Turkeys 5s to 20s, Geese 4s to 7s, Capons 4s to 10s, Roasting Pigs 4s to 8s, Rabbits 4d to 1s 3d, Hares 2s to 3s 6d, Partridges 1s 3d to 2s, Woodcocks 2s to 3s, Pheasants 2s 6d to 4s, Grouse 2s to 3s, Ptarmigan 1s 8d to 2s 6d, Snipes 1s to 1s 6d, Teal 4d to 1s, Wild Ducks 1s 3d to 2s, Widgeons 8d to 1s 6d, Plovers 6d to 8d, and Pigeons @6d to 10d each, Fowls 4s to 8s, Chickens 2s to 4s, a@nd Ducks 2s to 5s per couple. Fresh Butter 1s 3d to 1s 5d per 1b., Eggs 8s to 10s @per 10@0. WHITECHAPEL. The supply of meat was large, though inquiry for it was slow, at late rates. Beef from 3s 2d to 3s 8d, Mutton 3s 4d to 4s 2d, Veal 3s @8d to 4s 2d, and Pork 3s 6d to 4s 6d per 81b. by the carcase. NEWPORT. We had a large quantity of meat brought forward this morning, the sale for which was slow. Beef from 3s 2d to 3s 10d, Mutton 3s to 4s 2d, Veal 3s 8d to 4s 4d, and Pork 3s 8d to 4s 6d per 81bs by the carcase. BILLINGSGATE. We had a decided improvement in the demand for most kinds of @ﬁsh, and the rates had an upward tendency. Turb@ots sold at from 10s to 24s, Cod@‐ﬁsh 1s @6d to 12s, Haddocks 4d to 1s 2d, Whit- ings 4d to 8d, Mackerel @8d to 1s 2d, Dorys 2s to @8s @6d, Crabs @6d to 2s @6d, and Lobsters 1s 3d to 3s 6d each, Soles 8d to 3s 3d per pair, Smelts 1s 10d to 3s, Fresh Herrings 1s to 2s 4d, and Thames Flounders 1s 2d to 2s 2d per dozen, Salmon 10d to 1s 4d, Crimped Skate @6d to 10d, and Eels @6d to 1s 3d per 1b, Sprats 3s to 4s 3d, and Oysters 16s to 25s per bu@shel. HUNGERFORD. Notwithstanding the supplies of meat and other articles were scanty, the general inquiry was slow, at about late rates. COVENT GARDEN. Owing to the continued mildness of the weather, we had a very large supply of most kinds of vegetables on sale in to day's market, while the demand was heavy, at barely last week's currencies. Fruit was again abundant, and extremely low in price. Potatoes sold hea- vily, at their quotations. Potatoes from 3s to 4s per cwt, Turnips 1s 10d to 2s @3d, Carrots 3s to 5s, Coleworts or Greens 1s 3d to 2s, and Leeks 1s to 1s @6d per dozen bunches, Apples 1s 3d to 3s, Pears 4s to 5s @@6d, Onions 1s @6d to 2s @6d per half sieve, New Oranges and Lemons 8s to 10s, and Walnuts 10d to 1s 4d per 100, Brocoli @6s to 12s, and Celery 13s to 18s, per dozen bunches, Endive 1s @6d to 2s 6d, per score, Savoys 1s to 2s, and Red Cabbages 2s to @8s per dozen heads, Mush@rooms 1s to 1s @8d, and Small Salad 2d to 3d per punnet, Turnip Radishes @8d to 1s per dozen hands, Horseradish @1s 6d to 3s per bundle, Spanish Nuts 2s to 3s@, Barcelona 3s to 3s 2d, and Chestnuts 2s 6d to 3s @6d per peck. HAY MARKETS.  Meadow Hay,Hay,  15s useful ditto, @@@£@@ ﬁne Upland ditto, @£4 5s to £4 10s Clover Hay, £4 to £5 10s Oat Straw, @£2 to £2 2@@s Wheat Straw, £2 3s to £2 4S per load. pply moderate, and trade rather dull, at about stationary prices.  Meadow Hay, £3 5s to £3 15s @@useful ditto £4 to £4 5s @ﬁne Upland ditto, £4 @6s to £4 12@@s Clover Hay, £4 0s to £5 @6s Oat Straw, @£2 1s to £2 3s Wheat Straw, £2 4s to £2 5s per load. A short supply and a steady inquiry, at the above quotations. WHITECHAPEL.-Coarse Meadow Hay, £3 0s to £3 15s useful ditto, £4 0s to £4 4s ﬁne Upland ditto, £4 5s to £4 10s Clover Hay, £4 5s to £5 15@@s Oat Straw, £1 18s to £2 2s Wheat Straw, £2 2s to £2 4s per load. Both Hay and Straw met a slow inquiry, will out material alteration in @ﬁgure. HIDE MARKET. RAW RIDES.@-Best Steers and Heifers,  to 6s 5d Middling Hides, 5s 4d to 5s 10d inferior ditto, 4s 8d to 5s 2d, at per stone of  Calf, 8s 0d to 9s 0d Long- woolled Sheep, 2s 10d to 4s 4d Short ditto, 2s 2d to 3s 0d at  sk@@in. BREAD. The prices of Wheaen Bread in the metropolis are from 7d to 7½d of Household, 5d to @@@6½d, per 4‐1b  OF THE LIVERPOOL COTTON MARKET FOR THE W@EEK ENDING FRIDAY, DEC. 30. The trade purchased rather extensively of Cotton during the past week the demand was freely met, and the lower qualities of American of the gig horse, which appeared completely exhausted, and hardly able to put one leg before the other. Witness fully ex- pected that if the defendant had stopped to pay the toll, the horse would have dropped down and died. They passed through the gate, and, as far as the witness coul@d see, the defendant continued to @ﬂog the poor animal most unmerci- fully. It was about ten minutes past one o'clock when they passed witness. The Halfway‐house is about a quarter of a mile further on. Robert Atlee, the landlord of the Halfway‐house proved that the horse died in his stable within a short time after the defendant arrived, in consequence, in the opinion of witness, of having been over‐driven. This was also the opinion of the veterinary surgeon. The defendant, who appeared to treat the matter with great indi@ﬀerence, did not deny that he had driven the horse the distance in the period of time stated but said that the death of the horse did not preceed from over‐ex- ertion, but because it had been fed shortly before starting, and had been allowed to take some cold water at Marl- borough. The magistrates having consulted together, the Chair- man told the defendant that the magistrates were unani- mous in convicting him of the o@ﬀence charged, and that he  pay a penalty of £5 6s. 6d., costs included or, in  of payment, be imprisoned for two months, with  meeting of this branch of the Metroplitan Asso- ciation was held on Friday evening at the Rosemary Branch, Southampton‐street, Camberwell, for the purpose of orga- nising the district for the collection of the Great League Fund. Mr. Lyon, the honorary secretary, who did not arrive until near nine o'clock, stated, in explanation of his absence, that he had been detained at a meeting at the Central‐o@@ﬃce, West Strand, and he was happy to inform them that Mr. Paulton, from Manchester, had addressed that meeting, and recommended a line of operation for the bet- ter success of the objects they had in view, which had been unanimously adopted, and a resolution passed to carry it out. Mr. Lyon then proceeded to explain the measure which had been decided upon after which he stated that he was now prepared to issue subscription cards for amounts vary- ing from 1s. to £5, so as to suit all classes of subscribers, and to receive the names of such gentlemen as wished to co‐operate with the committee sitting at the British Hotel, Cockspur- street. Upon the subject of registration of members on the roll of the League, he had to report that he had put in circulation one hundred sheets, to which 2,000 signatures had already been a@@ﬃxed, and a registration fee of from one penny to a shilling received from each party, making in the aggregate £20 applause , which sum he had no doubt would be considerably increased before the close of the registration. As that was the last meeting for the year 1842, he would state that he had funds to commence the next year's campaign. The receipts for the year, including the amount realised by two soirées, were £85, of which, after all disbursements, he had a balance in hand ap- plause . Several gentlemen then addressed the meeting,  Chairman of the association, Goulston, W. Clarke, J. Smith, F. Ferran@d, J. Bone, J. Poulten, J. A. Lyon, @@c. The meeti@ng then separated.  man of the name of Cornelius Brosnanan, was last week committed by J. Drummond, Esq., the stipendiary magistrate of this town, to the county gaol, charged with a murder com- mitted twenty years ago on a man named Edmond M@'Sweeney. The prisoner was arrested by one of the police@@@@@@@ stationed in  of this day se'nulght, which we also repeat for other descriptions, though rather higher prices were obtained for the better kinds. The market closed some what quietly to‐day. The transactions were on a large scale, 36,050 bales having met with purchasers 200 American and 100 Surat were bought by exporters, and 6,500 American were taken on speculat@ion. 4,@620 American and 20 Maranham were forwarded into the interior, unsold, this month. COTTON MARKET, DEC. 31. The sales to‐day were rather limited, not more than 3,000 @bales having met with buyers. Prices were perfectly steady, and the market closed quietly. CORN MARKET, DEC. 30. We have had fair imports of Oats and Oatmeal from Ireland, but the arrivals of other articles thence or coastwise have been very light since Tuesday, and the foreign supplies were also on a limited scale. Having a very thin attendance of buyers at market this morning, the Wheat trade continued dull, and the transactions in that de- scription of grain were extremely few, still prices were in all in- stances steadily maintained. English and Irish Flour on a @ﬂat inquiry were rather cheaper, but foreign sorts were unaltered in value. Oats were in moderate request, on terms nearly equal to those last quoted, and Oatmeal was @ﬁrm. Prime Barley and Malt brought full prices, other qualities were unsaleable, and Beans and Peas were neglected. IRISH PROVISION MARKET, DEC. 30. The fresh arrivals of Butter from Ireland since Saturday last have amonnted to 4,788 @ﬁrkins. Our Butter market has been rather brisk this week. Several wholesale dealers from the country, anti- cipating a further advance from the lightness of the stocks, have been extensive buyers, and the home con@sumption trade altogether has had a good tone. Fair to @ﬁne descriptions were held for an ad- vance of 2s to 3s per cwt. on previous rates, but we have no im- prove@ment to notice in inferior sorts, owing to the import from Canada having been considerable of late, and comprised of various qualities, which were mostly o@ﬀered on low terms. Cork pickled seconds were in demand for export, and is to 2s per cwt. dearer. Bacon moved oﬀ slowly. Irish keg Lard was scarce, and American was in good request, at 44s to 45s per cwt. duty paid. Barrelled Provisions were taken to a moderate extent for sh@ips' stores, and exporters purchased 60 barrels of Irish and 150 barrels of American Beef and Pork. Butter Belfast, new, 76s to 78s Ballymony, 74s to 78s  @@68s to 72@@s Carlow, new, 64s to 78s Cork idle tales, and, in answer to his request to be put in pos- session of the treasure, required the usual infallible' crossing of the hand with money, and as the riches to be ob- tained were great, so the amount demanded was high, being no less than £100. But as riches were not of easy attain- ment, and such an opportunity of acquiring them seldom occurs the weak‐minded fellow determined to possess the treasure, and gathered all his money, which amounted to £25, as the price for the information, but the sybil would not sell him the secret for this sum, and he accordingly bor- rowed of his neighbours £75, to make up the amount de- manded. The gypsy having received the hundred sove- reigns, wrapped them in a piece of brown paper, and going with the man up stairs, they both knelt down, and, after pretending to utter some charms upon them, she returned to him a brown parcel, to @be put in a box, which was not to be opened for a week, when there was to be £150. The tale scarcely needs to be further told on opening the parcel there were one hundred and @ﬁfty pieces of tin ! When the fraud was discovered the impostor had decamped, but she has been traced to the neighbourhood of Manchester. A reward of £10 is o@ﬀered for her apprehension.-Preston Chronicle.  Satur- day night, about half‐past seven o'clock, an accident occurred to the Phoenix Dover Coach, which had just arrived from Dover, at the Bricklayer's Arms, in the Old Kent‐road. The coachman had got down from the box, as customary, giving t@he horses in charge to a man at their heads. Several of the passengers also got down, leaving three others, two gentlemen and a boy, on the r@oof. In a few minutes the leaders were startled by the sudden smack- ing of a carter's whip, and notwithstanding all the e@ﬀorts of the man to stop them, set o@ﬀ at full gallop, through the gate in the New Kent‐road, and proceeded at a tremendous pace, with the reins dragging at their heels, towards West- minster‐bridge. The passengers on the outside were in the greatest terror, and the shouts of the people in their endea- vours to stop the horses but increased the animals' speed. They passed the Elephant and Castle without coming in contact with any of the numerous omnibuses plying there, and pursued their career along the St. George's‐road, to the Marsh‐gate, in the Westminster‐road, through which they dashed without the least damage. By the time the horses reached the foot of Westminster‐bridge they began to slacken their speed, and the two gentlemen clambered over the roof of the coach and descended behind, but the boy was afraid to attempt it. Just as the horses reached the centre of the bridge a boy with a truck, another branch Dover coach, and a brewer's dray, were coming in an opposite direction, and there being no room for them to pass, they all came with fearful violence against the dray, and by the collision the coach was overturned and the lad was thrown violently on to the pavement, and miraculously escaped unhurt. One of the leaders was killed on the spot and the forepart of the coach was smashed to pieces. T@he lad draw- ing the truck fortunately escaped with only a few bruises. The damage done to the coach is very considerable.  Friday last this town and neighbourhood were visited with a most terri@ﬁc thunder storm, which did much damage in many places. Mr. Ellis, of @@Wardhouse, has su@ﬀered to a consider@able extent his house was struck with the electric @ﬂuid, which rent the gables almost every pane of glass in the windows were smashed, and much damage was done to the furniture. A servant girl, who had a knife in her hand, which attracted the lightning, was severely injured and another servant girl is also greatly burnt. The children and nursery‐maid were all in the nursery, seated round the @ﬁre, aed the entire room with the exception of the part they were in , was destroyed by the lightning. All the china, delph, and glass are destroye@d and the house, with the exception of a parlour and bedroom over it, is past repairing. The pendulum of the clock was twisted like a screw. Never had any family a more miracu- Ious escape from so awful a visitation. The loss of property to Mr. Ellis exceeds £200. As far as we can learn, there @has been no loss of human life, but the loss of cattle and other property throughout the country is considerable.-Bally- shannon Herald. DIED. December 31, aged 37, S@usan, the beloved wife of P. Baker Esq. and daughter of J. Anstice, Esq., of Axmi@nster, after a Very severe and lingering illness, which she bore with t@he most exe@mplary and christian resignation. On the 30thult., at his house, Tottenham green,  Bayes. In Cambridge‐street, Co@@nnaug@ht‐square, On the  youngest daughter of John Williams, Esq., late of her Majesty'S Receipt of Exchequer. On the 24th ult., at St. Michael's, near Liverpool, Abigail, the wife of David Dockray. On the 27th ult. Thomas Einns, of Mount Vernon street, Liver- verpool, a member of the Society of Friends. HIGH WATER AT LONDON‐BRIDGE THIS DAY. Morning.... 59 min. past 2@. Afternoon 18 min. past 3.  by MR. FOSTER.-The GREAT  GOODS, announced to take place by  at the corner of Fleet and Farringdon‐streets, being the entire STOCK of the largest wholesale trading @@ﬁrms in the City. Mr. FOSTER is instructed to SELL the whole of these GOODS to retail customers, having represented to the proprietor@ the di@@ﬃculty of e@ﬀecting an e@@ﬃcient sale at his Auction Rooms, where the nobility and per one calculated to purchase expensi@ve linen@s and curiously @ﬁne d@amask cloths, @@c., would not attend. As these goods have been accumulating some   the articles are of a superior fabric to those of the present day since steam has so completely superseded hand‐loom weaving . In answer to the numerous orders for the silks and fancy goods advertised that part of the stock is entirely cleared out, and in ord@@er that the remain@ing portion of the stock, consisting of Carpets, Linens, @c., may be disposed of quickly the premises being let , 2s. in the pound will be allowed extra o@ﬀ all purchases that exceed ten pounds. The sale no@w consists principally of linens of the @ﬁnest character, and the reduction is guaranteed to the following extent, as will be seen on inspection -580 pieces of Bennett's @ﬁnest Coleraine nen, of the original s. d. value of 1s. 9d. and 2s. per yard, will be sold all at 25 yards for 25 0 160 pi@eces of the @ﬁnest numbers, suitable for the wear of the nobility or persons wishing @ﬁnest linens, 26 yards for . . 42 0 About 1,400 pieces of Knox's stout linens, that were bought from him direct at 16½d. per yard, average, will be reduced to 26 yards for Several boxes of yard wide curiously @ﬁne soft Irishes izi- nally marked 3s. 9d. per yard, are further reduced 25 yards for 50 The sheetings and table linens are all of the @ﬁnest description, the coarser qualities having been sold to the trade. The prices will be for line@n she@etings, @ﬁne quality, three yards wide, the pair, 10s. 6d. and tho@se of the very best description, full bleached, and of the original value of 9s. 6d. to 6s per yard, will be reduced to 20s. the pair. The following is a list of table linens, as per book, rendered to Mr. Foster -1,380 table cloths, all two yards square, @ﬁnest damask, each 3s. 6d., or by the  dozen of breakfast cloths, 1½ yards square, all each 1s. 2d., or by the  superb damask cloths, full three yards lo@ng, valued as per book at 2@5s. each, will be sold,  160, full three yards long, inferior damasks, will be sold, at, each .  3 6 Besides about £3@,000 worth of the most curious and expensive table cloths and napkins, ma@ny with coronet, landscapes, and emblema- tical designs, varying from 3 to 8 yards long, m@an@y of the orig@inal value of 10 guineas each, will be sold, being 6 yards long, for 35s, and 40s. 160 dozen of na@pkins are reduced from 30s. to 8s. 6d. the dezen, 
 be less proud, less ambitious, less greedy of wealth @? Will HAWKER, when he becomes a Bishop, lay down his @ﬂippancy, HILL his vulgarity, or  coach ? The very names of these men are insulting to a serious dignity. On the other hand, will they practise half so well the noble maxim which com‐ mands them to tolerate @others as they themselves are tolerated ? Will the various peaceable sects, who are@ not less worthy than the Methodists because they@ are less noisy and vulgar,@ be allowed, as@ the Methodists are now, to worship God as they please ? Will no e@ﬀorts be made, when the Godly have obtained a little ungodly interest, to interfere with private opinions under the old Popish system of proselytis@m ? Will not conversion be introduced, in the true fatherly way, by a little loving correction@ or persecution softly in‐ sinuated upon us, under the name of a sweet struggle with lost sheep ? The Church tolerates every species@ of belief but @the Methodists @ﬂatly declare that they regard di@ﬀerence of opinion as a crime and we all know to wh@@@at punishments criminals are liable. The Papists wanted no better syllogism, when they @ﬁlled Europe with human sacri@ﬁces and the essence of Me‐ thodism is but a distillation from Popery@@ it is Popery deprived of it's brilliance, it's perfumes, and it's vo‐ latility a@@ vial of wrat@@hondriac in it's vapour and caustic to it's last dregs. No, no we have seen the prejudices and the passions which render the Methodists unchristian and un@ﬁt for church dominion@@@ every@ body, who knows them intimately, knows that they are not free from a single world@y fault of which they accuse others, and that they want nothing but the chair at which @they @are aiming, to display all the pride a@nd corruption of the worst establishments, to‐ gether with all the@ bigotry, the intolerance, and the hatred of re@ﬁnement, which characterise a zeal that rejects reason@@@. Such men would never succeed against the Establish‐ ment, provided the Chu@rch were at once just to itself and to others. It is with Church as with@ State there is never any decided and alarming rebellion against either, without some corruption to favour the result. The Establishment possesses so many worldly advan‐ tages, that as long as it uses them without scandal,@ it is almost impossible to overturn it but when its mem‐ bers become too worldly minded, these very advantages are turned against them, and superstition assumes an air of patriotic hazard in opposing the in@ﬂuence of the Court and the Crown. At such a time the noisiest and most intolerant sect, which is always the most power‐ ful, will be ready for invasion, and @with gravity to c@heat the people and promises to secure them, may bind us all in chains before we perceive that we have lost our opportunity of freedom. The means@ of e@ﬀectual resistance are@ therefore very evident self‐ reform will prevent revolution, and conciliation will unmask t@hose traitors who are aiming at rule instead @of reformation. 1. The @ﬁrst care, in attempting to prevent fanaticism, must be not to persecute. This is a maxim essentially necessary to sound policy and sound Christianity for the one@ teaches us not to injure our cause by losing our temper and character, and the other commands us to do as we would be done by. Let us leave into‐ lerance to those, whose faith will not bear the recom‐ mendation of a perfect mercy, a@nd who devote us to everlasting torments for saying@@ @We di@ﬀer with you. 2. The Methodists accuse the Churc@h Preachers of not @being su@@ﬃciently earnest in the cause of faith but they are too apt to attribute this laxity to mere worldliness, whereas it arises in great measure from the faith itself, or to speak more properly, from the numerous articles which compose the professed doc‐ trines of the Establishment. The great di@ﬀusion of learning and inquiry has dissipated most of those bar‐ barisms which were introduced into the Christian reli‐ gion by the Popish Casuists and Councils, t@hat succeed‐ ed the reign of  which were after‐ wards preserved by  two violent men,@ who spurned at Papacy chie@ﬂy because it inter‐ fered with their worldly views and ambition. Neither of these men were Christians, for they had an utter want of charity, and while they derided the POPE'S infallibility,@@ vehemently and indeed ferociously insisted upon their own. The Church of England calls itself Lutheran, the Evangelical Preachers say it is or ought to be Cal‐ vinistic but in point of fact, it is neither. LUTHER at all times held the doctrine of the Trinity indispens‐ ably necessary, and CALVIN in addition to that doctrine @insisted upon the belief of predestination but if you take one Clergyman of the Established Church with another, nine out of ten, who have exami@ned the subject, not only begin to think the peculiar text which establishes the Trinity a bible interpolation, but certainly hold predestination as a mystery too Cal‐ vinistic to be insisted on. Why not, therefore, ceasese to insist upon every mystery that is incapable of moral analysis or con@ﬁrmation, or upon which the truth of the Christian religion does not absolutely rest ? The sole end of religion is the love of God and of one's neighbour this comprehends all virtue, and there is no mystery in it whatever. If those who believed most, knew and practised most, the most credulous men would be the wisest and bestst but every body knows the contrary. The love of mystery is the beginning of madness. The present Clergy of the Established Church were born in an age of inquiry, and they have obtained the great end of inquiry, a dislike of dogma‐ tism and a love @of plain truth. The consequence is, that the Methodists have taken up the neglected mys‐ teries, and cast them in their teeth. Rubbish is con‐ tinually @falling away from the Church, the inhabitants have not the vigour to remove it, and it is at last converted into a mound of assault @against them. -All this might be done away by one single act of a Convocation, an act which some of the greatest orna‐ ments of the Church have endeavoured to obtain, and for want of which those who mig@ht have been as great, have seceded from the Establishment. This is a dis‐ pensation with the subscription to the Thirty-nine Articles. By such a measure, which would still leave the more vigorous believers in their own opinions while it declared those opinions not requisite to salva‐ tion, the most learned and liberal of the Dissenters, the Unitarians and the Universalists, would be added to the Establishment, the consciences of hundreds of Clergymen who originally subscribed without thinking would be rendered happy, and the Methodists would at once be bereft of their pretences to what is called orthodoxy and reduced to their proper level in s
 even decent? In truth, if they do not reform it altogether, they will act in open de@ﬁance of t@he duties they have undertaken to ful@ﬁl,-duties, the violation of which will subject them not only to the censure of their fellow-creatures, but to the awful displeasure of their o@ﬀended Maker.@@@@ EAST INDIA HOUSE.@@@@ On Wednesday a Quarterly General Court was held, when the dividend on the Capital Stock of the Company, from the 5th July last to the 5th January next, was de- clared to be 5 1 -4 per cent. NAVAL VIGILANCE! After the dividend had been declared, and the Chair- man had stated the tranquil state in which the last ac- counts left India@@@,  called the attention of the Court to the extraordinary ascendancy of the enemy's cruizers in the Indian Seas, and the dreadful ravages which they had been permitted to commit upon British property, and the still greater dishonour which they had brought upon the country. Who could believe that, with a maritime force greater than had been usually kept in@ those seas, the trade of them had been so co@mpletely un- protected, that the Calcutta Insurance Companies alone, had paid losses to the amount of more than two@ millions of money within the last seven or eight years, and that in the month of September and October only, of the year 1807, their losses had been upwards of 2@90,000l. that these, as well as numerous other captures, had been ef- fected by two French frigates, and principally by the @Revennant privateer, of 16 guns, which latter bad scoured those seas for three months together, and in fact blockaded the Bay of Bengal, although a great maritime force, w@ith an Admira@s @ﬂag, and several pendants @ﬂying, were then lying within 300 miles of this scene of depredation@!@! He understood it to be stated in a Memorial fro@m whic@h he had gathered these facts from the Calcutta Merchants to the Board of Admiralty, t@hat although the destinatio@n of these frigates and of this privateer was k@nown to the station at Madras, in September, yet in the December following, not a vessel had been sent for the protection of the Bay, till at length the Imperial Government of India had been compelled to do what America had pretended to do on account of the confederated maritime strength of the world, @@namely, lay an embargo on its shipping, in order to keep them from the devouring jaws of this ter- rible privateer of 16 guns, which had had, it was said, the no less extraordinary good luck to preserve every one of its prizes from recapture, though it had to send them through a known track of 3000 miles to the Isles of Mauritius and Bourbon. Mr. Jackson added, that the Madras Government, with that feeling which became it for our fellow-subjects of India labouring under the hor- rors of famine, has advertised great encouragement to ships bringing corn for their relief in consequence of which, the shipping interest had directed its attention to this object, when shocking as it should seem, if the Me- morial spoke truth, @no one ship t@hat the Memorialists knew of had been sent out to protect these vessels, the consequence of which was, that a considerable part of the provisions thus intended to save our subjects from death, had been raptured by the enemy. Mr. Jackson observ- ed, that a marine could only be created through the medium of commerce, or through that of ships of war our great enemy not having the former means in his power, was known, though silently, and, perhaps slowly, but surely, to be creating a body of most adventurous, hardy and skilful sailors through the latter @medium, the whole of which @he would call to hi@s service w@henever the a@ﬀairs of the Continent should admit of his directing his energies to his marine. Mr. Jackson said, he would not suppose it possible, but that the Directors had made the strongest representations in the proper quarter, if not, @he adjured them to do so without a moment further loss of time he must say, that if they had found th@e forms of o@ﬀice in their way at the Admiralty, they ought to have applied to the Minister, who was answerable for ev@ery department and failing there, they ought to have addressed themselves to the House of Commons, and laid their case before the country. Mr. Jackson said, he did not prete@nd or could say where@@ the fault lay if with the Commander, the Board of Admiralty that wanted @nerve enough to recal such a man ought to be dismissed by the Minister, and changed@ for men of more comprehensive faculties and more vigorous exertions. If the Minister wanted courage to do this, he was not the Minister@ for such a country i@n such times. Mr. Jackson, after remarking on the a@ﬀlict- ing and disgraceful accounts of a similar ascendancy in the West Indies, and of the repeatedly revictualling and rein- forcing of Martinique and Guadalne, the importance of the capture of which islands had ever been admitted to be of the utmost consequence, concluded with expressing his hopes, that the Directors would feel this subject as it ought to be felt, and act upon that feeling. The CHAIRMAN Mr. Percy said, that it had not escaped their attention, that the depredations had been most scandalous, arising, as they apprehended, from ne- glect somewhere that the Commander had been recalled some months past, and that he trusted @precautions would be taken to prevent the recurrence of the evil so justly complained of@@@@@. Mr. Rock, Mr. Jackson, and other Proprietors, refer- ring to the late gift of 1000l. to the Spanish Patriots, protested against the illegality of@ the Directors giving away the funds of the Company, however meritorious the object, without the consent of their Constituents. @@The Court then adjourned@. L@AW.@@@ COURT OF KING'S BENCH. @Wednes@day,  The plainti@ﬀ and defendant in this case are both mer- chants resident in Liverpool, and the action was brought to recover a  in damages for a criminal connec- tion with the  P@ARKE, for the plainti@ﬀ, stated the case as below detailed in evidence, and accompanied t@he statement with the usual observations on the magnitude of the injury sustaincy the Plainti@ﬀ. The defendant he said was well alile to pay any damages which the Jury might award, as he h@ad come into the possession of a large for- tune and he trusted the Jury would think @this was a case of exemplary damage@s inasmuch as the consequences of the conduct of the defendant had caused@ a de- rangement of mind in the plainti@ﬀ. The parties lived upon terms of intimacy and friendship, and it was from the opportunity a@ﬀorded by this intimacy, that the defendant found meats to seduce the wife of his friend. The plainti@ﬀ was married in the year 1798, and resided at the village of Billingden, about a mile from Liverpool. He went into the town most days at ten in the morning, and did not return until four to dinner. In the interval between those hours it would be proved, that the defen- dant was constant i@n his visits to Mrs. Parr. But these were not the only visits he paid, for the plainti@ﬀ being a very jovial man, had the defendant constantly dining with him. Another circumstance of aggravation in the conduct of the defendant was, that he was himself a married man, and had children he trusted that the Jury would think these circumstances of aggravation merited a se- verer visitation than@ ordinarily was called for. With respect, however, to the mental derangement of t
 TO CORRESPONDENTS. We cannot u undertake to advise L. or to interfere in the case of H. N. Correspondents should keep copies of their contributions. @We do not answer for their return, in case of non‐inser- tion. POSTSCRIPT. LONDON, Saturday Morning, Sept. 13, 1845. The ' Gazette' of last night contains the appoint- ment of the Duke of Leinster, the Earl of Kenmare, the Earl of @Rosse, the Right Hon. D. R. Pigot, and the Right Hon. Sir Thomas Fremantle, Bart., to be Visitors of Maynooth College. The ' Gazette ' also contains a Treasury warrant altering the rates of postage between this country and Hanover, and of the Duchy of Brunswick. Henceforward all  Social Institution in John street, Tottenham‐court road, is defunct, like its late prototype in the Blackfriars road. The building changed hands last week. Its members and @ﬁnances have been slowly dwindling down till they .are considerably in debt. The building, which is very commodious, is now turned into a Mechanics' Institution. It may also be men- tioned that the Socialists about six years since expended about .30,000l. in buying land and building a hall in Hampshire. Harmony Hall the place w@@@as called, and the Owenite principles were there carried out to the fullest extent this has failed likewise, and in a few weeks' time all will come under the hammer to pay the loans granted at the commencement of the undertaking. THE  seems the vessels of the Experimental Squadron are dreadful slow coaches. Some of them only go eight miles an hour. We propose that their names be altered to suit their intuitive pow@ers of slowness, for it looks like mockery to call a vessel the  according to the option of the sender,-the prepayment, however, @@to include the postage throughout, British and foreign. The price of a letter, not exceeding half an ounce in weight, to be 6d. British -beyond that weight a proportional rate is established. Newspapers are to be charged one penny. The latter regulation will be found to be a great boon to the receivers in Hanover or Brunswick, the old charge having been half a Prussian dollar, or 1s. 6d. British. Transmitted overland, through Holland, Belgium, or France@ the rate of postage is not altered. The o@@ﬃcial declaration of the state of the poll at the Southwark election was made yesterday by the High Baili@ﬀ, when Sir W. Molesworth was declared duly elected. Sir William returned thanks in the same manly, honest strain, that has characterised all his addresses to his present constituents. The other candidates also addressed the electors. The Guardians of the Greenwich Poor‐Law Union have resolved to send a deputation to the Poor‐Law Commissioners, to urge on them the inexpediency of forming an asylum in that district and to request them to rescind their order relative to Greenwich. The ' Nottingham Journal' of yesterday states that the hosiery and lace trades are slowly though almost imperceptibly declining. A strike for an advance of wages of the opera- tive cotton spinners employed in about twelve or @ﬁfteen factories in Glasgow and the neighbour- hood, took place on Tuesday last. The demands of the workmen, requiring an advance of from ten to @ﬁfteen per cent., according to the size of the wheels, were eventually agreed to by the masters. The ' Caledonian Mercury states that Lord Panmure was seized with serious indisposition last week, while at his shooting quarters near the Grampians. Accounts from Ireland represent the disease in the potato crop as prevalent there as in this country@. The inauguration of the statue of Jean Bart, the famous sea captain in the time of Louis XIV, took place at Dunkirk, his native town, on Sunday last, with great ceremony and splendour. The statue, which is of bronze and of colossal size, is erected in the great square of the town. A Madrid paper, the ' Heraldo, ' says that the King of Prussia, during the last diplomatic con- ference that took place at Stolzenfels, recommended the recognition of Queen Isabella by the Northern Powers. It is said that the King is desirous of establishing commercial relations between Spain and the Zollverein. The ' Hamburg Gazette' says that the province of Konigsberg is greatly alarmed at the high pro- tective duties contemplated by the Zollverein. The adoption of such duties would be a death‐blow to that province, which is depending solely on agri- culture. The Paci@ﬁc Steam Company has just concluded a contract with the British Government between Valparaiso and Panama. From the latter place they will cross the isthmus to Chagres, and then be brought to this country by the West India Royal Mail Steam Company's vessels to South- ampton. Saturday Night. By the arrival of a vessel at Falmouth from Buenos Ayres, with papers from the River Plate to the 21st of June, we learn that a modi@ﬁcation of the Brazilian Cabinet took place on the 26th of May, which it is hoped will prove the forerunner of a more cordial understanding between the .Ar- gentine and the Imperial Governments than that which has for some time existed. A Privy Council was held to‐day at Osborne house, in the Isle of Wight. The members of the Cabinet who attended it left town at half‐past eight this morning by a special train on the South Wes- tern Railway.  ' Medical Times ' states that Mr Wakley the Coroner for Middlesex, has had an attack of apoplexy, accompanied by paralysis, during his sojourn in the Isle of  Tor- toise, that the Jackal be changed into the Snail, and that the slowest of the lot be appropriately called the Omnibus, or the Chancery Suit. The Monkey steamer might take the name of Prince Joinville, out of compliment to his pamphlet for invading England, for we must say we never knew anything in nautical matters slower than that.-' Punch. '  accounts from the country as well as from the continent speak of a disease by which the potatoes are generally a@ﬀected. In many of the poorer districts of the metropolis potatoes were sold at 2d. for 4lb. and 6lb. last Saturday. Externally the disease indicates itself by a moss or fungus, producing a decomposition of the farinaceous interior. In the Isle of Wight, where the disease has occurred in its most virulent form, it was most prevalent in those crops which had been planted on wheat land, which had been manured with guano. The use of the diseased potatoes should be avoided. We perceive that Mr Herapath has addressed a letter to the Editor of the ' Bristol Mercury ' on the subject, in which, after describing the nature of the disease, he says that the longer the crop remains in the land the greater the injury will be. He concludes by the recommendation of the following process for preserving the nutritive part of the potato - After washing the roots, let them be rasped @ﬁne and thrown into a large tub or other vessel pour a considerable quantity of water, and well agitate and rub the pulp with the hands all the starch or fecula will, from its great weight, fall to the bottom, while the skin and @ﬁbrous matter will be carried away by the water wash the starch with one or two more waters, allowing it to fall after each washing spread it upon cloths in a warm room to dry-in this way about 20 or 21 lbs. will be obtained from every 100 lbs. of potatoes, and it contains as much nourishment as the original roots it will keep any length of time, and might be used with @ﬂour to make bread, pies, puddings, c., as well as farinaceous spoon meat. This is much better than throw- ing away the diseased roots, and will furnish food for tens of thousands who might otherwise want it.  Satur- day afternoon a number of scienti@ﬁc and literary gentle- men witnessed the casting of seventeen tons of metal at the atelier of Mr Wyatt, Dudley grove, Paddington. The bronze casting was for the fore part of the colossal horse intended for the Wellington statue at the west end. The hinder part has already been cast, and is now in progress of being @ﬁnished. The immense body of metal was occasionally seen through the iron door of a huge furnace it was intensely brilliant and perfectly @ﬂuid. A deep run led from the door of the furnace, and conveyed the liquid metal to a large pit wherein the model was deposited. At a given signal an aperture in the front of the furnace was opened, and a hollow noise, like that from a volcano, was heard. The metal then, in a complete state of fusion, glided forth like a stream of lava, hissing and spitting as it went along to the model pit. A thick whitish smoke, like that from burning arsenic, and nearly as mephitic, entirely @ﬁlled the atelier to the roof, making it dark-a darkness which might be felt below-while the red burning river of metal conti- nued to send forth an almost insupportable heat. In @bout half an hour the whole seventeen tons had run into the pit in a continuous even @ﬂow, giving indication that all was right below. It will take @ﬁve weeks before the mass can be su@@ﬃciently @ﬁxed and cool-a period of considerable excitement and suspense to the artist. It was curious that the two principal workmen employed on the occasion are Frenchmen, chosen by Mr Wyatt for their knowledge in bronze casting. They are two hearty fel- lows, and stirred up the liquid metal with perfect non- chalance, apparently heedless about its having originally been cannon taken from the armies of their country, in order to form a statue of Wellington.  National Gallery closed for the annual vacation on Thursday, and will not re‐open for public inspection till the 27th of October.  of the @ﬁnest lions ever imported into this country have arrived within the last few days, on board the ship John Bartlett, Captain Bartlett. It is very rarely that adult lions are imported, and these are truly splendid animals. They were landed on Thursday in St Katharine's Docks, and conveyed to the Royal Surrey Zoological Gardens. These are the second pair of lions deposited in the gardens within the last few weeks, making seven full‐grown lions now in this collection. THE @-It has been re- solved to erect, by public subscription, a monument in Westminster Abbey to the memory of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton. It is intended to limit the subscription to 2l. 2s., that all who have admired the indefatigable zeal of this great man, in his e@ﬀorts to extinguish the slave trade, may have an opportunity of expressing their respect to his memory. Foremost amongst those who have ex- pressed their concurrence in the object are, the Bishop @of London and six other prelates, Lord John Russell, Lord Ashley, the Duke of Sutherland, the Marquises of Chol- mondeley and Breadalbane, the Earls of Jermyn and Chichester the late Earl Grey was also a subscriber.  herring @ﬁshery is now in full activity on the Northum- berland coast. Many boats from Newbiggin, Cresswell, Blyth, and other places in Northumberland, are stationed at Cullercoats, from whence nearly one hundred boats sail every evening. Even at Berwick the e@ﬀect of rail- ways is felt, parties being every morning on the sands buying, to send to Leeds, Manchester, Birmingham, and London and one morning recently no less than @ﬁve tons of herrings were dispatched by railway to those places.  the Poor‐Law Act of last year the Commissioners have power to order parishes and unions, in the following places exclusive of Middlesex and the City of London , to be formed into districts, for the purpose of providing and managing asy- lums for the temporary relief and setting to work of des- titute houseless poor, who are not charged with any o@ﬀence, and who may apply for relief, or become charge- able to the poor rates -Liverpool, Manchester, Bristol, Leeds, and Birmingham. A constable seeing a poor crea- ture wandering about may take him to an asylum, where lodging and food are to be provided.  Glasgow paper says the number who passed through that city during last week cannot have been less than 15,000. The average rate of wages is 1s. 8d. per day for women, and 2s. for able‐bodied men.  Sunday, in accord- ance with a pastoral letter from the ecclesiastical authori- ties of the diocese of London, addressed to the clergy, sermons were preached in several churches of the metro- polis on behalf of the su@ﬀerers from the recent @ﬁres at Quebec in May and June.  Archaeologi- cal Association met at Winchester on Tuesday. The Marquis of Northampton was in the chair, and a consi- derable number of noblemen, clergymen, and gentlemen were present. The Marquis of Northampton opened the proceedings. The Dean of Westminster read a very elo- quent and ably drawn up paper on the general objects of the institution. The proceedings of the week were of great local interest.  whole of the @ﬂeet forming the Experimental Squadron is now lying in the harbour of the Cove of Cork, where its presence excites the greatest interest. It is stated that during the cruise Rear‐Admiral Parker was seriously unwell, being for upwards of a fortnight con@ﬁned to his cabin by illness.  copy of the @ﬁrst complete edition of the English bible, printed by Myles Cloverdale, bearing the date 1535, was accidentally discovered, a few days since, in the false bottom of an old oak chest, at Holkham hall, Norfolk, the seat of the Earl of Leicester. There are numerous imperfect copies of this edition of the Holy Scriptures in existence, two being deposited in the Library of the British Museum, one in the Bodleian Library, one in the Cambridge Uni- versity Library-in fact, many of our great libraries and public institutions, and many private collections, possess imperfect copies, but the volume just discovered is in every respect perfect. The noble proprietor of Holkham has had the book appropriately bound, and enclosed in an oaken box, and it now graces the shelves of his mag- ni@ﬁcent library.  the annual meeting of the governors, held on Wednesday last, the Right Hon. Lord Lyttelton was unanimously elected Principal of the college. The Rev. Dr. Warne- ford has signi@ﬁed his intention of placing in the hands of the Rev. Chancellor Law, the Rev. Vaughan Thomas, and William Sands Cox, Esq., the muni@ﬁcent sum of 500l., to a@ﬀord facilities to the institution of preliminary education especially available to the sons of the clergy and of the medical profession. A  Hunton, of Carlisle, who died in 1840, had, in the year 1822, while carrying on business as a manufacturer, been obliged, under the pressure of the times, to make a composition with his creditors, paying them seven shillings in the pound. He again commenced business, and by assiduous industry was enabled to realise a considerable sum. He died in 1840, and by his will directed that the balance of their accounts should be paid to the whole of his credi- tors. This was immediately done by his widow, and on her death, in 1844, it was found that the @ﬁrst provision in her will was for payment of interest upon those balances from 1822 to the time of death. These pay- ments have just been made, amounting to a sum nearly equal to the balances. An instance of conduct so honour able deserves at least to be recorded.-' Cumberland Pacquet.'  letter from Copenhagen, of the 24th ult., gives us the follow@ing case, showing the laws of Denmark with regard to per- sons who seduce innocent girls under promises of mar- riage, which they afterwards refuse to perform -In January last M. Laurent Mikkelsen, a blacksmith, and Mademoiselle Oline Frederica Philipsen, a young mantua maker, an orphan, without father or mother, were a@@ﬃanced. In faith of this pledge the poor girl yielded to the importunities of her lover, and became with child by him. As soon as this was made known to the blacksmith he not only rescinded his promise, but would not su@ﬀer the girl to enter his doors. Nothing was left for her but, through her guardians, to institute a suit against her deceiver in the proper tribunal, which decreed that he should either perform the marriage contract, or pay, by way of damages, a sum of 2,000 rix dollars banco-about 11,000f. Against this decision Mikkelson appealed, but it was con@ﬁrmed. Notwithstanding this, he refused   
 judgment in the Scots cause of Nas- th, v. ﬂare, was for reversing the decision of the court low. The woollen stampi@ng bill was read a second  The Marqui@@s of Lansdowne presented a @petition from i@n individual named James Gurney, of the King's Coun- ly, Ireland, praying the adoption of a plan @he  more effectual amelioration of t@@he poor.-Adjourned. Thursday, June 28. T@HE   h@alf-past two o'clock there was a com@mittee of pri- vileges on t@he Strathmore Peerage, when @Mr Wetherell was heard out for the @@all@eged son of the deceased Earl.-After @this the Lord Chancellor gave it as his opinion, @that the Earl of Strathmore being a British Peer, in both his peerages, the alleged son was illegitimate to all pur- poses of succession. The noble and learned Lord  in his opinion by Lord Redesdale, who con- tend@@ed that the kingdoms of England and Scotland had become one at the period of the union, when the law of England first be@came t@@he general law. The Earls of Shaftesbury as @chairman then moved, @That the right honourable Thomas Bowes had made out @his claim to the title of Earl of Strathmore, but that t@he supposed son of the deceased Earl had failed to make out his claim which motion was agreed to by the house. The Scottish distillery drawback bill, the Scots malt bill, the Irish stock transfer bill, the white herring fishery bill, and the charitable estates' bill, as amended, were severally read a third time, passed, and messages to that effect sent to the other house. Friday, June 29. T@he@@ bills of exchange bill, and the agricultural horse duty bill, were brought up from the Commons, and read n first time. The wool importation bill, the land tax commissioners bill, t@he Irish jail fees bill, and others, were read a third time, and passed. After a good deal of discussion on t@he London wharfs bill, it was read a third time, and passed.-Adjourned till Monday. Monday, July 2. The Royal Assent w@as given by commission to the loan bill, the @@Exchequer bills bill, the Irish Treasury bill, t@he Bank of Ireland, the wool importation, the Irish transfer of stock bill, the naval @stores bill, the Scotch @distilleries and malt duties bill, t@he wool registry bill, the vagrant @laws amendment bill, the county rates bill, the Justices of t@he Peace bill, the far trade regulation bill, and some private bills. Lord Dae withdrew the bankrupt laws amendment bill, upo@n which the @Lord Chancellor intimated he should @hi@mself bring in a bill upon this subject early in the next session of Parliament.  The Earl of Darnley, pursuant to notice, rose to bring forward his motion on this subject. After some introduc- tory remarks relatin@g to the advanced state of the session, a@@nd his anxious desire to see economy adopted in all the departments of the state, he entered into a long and de- tailed statement of t@he different departments, and their respective offices, wherein, he was persuaded, a great saving to the country might be made. The Noble Lord dwelt for some time on the distresses of agriculture, ob- serving that where the farmer, and t@he agricultural in- terest in general, were obliged to pay their rents out of their capital, without being able to realize any profit, dis- tress was the natural consequence. He hoped some ef- fectual remedy would be found to afford relief to the agri- cultural inter@est of the country. He next adverted to t@he navy, and although he was desirous of attributing great praise to t@he Noble Lord at t@he head of that department, for the active part he had taken to effect economy, still he thought a further saving might be made. T@he  alluded to the army, the ordnance, the civil list, and to every head under which he thought a reduc- tion of the present expendi@ture might be made and, up- on the whole, he thought a saving to t@he country might be safely effected to the amount of two millions. The Noble Lord concluded by moving an humble address to his Majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the expenditure of the country, with a view to economy. T@he Earl of Liverpool considered that @no effectual re- lief could be afforded to the agriculturists by  the ground near Regent's Bridge belonged to the Baronet @@@He took @occasion to notice another instance of negligence on t@he part of gov@@ernment, where the public interest was concerned. The revenue of Scotland, a- mounting to £3,000@,000, had been transmitted to@ this country by certain bankers, at forty days. A friend of his had offered to transmit it at twenty, and to give Ex- chequer bills in advance, or any security that might be required. This, however, had not been attended to, and the others having co@me down to thirty days, the Chancel- lor of the Exchequer had left the business in their hands, and thus a loss was sustained by t@he country. He co@n- cluded by moving a resolution, declaring, that it appear- ed to the House that great irregularities had taken place in connection with the building of the new Stamp Office in Edinburgh, and particularly in the appointment of the surveyor by a contractor, and in carrying on the works contrary to t@he opinions given by the Board of Stamps and the Board of Works, and in the purchase of the ground adjoining the said building. Sir @J. @Marjoribanks@ explained the circumstances con- nected with the purchase of the ground on which the Stamp Office ha@d been built, and his offer of the same to government. The situation, he contended, was in vari- ous respects more eligible than any other that had been offered. The size of t@he new building was at least one- third larger than Dumbreck's hotel, and laid out express- ly for the business. The cost of t@he Hotel would have been £@@8400, and the alterations which would be necessary must have occasioned an addition@al @charge of £@1500, making a total of @£99@00. The new building cost £9100. He com- plained of having been kept @in town by this motion, when he wished to accompany his family to Scotland, and con- cluded by lamenting t@he taste which bad obtained in the present times for assailing individual character. Lord A. Hamilton disclaimed all intention of imputing to the honourable Baronet, or to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, any corrupt motives in what they had done. He, however, should vote for the motion, if his honoura- ble friend pressed it to a division. The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, the question appeared to be, whether the Treasury ought, in t@he  @as giving any opinion on this subject. As a @Privy @@Councillor, he was bound to secrecy but @he could as-@ sure the Hon. Member, that any claim of her Majesty  measure only te@nded to create the evil. Economy was the only measure to adopt, and he was one of those who were de- sirous of seeing it adopted, as far as the safety of t@he country would admit. His Majesty's Governme@nt had been desirous of reducing the expenditure of the country upon this principle. During the last year the estimates were £1,@800,000 less than the year before, which was a proof of the intention of his Majesty's Government but the reduction of offices, @@c. required deliberation. Each of the heads which had been touched upon by the Noble @Lord would require one whole night to go into their mi- nutiae @and details. With regard to the navy, the Noble Lord ha@d thought a speci@c number less than the number at present would be sufficient for the protection of t@he country-but the Noble Lord did not seem to take into account that there was such a thing as wear and tear. No specific number of ships could remain stationary. If men did not die, or ships rot in time of peace, there would be no necessity for recruiting or ship building but unhap- pily this was not the case, and to keep up 84 sail of the line we were consequently put to all the expences of dock- yards and ship-building. He Lord Liverpool would not enter, at present, into the other statements of propos- ed retrenchment contained in the speech of t@he Noble Earl, but he must bring into view one t@hing which the Noble Earl seemed to have forgotten in his sweeping pro- gress of economy, namely, that a great proportion of the expenditure of the army consisted in half pay and allow- ances, which could not be reduced because guaranteed by the national faith. These fixed payments amounted to more than the whole peace establishment of 1792, and would,, so long as they continued, prevent us from re- ducing our military expenditure in the same proportion as we reduced t@he numerical force of the army. While @he stated this fact, and called upon Noble Lords to mo- derate their expectations, he was at the same time willing  to the choice he had made in the present in- stance, of a spot for building the office in question, he sho@@uld not enter very largely into the subject, after t@he adeq@uate explanation @given by the honourable Baronet behind him. He could, however, stat@@e, that he had de- cided as he had done with great pleasure, as he under- stood that the plan he had approved of would be subser- vient to the beauty of one of the first cities in the world. Relative to the transfer of money, he had to observe, that as the only difference between t@@he offer of the honourable gentleman opposite Mr Maberly and the Ba@nk of Scot- land was a period of five days in the date of his bills, he ha@d thought it but f@air to give the preference to the latter, which had for so long a period d@ the business with punctuality a@nd propriety. Mr Maberly explained the transaction alluded toby the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the honourable Baronet Sir J. Marjori@banks , in which he was involved. The Scotch remittances were ge@nerall@y made at 60 and 40 days' date. He, however, had offer@ed to government to do the same at 20 days' date. The Chancellor of the Exchequer then accepted the offer of the other parties at 35 days' date, thereby maki@ng a loss to the public of 15 days' in- terest upon three millions of money. He had not asked the Chancellor of the Exchequer for any favour, but merely for fair competition. After a few words from Sir J. Marjoribanks, Sir G. Clerk, and Mr Hume, the motion @@was negatived with- out a division. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE. Mr Hume brought forward @his promised motion rela- tive to the expenditure of the country. The honourable member went into an elaborate detail of items in the va- rious departments, pointing out various instances of ex- travagance and mismanagement, and concluded by mov- ing the following resolution That an humble address be presented to his Majesty, to the effect, that his Majes- ty might be pleased to institute a minute inquiry into the mode of collecting the revenue, and also into the salaries of officers, and that a vigilant superintendance might be held over every branch of the public expenditure, with a view to effect a reduction in the same, particularly in the military establishments. The Marquis of Tavistock supported the motion, and denounced the Ministers as unworthy the confidence of the Ki@ng or people@. Mr Banks, at considerable length, combated the argu- ments of t@he two preceding speakers, and moved as an @amendment that an address be presented to his Majesty, assuring him that the House viewed with satisfaction the measures that had been taken by government for a gene- ral revision of the expences incurred in collecting the cus- tom duties, and requesting his Majesty to give directions for @a similar revision to be extended to all the other branches of the revenue, in order that the collection of the same might be more economical a@nd efficacious that his Majesty be also intreated to cause an inquiry to be made into t@he various departments of the civil govern- ment. The Marquisses of Londonderry and Titchfield oppos- ed the motion, and Lord Milton a@nd Mr Creevy support- ed it@@@ when the house divided-For Mr Hume's motion, 94-Against it, 174. Thursday@, June 28. A petition was presented from the brewers of Dundee, praying the repeal of certain clauses in an act passed for the regulation of the sale of beer, and o@ne to the same ef- fect from Renfrew. Mr W@ilberforce moved an address to his Majesty, pray- ing him to provide some settlement for negroes that had would be duly considered. Mr Bernal, adverting to the question now before the House, declared his objection to granting the arrears to his Royal Highn@es@@@s. Mr Martin supported the grant he considered the House pledged by its former vote. After so@@me observations from other Members, the Re- port was agreed to, and the Bill ordered to be read a third time on Monday. Colonel Davies wished to know what was the estimated expences of the Coronation £100,000 had been @granted, but to look @at the preparations, he was convinced @£500,000 was not sufficient to answer the purpose. The Chancellor of the Exchequer was persuad@ed a small addition to the £100,000 already granted, would be sufficient. Mr Scarlett sa@id, it was estimated that 150,000 specta- tors would take seats to see the procession, at six guineas each. The proprietors of those stands were the only per- sons who would get any thing by the ceremony let them give up o@ne guinea out of each seat, and the expence would be defrayed. On the Order of the Day being read for receiving the Report on the Bill for auditing Public Accounts, Mr @@Maberly proposed a clause, which was agreed to by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a@nd @ad@ded to the Bill. Mo@nday@, July 2. Lord Londonderry moved the order of the day for the third reading of the Duke of Clarence's annuity bill. Mr Becher was decidedly against the grant of arrears o@n this subject. He was desirous of placing the Duke of @@Clarence on the same footing with the rest of the Royal brothers, a@nd therefore he would not oppose the annuity necessary for that purpose but the Member for Aber- deen had clearly, in his opinion, shown that £@3500 was sufficient to do this, and unless some one should show the contrary, and that £@6000 was requisite for that pur- pose, he should oppose that grant. Mr Serjeant Onslow defended the claim of the Royal Duke to the arrears, which the House was pledged to give   Mr Brougham said, his sentiments on this sub@ject were well known, and it was unnecessary he should repeat them but he wished now to advert to the important sub- ject which had been discussed on Saturday, namely, the delay of her Majesty's advisers in making a claim for her coronation. It @was the duty of her Majesty's advisers to wait till that ceremony was fix@ed. The proclamation was gazetted on the 12th June, and the 23d saw the memorial forwarded to his Majesty thus o@nly eleven days was ta- ken for consultation and preparing t@he memorial-no great delay---especially when it was considered that holidays intervening shut up many sources of intelligence from him though he had to acknowledge the great courtesy he had experienced in the British Museum. Lord Londonderry said, he had not charged her Ma- jesty's legal advisers with delay, but only compared their tardiness in making their application to the celerity which they expected in t@he answer to that application. As to the 21st May being the first@ time this subject was men- tioned, he had given his opinion even last session on this subject. She was then told that it rested with the Crown to call her or not to the ceremony, and that his Majesty would not be advised to require her attendance. He should also add, that a memorial was this morning re- ceived by the Secretary of @State from her Majesty, desir- ing to be heard by her Counsel. This was submitted im- mediately to his Majesty, and he was now prepared to state that his Majesty had, as a matter of grace and fa- vour, but not as one of right, given orders that her Ma- jesty should be so heard by her Counsel. He thought this would prove the disposition on the part of his Majes- ty to extend to the Queen every possible indulgence. Mr Brougham said a few words in explanation. The bill was then pass@ed, and ordered to the @Lords. On the order of the day for receiving the report on the extra post bill, Mr Calcraft opposed it as inconvenient, and likely to interfere with the present establishment.---He was follow- ed by Sir J. Yorke, Mr F. Lewis, @and others. The House then divided on the bill, when the numbers were-For receiving the report, . . 31 Against it, . . . . . 39 The bill was lost by a majority of -8 Mr Scarlett then rose to call the attention of the House to the poor law amendment bill. He wished not to ex- cite debate, but merely to state his reasons for not pres- sing the bill at this advanced period of the session, and to ask leave to withdraw it for the present. @He hoped that the measure would be attended next Ses- sion with a greater degree of discussion. He would, at the same time, propose another Bill for the purpose of re- gulating and modifying the system with the view parti- cularly of specifying the moral claims for relief, which demanded attention, and of checking t@he extravagance of management which was so generally felt. A warm  in continuation, observed,@@ It is precisely what has pas- sed in the English Parliament that proves my doubts are but too t@rue. We are guilty of an infraction of the Treaty, and thus foreigners may justly interfere. Like you, Gentlemen, I am hostile to such interfe- rence, and to the visiting of our ships, and these are reasons which demand, on the part of France, a reli- gious observance of the Treaty of Abolition but it is my intention to enter fully upon this subject, when the question of the Colonies shall be before the Assem- bly. Messrs. Benjamin Constant and Manuel, appealing to what had taken place in the British Parliament, quoted Sir George Collier's Report, and mentioned the eases which have been proved before Committees of both our House@. The Ultras took part in favour of the trade, and one of the most furious, Mr @De Puymaurim, had the audacity to say, t@hat these cases were lies, as atro- cious as they were absurd. The Minister of Marine also took upon himself to assert, that one of the most important statements contained in @Sir George Collier's Report was false because, forsooth, it appeared im- probable to his Excellency. Were we to look for ad- ditional proofs of the extent to which the Slave Trade continues to be carried on by France, we would not desire more convincing evidence than the temper displayed by the Chamber of Deputies on this occa- sion. A Committee, appointed by the Chamber of Depu- ties to examine and report on the state of the Press, have come to a resolution that the censorship ought to be abolished. @@@The ministry were, in consequence, said to be struck with consternation. @@Much sensation was excited in the Chamber on hearing this Report. The Deputies impatiently thronged to be registered for he discussion before the sitting was adjourned, forty-one were inscribed to speak in favour of its recommendation, and thirty-five to oppose it. The Court of Peers have decided upon the accusa- tions relative to the transactions of the 19th August. They acquit La@my, but find Nantil, Mazian, Rey, and @@@Lavocat, Guilty, under the 87th article of the Penal Code, to which verdict the penalty of Death is attached.  says the s@ame letter, is extremely injurious, and Russia will be the first to see the necessity of having recourse to much more efficacious means than mere remonstrances to the Divan. The arrival of Greek families, who seek in our country a shelter from the calamities which afflict their own, still continues. They consist, unfortu- nately, however, of little more than fugitives, desti- tute of all means of existence. They are received with compassion, and their countrymen who have been long established amongst us, subscribe largely for their support. Spain and Portugal. The advices from Spain are not of a nature to allay those apprehensions which the present condition of that country is calculated to excite. Indeed, the writers of some of the letters hold out the expectation of a po- litical crisis, which it is impossible for the Govern- ment, although supported by a large portion of the military, to avert. According to all the reports which have been re- ceived respecting the state of the Peninsula, the whole of the Provinces, with the exception of Gallicia and Catalonia, appear to be very cold with regard to the new system. In the sitting of the Cortes on the 18th, a letter from General Quiroga was read, in which, after re- turning thanks for the munificence of the Cortes in granting him a pension, he declares that he feels him- self sufficiently rewarded by the approbation of his ser- vices and that he shall want nothing as long as the Spaniards are free. Several members, complimenting the disinterestedness of the General, thought his refu- sal should not be accepted that regard should be had to his family, and some thought he had no right to re- fuse, or to make himself greater than the Cortes, who had decreed this mark of national gratitude. The General's offer to renounce his pension was declared to be inadmissible. Colonial Intelligence.  of compromise with t@he Norwegian Diet, on t@he  ceremony. A committee was appointed to arrange this business and carry it into effect. The official returns of the population of this city have not yet been received but we have seen a state- ment, which makes t@he numbers in Edinburgh and Leith amount to nearly 139,000, which is an increase since 1811 of 35,000. On Wednesday t@he Lord Provost, Magistrates, and Council elected Dr. Andrew Duncan, jun. M. D. to fill t@he Materia Medica chair in t@he University of Edinburgh, vacant by t@he recent appointment of Dr. Ja@mes Home to be Professor of the Practice of Physic. T@hursd@ay morning t@he last division of the 7th, or @Royal Fusileers, marched from this city for England. T@he Edinburgh militia assembled on Tuesday at Dalkeith, for 21 days training and exercise. T@he London, Leith, Edinburgh, and Glasgow Shipping Company's smack Fort@h arrived at London on Tuesday last, after a passage of @48 hours from the Frith of Forth. The City of Edinburgh steam packet arrived at Blackwall on Saturday morning, having anchored t@he night before at t@he Nore. She performed her voyage in 55 hours and 43 minutes, exclusive of stoppages.  Tuesday and Wednesday, there was caught by the fishermen at the port of Irvine, a considerable quantity of fresh herrings, of excellent quality, and large size one boat brought in about 1800 on Wednesday morning. The whole sold to good advantage, being t@he first herrings taken t@her@e t@his season. There is a prospect of t@he fishing being good on t@he opposite coasts. On Saturday week the salmon fishers employed near Elc@ho Castle caught in their net a herring, whi@ch mea- sured two feet in length, and weighed four pounds English. A fire broke out on Thursday last, in a wrig@ht's shop in Paisley, during the exhibition of Mr. Kent's aquatic performances on t@he liver Cart, and consumed all the property belonging to t@he inhabitants of three ad- joining houses. The property where the fire original- ed not having been insured, the owner was so much affected with his loss, that he threw himself out of the window of t@he room where @he went to sleep, and was greatly injured. Mr Carrick, banker in Glasgow, who died a few days ago, having no near relations, has left his fortune, with the exception of some legacies of no great a- mount, to two distant relatives, Mr Buchannan of Drumpellier, and Mr James Moore, surgeon in Lon- don, brother of t@he late Sir John Moore. Mr Moore gets the Galloway and Ayrshire estates, reckoned worth £150,000 Mr Buchanan, who is residuary legatee, is supposed to have got a much larger portion, having t@he Lanarkshire estates and the personals. As an instance of t@he remarkable droug@ht this sea- son, Lochlomond @has fallen fully seven feet perpendi- cularly from the water mark and persons pass and re- pass between two of t@he islands on stepping stones which have been placed t@here this week and of w@hich there is no former vestige.  of this bill, which was ordered to stand over till next @Session and after routine business, the House adjourned. Tuesday, July 3. Mr Hobhouse presented a petition from an individual named Benbow, at present a prisoner on an indictment preferred against him by t@he Constitutional Association, and who remained in confinement in consequence of his not being able to obtain bail for good behaviour, although @he could get bail for appearance. Col. Davies then rose to present another petition from Capt. Romeo, complaining of the conduct of the Sicilian Government, and of the  dition that an indemnity shall be granted to the suffer- ers, and that he shall have a right to ennoble hereaft@er any person who s@@hall render signal services to the state. Naples, June 14. The strength of t@he Austrian army, which now oc- cupies our territory, independently of the troops w@hich form the garrisons of all the fortresses throughout Naples and Sicily, is 25,000 men, who are all quar- tered round this capital. Several brigades have taken positions at Pug@ha, Foggia, and Salerno, and in Ca- labria. A strong division is cantoned in t@he Abbruz- zes. Paris, June 27. A person who was at Laybach, in intimacy with t@he Assemble@ Sovereigns, heard the Emperor Alex- ander say, in an impatient and emphatic tone, which he rarely shows, in speaking of t@he Greek commo- tions -'@No! I positively will not meddle with them. What! Is it o@nly to depend upon t@he foolish enter- prize of a youth, to impose upon me the necessity of putting my forces in motion@?' Letters from Vienna, of t@he 16th, communicate in-tellige@nce from Bucharest of the 3d instant, with far- ther details of the state of t@he Greek insurrection in that quarter. From a country where no gazettes or official reports are published, all intelligence must be viewed with distrust, and no statements believed with-@  of this Island by t@he new tariff, have been extremely injurious, and I find that I have a fair prospect of having t@he duties I have paid returned to me. The tariff itself produc- ed such ill consequences, that it was only acted upon for a few days.y him to the British army previous to our  up, a lengthened conversation took place respecting the  of £20,000 to General Desforneaux. This was,@ after much debate, cut down to £5000, on the suggestion of Lord Binning. The claim was for the use of hospitals at Guadaloupe, in the year 1796. @Friday, June 29. Lord A. Hamilton presented a petition from the brew- ers of Ayr, in Scotland, against the bill requiring certi- ficates for t@he sale of beer. The noble Lord, after a va- riety of observations showing the oppressive nature of this clause in the act, moved for a bill to repeal a clause of the act 1. 2. Geo. IV. cap. 22, requiring accounts and to admit, that there existed peculiar circumstances in the  of the country, to i@nduce us to reduce our expenditure as low as possible,-to make every exertion to economise. The Noble Earl concluded by proposing that after t@he words an humble address be presented to his Majesty. t@he following amendment should be substituted for the original motion - to assure his Ma- jesty that we have regarded with satisfaction the measures taken by his Majesty's commands for a general revision or expenditure in the department of the customs of Great Britain, and to entreat that his Majesty would be gra- ciously pleased to direct a similar investigation to be ex- tended to all the other branches of the revenue, in order to render its collection @@more economical and its manage- ment more efficient. And that, for giving further relief to the country, his Majesty would be graciously pleased to direct a more minute inquiry into the several depart- ments of the civil government, as well for the purpose of reducing t@he number employed, as with reference to the increased salaries granted during the late war, and since the year 1797, in consideration of additional labour thrown upon individuals, and t@he change in the value of money. @And further, that his Majesty would be graciously cleas- ed to direct that every personal savin@g consistent with the public interest @shall be effected in those more extended departments of the public service which the country is o@blig@ed to maintain, and more especially in the military expenditure, by a reduction in the numbers of the army, @and by a constant and vigilant supervision of all the de- partments of t@he State. When the question of the amendment was put from the woolsack. Earl Grosvenor gave the preference to the motion of his Noble Friend Lord Darnley , and insisted upon the practicability of t@he economical reductions which he had recommended, and th@e necessity of enforcing them under the existing distress of the country. After a few words from Lord Melville, Earl Carnarvon, and Lord@ Calthorpe, the amendment of Lord Liverpool was agreed to without a division. Tuesday, July 3. T@he Duke of Clarence's provision bill was brought from the Commons, also the Audit of Exchequer account bill, the assessed taxes composition bill, and the metropolis police bill. Wednesday, July 4. Several petitions were presented in favour of the bill for preventing cruelty to animals. Mr Brogden brought up from the Commons the appro- priation bill, the Custom-house officers relief bill, the lotteries bill, t@he Exchequer bills public works bill, and several other bills, which were read a second time. The@@ husbandry horses repeal bill was read a second time. The @Du@ke of Clarence's further provision b@ill was read a se- cond time, and after some routine business, the House adjourned. HOUSE OF COMMONS. Wednesday, June 27. EDINBURGH STAMP OFFICE. Mr Hume rose to bring under the consideration of the House the establishment of t@he Stamp Office at Edin- burgh. It having been considered necessary that a new Stamp Office should be provided for this d@epartment of t@he revenue at Edinburgh, a person was deputed to that capital to inquire for a proper building, and this gentle- man, in t@he course of his inquiries, discovered a house which he considered as well suited for the purpos@e-a building well known, under the title of Durnbreek's Ho- tel, which was to be purchased for £8400. He commu- nicated t@his fact to Government but private influence prevailed against his recommendation, and in consequence of some @ot@her recommendation, Government was induced  Exche- quer intimated there would be no occasion for the motion@ it was therefore negatived without a division. On the resolution for @£1535, 1s. for the payment of the officers of the Alien Office, Mr Hobhouse and Sir R. Wilson opposed it, on the principle of the oppressive na- ture of t@he alien act they declared it to he repu@@gnant to the feelings of every honourable man in the country. Af- ter a lengthened conversation between Mr Hobhouse, Lord Londonderry, Mr. Clive, Mr Bennett, and Lord Milton, t@he resolution was carried by a majority of 17. D@UKE OF CLARENCE. On the Chancellor of t@he Exchequer moving for going into a Committee on the grant to the Duke of Clarence, Mr Creevy rose to protest against the whole of this bill, which he declared to be ill-timed in its application, and unconstitutional in principle. The honourable member declared that t@he people had @been insulted, by the con- duct he pursued towards an Illustrious @Personage. After such conduct t@he Royal Duke came but with@ an ill grace to solicit money from the people. Mr G. @Bankes supported the grant. Mr Harbord considered the @Queen as much entitled to her arrears as t@he Duke of Clarence. Upon t@he same prin- ciple, £105,000 w@ere due to her. Lord Londonderry considered all those observations to have the effect which they were intended to have name- ly, to create discontent out of doors. A conversation then took place between Mr Palmer, Mr C. Bathurst, Mr W. Smith, and other honourable members, when t@he committee divided.-@@Ayes, 54-Noes, 24-Majority for the whole grant, 30. The house went into a Committee on the extra post bill, which was ordered to be received by a majority of 3. Satur@day, June 30. The following Bills were read a third time and passed -The Hops Drawback Bill, the Isle of @Man Bill, the Public Service Bill, and the Irish Silk Bounties Bill. DUKE OF CLARENCE.-CORONATION OF THE QUEEN. On the Report of the Duke of Clarence's Annuity Bill being brought up, Sir R. Ferguson said, he should give his decided ne- gative to the grant for the arrears, and at the same time wished to ask if her Majesty was to be crowned@? The Marquis of Londonderry said, an application had been made by her Majesty some days ago but that the Law Officers, to whom it was referred, had not yet given their answer. As far as he was aware, there was no in- tention t@hat her Majesty should participate in t@hat cere- mony. @Mr Denman thought it extraordinary that no positive answer was given to t@he application of her Majesty, and that it should have remained unanswered from Monday till Saturday. Full time ought to be given to her Ma- jesty to assert her claims before the Council. The @Marquis of Londonderry was surprised her  @ma- ture consideration, this did not appear to be a case in which the Government of this country could properly interfere. Lord @W. Be@ntinck could not say that Capt. Romeo had any direct claim by services rendered the British army in Sicily. If he was not paid sufficiently, he should have applied at the time to the governing au- thorities in Sicily. After a few words from Mr Coulburn, Lord A. Ha- milton, and Col. Davies, in reply, t@he petition w@as or- dered to lie on the table. Mr Wilberforce presented a petition from a Colonel Wood, stating that in 179@4, he had raised a regiment of volunteers, with the expectation of promotion, but had failed of obtaining t@hat object, whilst t@he expence to which he had been put had ruined his fortune-praying the house to afford him relief, as Government had refused to take his case into consideration. Lord @Palmerston said, so far from Col. Wood having any reason to complain, he was considerably in debt to the public, and the fault of Government, if any, was that they had been too indulg@@ent. Ordered to lie on t@he table. Mr Whitbread then brought forward his motion against the Constitutional Association, which he described as a Bridge-street plot, set on foot by Attornies, for their own benefit. He concluded by moving, t@hat the Attorney- General be directed to enter a nolle prosequi on all its pro- secutions. Mr Bathurst defended the legality of t@he Association, and believed t@he Attorney-General had no right to inter- fere. Dr Lushington supported the motion, and spoke against not only this society, but that for the suppression of vice. @Mr Wilberforce defended the latter, and deprecated the extreme licentiousness of t@he press, as exemplified by Carlile and others. Mr Denman condemned the society as unconstitutional. The Attorney and Solicitor General@ defended its le- gality. Mr Brougham and Mr Scarlett maintained that it was unconstitutional, and therefore illegal. The latter ad- mitted that he might alter @his sentiments, after hearing arguments on the subject. Mr Whitbread declined pressing t@he motion to a divi- sion, a@nd it was negatived. The Lottery Bill was passed, after some opposition from Dr Lushington and Mr Bennett. The appropriation bill was passed, after a conversation on the proceedings of the session and then t@he House adjourned to Tuesday next.  having been paid off, on Saturday, at Chatham, was re-commissioned on Sunday morning, the 1st inst. by Captain Sir Mur- ray Maxwell, K.@C.@B., and is to bear the flag of Ad- miral Sir B. Hallowell, Commander-in-Chief of his @Majesty's ships and vessels in the Medway.-Kentish Gazette. Accounts have reached the Navy-office of the safe arrival of the following convict-ships at New South Wales, having on board 1,112 convicts, vir. -Maria, 156 Hebe, 160 Alm@orah, 160 Juliana, 160 Do- rothy, 190 Prince of Orange, 136 and Caledonia, 150 of whom, it is gratifying to remark, only three died on the passage out, and one after being landed. On Wednesday afternoon the Redpole, 10, Captain Hay, sailed for the Mediterranean, in consequence of orders suddenly received on t@hat day. The Dispatch, 18, Captain Jervoise, is also to sail immediately for the same station. The present state of the contest carrying on between the Turks and Greeks in the  however, from these letters, that the  committed by the Turks on entering Bucha-@ Greeks  Servia, which  At the Annual General Meeting of Proprietors of t@he Sea Insurance Company of Scotland, held in their office here on Monday the 2d curt. the following gen- tlemen were unanimously elected Directors for the en- suing year. A dividend was at the same time declar- ed payable on the 1st of August next -EXTRAORDINARY DIRECTORS. James Bruce, Esq. Sec. to the Board of Excise. Duncan Stewart, Esq. of Glenbuckie. John Baird, Esq. of Camelon. Donald Macdonald, Esq. of Loch Inver. Wm. Watson, jun. Esq. Merchant, Campbelton. Henry Jar@dine, Esq. his majesty's Remembrancer, Court of Exchequer. James Spittal, Esq. Merchant, Edinburgh. John Macfarlan, Esq. Merchant, Glasgow. Robert Smith, Esq. Merchant, Edinburgh@. Hugh Cowan, Esq. Merchant, Ayr. Richard Duncan, Esq. Banker, Glasgow. James Shearer, Esq. Surveyor, General Post Office. @William Inglis, Esq. of Middleton. @Thomas Allan, Esq. Banker, Edinburgh. @William Wedderspoon, Esq. Perth. ORDINARY DIRECTORS. R. B. Blyth, @Merchant. Alexander Lawrie, Gazette Office. George Small, @Merchant. Robert Gordon, late of Jamaica. Alexander Stevenson, Albany Street. Andrew Pearson, Excise Office. George Mylne, Accountant. @John Sanderson, Hunter's Square. Josiah Maxton, Saddler. Alexander Henderson, Merchant. Adam Anderson, Merchant. Alexander Wight, Banker. @Colin Macnab, Great King Street. @John Archd. Campbell, W. S., and @James Marr, Merchant, Leith. WILLIAM BRAIDW@OOD, Jun. Manager. ROBERT GI@BSON, Secretary. Those marked thus@@ are new Directors. Coronation Dinner at Elgin. S EVERAL Gentlemen, in Elgin and its Vicinity@, propose to DINE together, on Thursday the 19th inst. to celebrate the CORONA@TION of our Most Gracious Sovereign, and will be happy to be jointed by their friends and neighbours. A Subscription Paper, for such Gentlemen as choose to put down their names, will be found at Mr.  Shop, until Monday the 1@6th inst. at two o'clock, when a Meeting of the Subscribers is requested, at Maclachlan's Inn, to appoint Stewards, and otherwise arrange for the occusion. Elgin, July 9, 1821.  this spot, was t@hat of a Mr John- ston, merchant, Edinburgh, who was a friend of an ho- nourable Baronet now present and the work proceeded @on the authority of @Lord Melville, t@he Lord Advocate, @and Mr Johnston, merchant, the friend of t@he honoura- ble Baronet, contrary to the opinion of the Board of @St@amps. This be@@ Mr Hume contend@ed was an instance of gross neglect of public @eco and they certainly could not advise that her Majesty should share the august ceremony. It was only as matter of favour that her @Majesty could @be crown- ed and t@hat favour they could not advise their Royal Master to confer. Mr Denman observed, it would have been very unbe- coming in her Majesty's legal advisers to have put for- ward her claim, until it was ascertained whether t@he co- ronation would take place or not. The same appearances were seen a year ago@ when it was not quite certain, whe- ther they were for t@h coronation of the King, or the de- gradation of his Royal Wife. He still complained of the delay which took place in answering the memorials of her Majesty. Courtesy, at all events, should have dictated a diff@erent line of condu@ct, if the exalted station of a Queen of England could not command attention. He coul@d hope but little from the Council to whom her Majesty had ad- dressed her Memorials. Mr Scarlett wished to know if her Majesty claimed to be heard by counsel, or not@? There was only one in- stance in which a Queen was @not crowned. The wife of Charles the First@ was not crowned, because she was a Catholic and in the th@@en state of the times it would @have been dangerous  priest to perform  with prompt pay- ment all that was offered. The armaments were pro- ceeding with great activity, particularly in the arsenal, and new fortifications were erecting on the Bosphorus. From t@his it would appear, that a visit from the Greek fleet is held by the Divan to be a possible  of t@he kingdom, to consider of the best meansa but firmly, resolves itself into a question  June 27, 1821. These are to give notice, that all such Peeresses or Widows of Peers of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, as intend to see the solemnity of his Majesty's Royal Coronation in Westminster- Hall, do forthwith send their names to the Right Ho- nourable Lord Gwydir, Deputy Great Chamberlain of England and such of them as desire to see it in the Abbey, do send their names to the Right Honourable Lord Henry Howard Molyneux-Howard, Deputy Earl Marshal of England, to the end that places may be provided for them. JAS. BULL@ER. This Gazette also contains a notification from the Deputy Earl Marshal, that no tickets ſor the Coro- nation will be issued to Peers, Privy Councillors, or others, who shall not have signiffed to him, on or be- fore the 7th of July, their intention of attending at the said solemnity. Turkish power, has been@ recommended by Jus@suf Aga of the Janissaries, who is well known for his fi- delity and prudence. This experienced man repre- sented that this was the only means to attach the Janis- saries and on the 15th of May, it was resolved to or- ganize the Ottoman army on the@ European footing.n crown. In the Court of King's Bench, W. Floyer, Esq. convicted of certain publications against Sir Robert Peel, arising out of an election contest for the borough of Tam@worth, was sentenced to imprisonment for three   sant differences with the Maritime Powers, is, '@The summons sent to all the Piratical States of Barbary to join the SULTAN'S fleet, with all the ships which they can equip.' In the summons addressed to these States, every t@hing is said that can inflame fanaticism and tempt cupidity. The English Ambassador has already declared that his Court cannot permit the ships of the Barbary States to come into the Ionian Sea and that all the ports of the Ionian Islands would be shut a- gainst them. @@@@T@he admission of representatives of the Janissa- ries into the Divan, a circumstance unparalleled in the Turkish history, has excited an extraordinary sensation here. The consequences of it are  of Deputies, on Tuesday last@ the proposition of the grant for the maintenance of t@he Naval Forces, led to a brief discussion upon the prac- tices of France in respect to t@he Slave Trade. Gene- ral Foy inquired whether the ships destined to pre- vent@ t@he felonious and detestable traffic in slaves, had discharged t@he duty assigned them in an exemplary manner?-Europe, exclaimed the General, says No! -M.  replied.@@  of the marines and of the 86th regiment, in which, before it was quelled, several persons were severely hurt, but we understand that no lives were lost. An attempt was made to renew the quarrel on Thursday night, but frustrated by the ener- gy of the Officers of the Garrison. The Coroner's Inquest on the bodies of Mr. Do- naldson and Mr. Whitaker, who unfortunately lost their lives at Sunderland bridge, as mentioned in our last, brought in a verdict of Man-slaughter, caused by furiously driving, against James Auld, t@he coachman, and made a nominal deodand upon the coach  T HE R. W. Master and Office Bearers of SOLO- MON'S LOGDE, wishing to show their Loyalty to His Majesty King George the Fourth, on the happy occasion of his Coronation, which is to take place on the 19th of July current, hereby invite all the Brethren of the Lodge to come forward, in their @Masonic Clothing, on the said 19th of July curt. by eleven o'clock in the forenoon, to meet t@he R. W. a@nd Office-bearers, in their Hall, to walk in Procession, and afterwards to Dine a@nd spend the Day in a social manner, as becomes Masons. WILL@M. M'KAY, Clerk. NOTICE TO CREDITORS, And Sale of BUILDING AREAS IN REGENT STREET. T HOSE having Claims against JOHN MAY,@@ @Mason in Aberdeen, are requested to lodge t@he same, with affidavits thereon, in the hands of Alex. Al- lan, or James Nicol, Advocates, betwixt a@nd Friday first, in order that a correct statement of Mr May's affairs may be made up. Those Creditors who shall have lodged their claim@, with affidavits, by that time, will receive an interim dividend, on applying as above, on t@he 20th curt. And. There will @be sold, by public roup, within the New Inn of Aberdeen, on Friday the 3d day of August next, at two o'clock afternoon, that LOT of GROUND, mea- suring 100 feet along t@he South side of Regent Street, and 70 feet, or thereby, along the @Road leading from Castlehill to the Quay, fronting t@he Canal Basin, and having t@he advantage of two fronts. From its central si- tuation, and vicinity to t@he harbour, it is well worthy t@he attention of Builders, or those wishing to lay out their money to advantage. If not disposed of in one Lot, it will be afterwards exposed in separate lots. Also, one equal undivided Third Part or Share of the WEAVERS' SHOP, in Regent Street, Presently occu- pied by Messrs, Leys, Masson, and Co. renting £27 yearly. The Articles of Roup are in the hands of the said Alex. Allan, and James Nicol, to whom intending purchasers may apply for farther particulars. Aberdeen, July 10, 1@821. NOTICE TO CREDITORS AND DEBTORS. A L@L those who have claims against the subjects of WILLIAM COCK, in Upper Crichie, are desir- ed to lodge them, in the course of this month, properly vouched, with John Mitchell, in Mill of Fortrie, that the state of @his affairs may be known and those indebted to him are requested to pay in their accounts to the said J. M. within the foresaid time, to prevent expences. NOTICE TO CREDITORS AND  Strang@ford,  and committed to j@ai@l, f@or trial at the next  of the ceremonial forms omitted. Ge-  ally, when the Ambassadors co@me to the middl@@ of t@he Seraglio Orta Capussi t@hey are desired  @@i@s an increase since 181@1 @o here they are generally made to wait an hour be- fore they are admitted into the second Court. Lord Strangford did not stop at all, but passed the bench. The Sultan himself answered @his speech, which is usually done by the Grand Vizier. A private letter from Vienna, dated June 16th,  that the troubles in the Levant could only be  of the  having Claims of Debt against the@@ late Miss ANN @@WH@YTE of Keith, are hereby required to lodge the same, properly vouched, in the hands of Mr W. Rainy, Schoolmaster of Drumblade, before the 23d inst. and those indebted to Miss Whyte, will please pay what they owed her, to Mr Rainy, on or before the above-mentioned day. July 9, 1821. STRAYED, FROM SEATON, On Sunday Evening last, the HOUSE DOG. A Youngng Large BLACK DOG, of the Newfound- land breed all black but a part of his fore feet, which are greyish or brown and a white part on th@e breast ears, and long bushy tail, uncut answers to the name of Bill, or Billy. Any one detaining him after this, will be prosecuted as the law directs and any one bringing him to Seaton House, or giving notice where he may be found, will be handsomely rewarded. He had a strong 
  This Day are published, With Two Engravings, Price 3s. MEMOIRS OF THE CALEDONIAN HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, No. X. Containing the following, among many, interesting ar- ticles Mr Hay on the Application of Steam to the hear- ing of Forcing-houses, with a plate .-An Account of the Russian Chiccory Plant, and of the Arti@ﬁcial Co@ﬀee@.  @.-Mr Sang on the Advantages of the Shallow Planting of Fruit Trees.-Mr John@ Young @@on the Preparation of Sopori@ﬁc Medicines from Garden @Lettuce.-Mr James Kirk on the Soil best suited to Peachch Trees.-Mr John Dick on Grafting t@he Ribston Pip@pir. -@Mr Adam Melrose on Sea-Cale and Asparagus.---Mr John Mutray o@n Improvements of the Conservatory. @@Printed  Co. Edin- burgh of w@hom may be had, the sa@me @@Work, Nos. I. to @@I@X. with engravings, price 3s.  as follows, v@iz. -District@@s of A@BERDEEN and R Inve- rury, upon Tuesday the @@31st day of  of ELLON and DEER, @at ed in the annals of Polite@@  and that of the wild and impassion@ed, but kind @@and good-hearted Lady Gertrude, has air @@ if not of originality, about  is awfully i@m  Lordships'  who may wish to remain abroad  leave, should take care to apply for a renewal there- of, in due time, so that such application may be received   not the feelings of those who can read it unmoved.---We conclude, with @merely returning our thanks to the author, of whatever sex, for the pleasure which we have received from a @book so moral, w@@ellnd d@eeply interesting.@   1821. Ma@ny of the incidents @of the story are of no simple kind but are strong materials, @which have been used style and general  to @be a lady, and one pos- sessing a mi@nd of no ordinary   Edinburgh Monthly Magazine for May. Printed for Oliver and Boyd, Edinburgh. @@ KINCARDINE O'NIE@L, at Gardens@hiel, upon Tuesday the 4th day of September. N.B. This @new District comprehends the parishes of  the @parts @of the parishes of Strath@don and Ta@rland above the @Lonag, and the@ part of the parish of Ca-brach, in the county of  as @un@less very special circumstances can be stated in any @@particular case no @@Half-pay can be paid for a@ny  abroad which @small not be covered by their @Lordships' leave. All applications, eit@her for original leave, or for a re- newal thereof, whether made through Agents or other- wise, must be written by the O@@ﬃcer himself, and addres- sed to the Secretary of the Admiralty. O@@ﬃcers who may not employ an Agent, may have the public fees on their @letters of leave deducted from their Half-pay, on specify- ing their desire to that e@ﬀect in the letter asking for the leave.  recommend, and will be sold on the most mo- @@@@derate terms. Also, Superior SPRUCE BEER.  ING and EDUCATING the CHILDREN of SOLDIERS, SAILORS, and MARINES, Natives of Scotland, who have died or been disabled in the service of their country, and of indigent Scotch Parents resident in London, not entitled to Parochial Relief. Cross-street, Hatton-garden. Notice is hereby given, that an Election of Six Boys, to be placed on the Foundation, will take place on the @ﬁr@st Thursday in December next. The children must not be under seven years of age on the day of election, nor above ten at the time application is made for admission. In the case of Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines, the father must have been born in Scotland, and have died, or been disabled, while in his Majesty's service. Applications on behalf of Candidates to be transmitted, post-paid, ad- dressed To the Corporation of the Caledonian, Asylum, London,@ on or before the 1st of September next, in  OR, THE PRINGLE FAMILY. By the Author of Annals of the Parish, @@@c. Printed for  Edinburgh and T. CAD@ELL, Strand, London. Of @@who@m may be had, ANNALS of the PARISH or, the CHRONICLE of DALMAILING, during  of the Reve- rend  by hims@elf.-12mo. 8s. This day is published, In one large volume 8vo. with 8 Plates, Price 15s. E  the PHILOSOPHY of@@@ PL@ the following  at the Institution in London, m@ay be obtained printed forms of Petition, viz. At Edinburgh. Lewis Gordon, Esq. Deputy-Sec@retary of the Hig@hland Society of Scotland ---Aberdeen, Messrs. Alexander Brown a@nd Co. Booksellers ---El@gin, Is@aac Forsyth, Esq. ----Inverness, Lachlan Mackintosh of Raigmore, Esq ---Glasgow, Benjamin Mathie, Esq. Secretary of t@he Glasgow Highland Society ---Perth, James Menzies, Esq. Secretary of the Perth Highland Society  John Campbell, Esq. Sheri@ﬀ-Clerk of the County ---Campbaltown, Baillie Hugh Mackay  Po@rtree, John M'Pherson, Esq. ---Dumfries, John Syme, Esq ---Montrose, Ja@mes Crawford, Esq. ---and Shetland, William Mowat, Esq. M. S. METCALFE, Sec. FARMS AND CROFTS, T@O LEY, On the Estate of ORROK, parish of Belhelvie. T HEY consist of various sizes, from 9 to 100 Acres, a@nd will be divided so as to suit intending 
I@n Whitecroſs‐Street, the S@urgeon's Sign near Red Lyon Market , St. Luke's, formerly Cripplegate Pariſh Liveh G. WEST, Surgeon, who cureth all the Symptoms of the French  whether Freſh contra‐ ed, or of long Continuance, by  new, ſpeedy, and ſure Me‐ thod And @@Recent Clap in  Anti‐Venereal Eleuary The like of which is not @to be met with, For the true Cure of fre@ſh Venereal Injuries, an all the lurking Relicks or Remains of old   ſoever they may be@ for it immediately puts a Stop t@o their Progreſs, and entirely, and, as it were,  car- ries o@ﬀ all the @ﬁlthy, poiſonous Infe@ion, wears away the various S@ SYPHILICON The only ſhort and mo@ infallible Cure in the Univerſe, foror  From the @ighte@ Infe@ion, to the mo@ extreme and deplorable Degrees of it, even when the Blood and Juices are tho- roughly contaminated with its malignant Virus, and the very Bon are a@ﬀe@ed with it. Freſh Infeions call'd CLAPS, with all their attendant  And as for ſuch unfortunate @Perſons, who by negle@ of s, or for Want of he timely Uſe or my Never- ailing Remedies, lie u@nder @the miſerable Circum@ances @of Virulent Runnings, Old Geets,  of Une, @d. This i does in a Way ſo  Urine, and with a Doſe, each Time, ſo ſmall and pleaſant,  the Blood and Ju ted with any rem@ning  one Hand, or a ſeminal Gleet,  I cure according  approved Method now in Pra@@ In the Pa@ﬀage going to Red Lyon Market, by the T is a back Door, a Surgon's Sign hanging over it, that leads to @my Houſe. Advice and proper Remedies in all Caſes of Surgery. The mo@ @wonderful clean@ng and @rengthening DROPS for all Sorts of  the Generative Parts and Faculties, preventing Miſcarriages in Women. And to cleanſe and @rengthen the Reins, Kidneys and Bla@der cure weak Backs, Stranguaries, Gravel, and Stoppage of the Urine, and for which it hath ga'd ſuch Repute, that near 16000 Bottles @have been ſold @nce April 1734, that they were @r publiſh'd. Theſe incomparable DROPS, which for the aboveſaid Diſorders are not to be equall'd in the whole Art of Medicine, were preſcribed by the late Dr Ratcli@ﬀe, for a certain noble Lord, who for a long Time had been vexed with an old, ob@iee Gleet and Weak@neſs, of which he was cured by them in a few Days, beyond all Expeation, after he had  Ele@uaries, Bolus's, Pills, Potions, Injeions, and a hundred other Medicines, for many Mon@ths together in vain. The Apothecary who prepared them for him according to the Do@or's Preſcription which he has @ill upon his File has made Uſe of them ever @ﬁnce, to Numbers of People, in the very wor@ of Gleets, ſemi@nal and genital Imbecilities and Infertilities, Pains i the Back and Rei@s. Diſorders of the Ur@me and Gravel, @@c. with the utmost Succeſs and Safety as a@ſo in  Weaknees from Strain as well asVenercal   nal Emi@@ons in the Sleep, Fall, Blow, and the like @in both Sexes. And as they have never @nce fail'd him, even in Cales thought it be incurable, @he now, for general Good, has @made th@em  their Weight in Gold, more  generally cures, even in the mo@ draining Gleets, and grievou Relaxations and Weaknees of the Seminals and Genitals that are. Nor can there be prepared, by any Art or Skill, a more clea@nng and healing, or a more @rengthening and invigorating Medicine,  one that can more e@ﬀeually cure I@mpotency or prote Fertility, than this, as every one that but once tries it will ſay, by their @ſoo ﬁnding the Di@ﬀerence between this and other Remedies for it will do more in one Day, towards reoring in theſe Weakne@es, than any others can in ten, a@nd is of ſo corroborating a Nature, that it may b intirely rely'd upon for curing perfectly  @ﬁr@mly, without Fear o  even in the  w@hich can hardly b ſa@id of any other Medecine and it is withal ſo elegantly pleaſant t the Palate, and ſo agreeable to the Stomach, that the i@ee  d@elight@ed with it. Mr. We Goldnith, that @uſed to ſell theſe Drops, being lately drad, they  now ſold only at his Sun in‐Law's, Mr. Johnſon, a Baer, at the Sign of the Se@ven Stars in Vere‐Street, ner Clare Market, ready ſeal'd up with   Meienger, upor o@nly asking for a Bottle of Drops, and paying 3 s. 6 d. To Ma@ers of Ships, Shopkeepers, Country Dealers, @@c. Dr. ROCK's TINCTURE. Which gives inant Eaſe in the mo@ violent TOOTH‐ACH, in a @ſhort Time cures the Scurvy in the @@GUMS, a@nd makes the foul@e TEETH as white as Ivory. Is to be had at his Houſe, the Sign of the HAND and FACE in King's Arnis‐Court, Ludgate‐Hill, over again@ the London Punch Houſe, near Fleet Ditch at the @ex Serpent in King's Street, Convent‐Garden at Mr. AERL in Canterbury and by the Men that caies the News. Price One Shilling a Bottle with Dire@ions It is impo@@ble to enume rate the many ſurpri@ng Cures performed by this inimitable Pre- paration. It having gain'd the univerſal Approbation both in Town and Country that have made Uſe thereof, and found up- on the large@ Experience, to be the only ſafe and infallible Medi- cine for whitening, fa@ening pre ſervi@ng and cleanng the Teeth, that ever was o@ﬀer'd to the Pub- lick  having cured divers Perſons who had Ulcers and Cancer in the Mouth, and others whoſe Teeth and Gums were al@mo@ eaten away with the Scurvy i kills Worms that lie in the Root and Marrow of the Teeth, and preſerves and ſweerens the Breath to Admiration @@and so gentle and halſamick a Preparation, that it is alſo an exc@eeding Beauti@ﬁer of the Face, infallibly takes o@ﬀ Sun‐burn, Freckles, Scur@ﬀ, c. and gives a @ﬁne Grace to the Features It certainly prevents the Guta Roſacea, i. e. a Red- neſs, with Pimples in the Noſe and Cheeks, and ſometimes in the @whole Face, which often render the Face rough and horrid, and Noſe mon@ruouy big. This famous Tinure is  the greate@ E@eem in Foreign Parts, as well as in England, and is univerſally allow'd to be the mo@ valuable Gem that either Art or Nature ever produced it having never fail'd, though innumerable Trials have been made in all the Caſes abovemention'd. Alſo the  for curing the ITCH, and all ſcorbutic Humours and Breakings out whatſoever, though arrived to the highe@ and  Degree, or of ever ſo long @anding, it takes away all Spots, Blotches, Pimples or Scabs from the Hands, Legs, or any Part of the Body, occ@aﬁon'd by that o- dious Di@emper it puri@ﬁes the Blood, ſweetens all the Fluids, rec- ti@ﬁes the Juices, directly cleans the whole Habit from all Marks, ching@, fonl Irruptions, c. and in a very @ſhort Time accom- pliſhes the Cure with the utmo@ Eaſe and Safety. It hath a deli- cate Flavour, and no more prejudicial to Linnen than fair Water. It is an excellent Medicine to take o@ﬀ Scu@rﬀ or Reducſs from the Face, whether occa@on'd by hard Drinking, Surfeits, or any other accidental Cauſe. Price 1 s. 6 d. Advice and proper Medicines in all Di@empers.@@ Note, The Do@@or gives con@ant Attendance at his Houſe afore@- ſaid, and cleans, ſcales, and draws Teeth as  Perſons are as well ſur- prized as delighted with it and the more,@ as it a@grees with every ones Con@itution, hinders no Bu@ﬁneſs, nor gives th@e lea@ Suſpici- on to the neare@ Relation. In a very ſmall Space of Time, living temperately it rids away a mild CLAP, and thoſe more@ ſevere, according to their ſeveral Degrees of Malignity.@@@@ There never was, or can be, in the whole Art of @Phyck contri- ved, any Medicine or Method capable of  the cure more certainly, more ſafely, or more ſpeedily, for it is  compleatly ad- apted to every Circum@ance of the Infeion, and ſo@ fully anſwers the ſeveral Intentions of curing, that it is impo@@ble it @ſhould once fail. But no more need be ſaid of it, for it will recommend irſelf, in- ſomuch that no Perſon will ever after ſeek for Cure himſelf, or adviſe his Friend to any other Remedy. Price Five Shillings the Tin Pot. Prepared only by the Door, as aboveſaid, and left ſealed up with Direions at Mr. I@ed'd a Bookſeller, at the Golden Ball between St. Dun@an's Church and Chancery‐Lane End in Fleet‐reet where it may be had by any Me@enger, asking only for a 5 s. Pot of the COMPOUND muc@h famer  Days infallibly Cures  MEN and VAROURS  MEN, ſo as never to return again, be they ever ſo ſevere, or of many Years @anding, and even after all other Remedies have proved ineﬀual for they immediately @rike at the very Root or true Cauſe, as well as remedy the E@ﬀes of thoſe perplexing  Symptoms, by@ which they mimick by turns, al-  Mortals are aﬄi@e@d with, and have their Appetite, vitious Ferment in the Stomach, and  from a depraved Appetite, vitious @Ferment in the Stomach, and @Indige@ion of Food, whence proceed Crudities and @ﬂatulent or windy Diſorders in the @ﬁr Pa@ages, ill Fumes, ſour Belchings, Cholick, and Unea@@neſs in the Bowels  which Crudities o@ﬀend the Nerves, and, by conſent of Parts a@ﬀect the Head, and produce ſometimes Gid- dineſs, Dimneſs of Sight,conſuſed Thoughes, pertinacious Watchings, troubl@eſome Sleep, Frights, groundleſs Fears, and the deepe@ Melan- choly, wi@th direful Views and terrible Apprehen@ﬁons at other Times Fits, @ﬂu@ſhing Hears, Reaching , Faintneſs, Lowneſs and Sinking of the Spirits, Palpitation of the Heart, Startings, Tremblings and Twitchings in the Limbs and other Parts, with many convul@ﬁve  @ſharp Pains @ﬁx'd or wandering, Pain and Weakneſs in the Back and other, almo@ innumerable and grievous Symptoms, which miſerably  va@ Numbers of both  their ſharpe@ Paroxyſms, theſe ſo  pleaſant Drops which are chy@mically prepared  Time annihilate their real Cauſe, dir@ely bringing the Stomach into right Order, creating a good Appetite, reifying the Dige@ion, occa@ﬁoning landable Chyle, and of Courſe, good Bloud, Plenty of Calm, free, and chearful Spirits,  regular Circulation of all the Fluids, and Strength of Nerves ſo @hat both Cauſe and E@@ﬀes of Melancholy and Vapours are tho- oug@hly removed by them, al@mo@ on the Spot, as the many Thou- land of both Sexes they have perfe@ly cured, evince. Whoever takes them for three Days only, will be ſenﬁble they are abſolutely to be depended upon, for an  @ling Cure, and certain it is, that no Medicine upon Earth can equal them be careful therefore to have the right Drops, which are to be had only at Mrs. Holt's at the Croſs‐Keys and Star, below the Royal Ex- change, in Cornhill, at 3 s. 6 d. a Bottle, with Dire@ions at large. An inſallible Cure  WOMEN and IMPOTENCY in MEN By SUPERLATIVE, ENLIVENING DROPS Which in a few Days render both Sexes Proli@ﬁck in a mo@ wonderful Manner. Hundreds of Ladies who were deemed incurably barren, and very many who thought themſelves too old to bear Children, have immediately conceived after taking three or four Doſes of them only and va@ Numbers of Gentlemen by taking them, have preſently become capable of propagating their Species, who before, through either I@mbecility or Age, imagin'd t i@mpo@@ble. They almo@ in@antly renovate the vital Ferment of the Blood and Juices, re@ify the languid State of all the Fluids, rouſe, for- tify and increaſe the Spirits, invigorate the Nerves, re@ore juvenile Warmth, and cauſe a ſparkling Gladneſs and ardent Courage to @ﬂow in the Heart, and expand itſelf through the whole human Sy@em, ſo as ſen@bly to enliven and invigorate all the animal Fa- culties, and corroborate or @rengthen the whole Body, as well as the Parts a@p@@priated to Generation, and do infallibly cure Bar- renneſs in one Sex,  on the other. And the mo@ inveterate Degree of the French Illneſs, attended with nocturnal Pains, univerſal Breakings‐out, and all other the m@o exaſperated Symptoms, are ſoon overcome by it, and e@ﬀe@ually and much more ſafely cured than by Salivation, Inungation, or any other Method whatever, and in ſo eaſy and pleaſant a Manner, without impairing Strength, or occa@oning any Inconveniencies, as loudly to beſpeak it the only oppo@te Remedy, or true Venereal Antidote in the World and this ſome Thouſands have, to their great Joy expe- tienced. It is pleaſant to take, occa@ons no Sickneſs or Diſorder, not requires Con@ﬁnement, but may be taken, and the Cure accompli@ſhed, without the Knowledge of the eare@ Friend. T@hoſe who ſuſpe@ they have received an Injury, may only by a Doſe or two of it be perfe@ly freed from all Apprehe@nons for it ſu@ﬀers no lurking Venom to lie hid in the Body, but wholly exti pates it Root and Branch, in a gentle, eaſy, and mo@ e@ﬀe@ual Manner. All ſuch likewiſe as doubt they have ſome remaining Relicks of former Injuries, may, by a few Doſes of it, intirely free them ſelves from all Suſpicions of that Kind for it admits of no Foulneſs, Corruption, or Putrefa@ion whatever, to remain in the Fluids or to adhere to the Solids, and on that Account, in all Scorbutich, Scrophlous, and even Leprous Eruptions or Fou@lneﬀes of the Skin, Gla@ndulous Swellings and Impurities of the Juices, it does more by one Doſe than any other Medicine yet known can by ten. The Price of this mo@ noble Anti‐Syphilicon is but Six Shilling a Pot, which con@ﬁdering its extraordinary E@@ﬃcacy, one Pot only be- ing ſu@@ﬃcient, in mo@ Caſes, to accompli@ſh the Cure, is not a tenth Part of its Value@@ and is appointed by the Author to be had only at Mr. Radford's Toy‐ſhop, at the Roſe and Crown again@ St. Cle- ment's Church‐yard in the Strand, ready ſcaled up, with a Book of In@ru@ions, by the Peruſal of which all Perſons who were ever af- fe@ed with any Degree of the Venereal Diſenſe, may perfe@ly un- der@and their own Condition, and certainly know when, and when not, the Venereal Poiſon is entirely rooted out of their Bodies. Note Ask only for a Six Shilling Pot for the Scurvy. CONSUMPTIONS of all Sorts ASTHMA'S, And all Diſorders of the B@R Dire@ly and infallibly Cured, By the Great, CHYMICAL  W@hich has re@or'd ſo many Thouſands labouring under the deepe@ Conſumptions and mo@ deplorable A@hma's to perfe@ Hl  Strength in a few Days Time, after all other the mo@ celebrated Methods and Medicines had been try'd in vain. It at once @rikes at, and abſolutely eradicates the @@ﬁr Principle or Cauſe of Conſumptio@ns, whether of the Lungs or of any other Kind, as alſo of A@hma's or ſhortneſs of Breath, reduces the vi- cious Ferment of the Blood and Juices, corre@s the zorid Salts which crods the Longs, frees them from all ob@ructing. Viſco@ties, and does more real Good in one Day than any other Medicine whatevee can in Ten. It a@uredly retrieves the Patient, tho' reduced to a mere Skeleton and immedrately cures the mo@ tedious wa@ing and almo@  ting Cough, Hoarſneſs, Whee@ng, ſhortneſs of Breath, di@@ﬃcalty of Breathing, pain or weight in the Brea@, ſpitting of Blood, ſore‐ neſs of the Stomach, Throat, or Windpipe alſo Catarrhs or De‐ ﬂu@ions of ſharp Rheum, and all Pti@ﬁcal and A@hmatick E@ﬀe@s, He@ick Fever, melting Night Sweats and Diarrhaea's or Looſen@ees in a pleaſant and mo@ agreeable Manner.r in the Lungs or in  Part, cauſes free and eaſy Reſpiration or long Breathing, and ſpeedily and infallibly cures ASTHMA'S and all ſorts of Conſump‐ tions, be they ever ſo bad, without the lea@ Diſorder, Trouble, or Con@nement and is indeed the only true Remedy that can be ſurely depended upon for the intire Cure of theſe Maladies. Nor can the whole Materia Medica a@ﬀord a quicker, or more cer‐ tain Cure for common Coughs and Colds but the great Chara@er this mo@  ju@ly gained for the dire@ and infallible Cure of Conſumptions, A@hma's, c. has occa@on'd many Attempts to counterfeit it be careful therefore to have the Right which is to be had only at Mr. Radford's Toyſhop, at the Roſe and Crown again@ St. Clement's Church‐yard in the Strand, at 3 s. 6 d. a Bottle with Direions, and at no other Place in England. When Our Lord Falls in Our Lady's Lap, England Beware of a Great MISHAP.  pleaſant to take, are cordial to the Stomach, pro-  a good Dige@ion, beyond any  in t@@he @@@World. And are to be had only at Mr. Radford's Toy‐ſhop, at the Roſe and Crown agai@n St. Clement's Church- yard in the Strand, at Five Shillings a Bottle with Dire@ions. For the EYES. The ſo much Fam'd CHYMICAL LI@QU@O@R, Which at once infallibly cures all   E@Y@ES, De‐ u@ions of ſharp Humours, Dimneſs of Sight, Specks, Films, or beginning Catara@s and that after all other Means have fail'd, and without cau@ng the lea@ Trouble or  u@@ng. It direly heals and cures all Manner of Soreneſs of the @Eyes i@n Children or grown Perſons, tho' of many Years @anding, be it e- ther of the dry, itching and ſmarting Kind, or moi@, rheumy, or watering, and whether proceeding from the Evil or any other Diſ- temper. It e@ﬀe@ually takes away all Specks, Films, or incipient Catara@s to Admiration, as alſo all Flies, or Gnats that ſeem to ſw@im before the Sight it wonderfully @rengthens the Optick Nerves, comforts the Eyes, immediately removes all Dazzling and Dimneſs, clearing the Sight, and infallibly preſerving it @rong and good to exceeding old Age. Hundreds who were ſo very dim@‐ghted for ſome Years, as ſcarcely able to di@inguiſh any Thing, and imagined their Age to be the Oc- on, have been perfe@ly and almo@ i@nantly cured by it, ſo as to read the ſmall@e Print without Spe@acleses and for Opthalmicks, or fore, bloodſhot and rheumy Eyes, no Medicine on Earth can come @car it Thouſands of Men, Women and Children have been cured by it of the very wor@ ſort almo@ upon the Spot, and Blindneſs been prevented in Abundance, who had try'd all other Remedies in vain inſomuch that it may be almo@ accounted a miraculous Remedy. No Family ought to be without it, nor ever will, after they have had but one Day's Experience of its admirable E@@cacy. It is to be had only, by the Author's Appointment, at the Gen- ewoman's, at the Two Blue @Pos in Haydon‐Yard  Mino- es London, at 3 s. 6 d. a Bottle with  more, In which,@@ Ea@er has Fallen on L@ady Day, as it does @in This, Preſent Year 1744. And which Yea@rs, have been Always looked upon as @Omi@nous Ones, and therefore, have Occa- oned Another Proverbial Saying. When Eaer ſalis on Lady Day, Beware then England, of a FRAY. Now, Sayings Never come to @be Proverbs, but from @a Long Experience of their Truths, Since therefore, this Preſent Year 1744, is thus One of the Ominous Years, it has Occa@ﬁoned the Lo@oking 900 Years Back that are P@a, and Examining what Calamities, particular from Other Years, have been Obſerved to have happened in Thoſe Years, that have been the Ominous One. Now, @@Here are ſhewed the 21 @Sorrowful Miſhaps, and Calamities, which have happened to England in thoſe Above- mention'd 21 Ominous Years of Ea@er's @Falling on Lady Day. Alſo, is  @@@Shw'd. Without being Any Great Con- jurer that We @@may Ti@mely Beware of it, and be upon our Guard again@ it, to keep it OF@F.@-For,-Fore Warn'd, Fore‐Arm'd. WHAT the @Gre Miſhap IS. Which England is to be Aware of, and which We are Threatned Hard with at This Time, Unhappily to Befall Us, in this Preſent Year 1744.@@ Which is Another Such OMINOUS Year, alſo  Ea@er Falling on Lady Day. And England will @ot Fa@ly Forget King Charles I. be- ing Beheaded, and the Troubles in 1@649, Which was ONE of the O@ne and @Twenty Ominous Years ju@ now Mentioned. As well as the Great PL@AGUE, in Another alſo of thoſe One and Twenty Ominous Years. @Tis GIVEN GRA@TIS, In the Parlour, Strait Forward Facing the Entry, At Dr. Ru@ﬀel's Houſe In at the Green Harch, Over agai@n Gray's Inn in Holbor@n.-@Where, Is alſo @, The Venereal, and GLLET Patient's DIRECTOR@ Printed for W. W@A@RD, at the Black Lion in Ruel‐Street, Covent‐Garden @@where Advertiſements, and Letters to the Author Po@ paid are taken in.
 whether Carpenter had any e@ﬀects, the police o@@ﬃcer said he would@ not give 5s. for all he had in the house he had @no bed, the family laid on some straw, and that there was a bit of a table in the house. The clerk said a distress warrant must issue, as Carpenter was not present, and if he had not goods to realize the amount, then the o@@ﬃcer would return the warrant as such, and his Carpenter's commitment would then be issued. We were informed that Carpenter has two children, and that his wife is in a very far advanced state of pregnancy. POLICE.  Hill, a private of the 67th Regiment, now in Dublin, was brought up for examination relative to the confession which he had made that he was the murderer of Eliza Grimwood.-Inspector Field, of the London police, who had been sent over to Dublin to take charge of the prisoner, stated that  Hanging-ditch, professionally engaged in the orchestra as principal tenor violin, crossing to resume his place in the@ orchestra, when the accident occurred, was by some means thrown down, and his left leg received a very serious com-pound fracture a little above the ancle. He is in a very precarious condition.  very serious accident occurred to Sir John Mordaunt on the 2nd inst., on his estate at Walton, near Warwick. He was out shooting with a party of friends on the above day, when the gun of a gentleman named Mills, which he was trailing along the ground, accidentally went o@ﬀ, and the contents of both barrels lodged in the legs of Sir John, who was at a short distance.  the night of the 2nd inst. the inhabitants of the village of Aberdare, who have hardly had su@@ﬃcient time to recover from the excite-ment produced by the late dreadful catastrophe, were thrown into a state of great consternation by an explosion in  violent concussion of air consequent upon the explosion   that he was the man who mur-dered Eliza Grimwood.-Mr Traill asked the prisoner if he still adhered to the truth of that statement. The pri-soner replied that the confession was made when he was under the in@ﬂuence of liquor, being heartily sick and tired of the army, thinking it was the only and best mode to obtain his dismissal. He was now willing to tell the whole truth, and retracted the words he used as to being a mur-derer. His object in making the self-accusation arose from his abhorrence to the life of a soldier, and not long before he had su@ﬀered six months' imprisonment for an act which he committed in the expectation of getting out of the army.-Inspector Field said that he had ascertained the prisoner was tried in Dublin for stealing a watch, and con-victed of the o@ﬀence, and sentenced to six months' impri-sonment. That the prisoner bore a very indi@ﬀerent cha-racter in the regiment, although he was considered a young man of superior attainments, and spoke the French and Italian languages @ﬂuently, and that Colonel Bunbury, the commanding o@@ﬃcer, had given him every encouragement, and promoted him to the rank of corporal before he had been long in the regiment, but that owing to his misconduct he was again reduced to the ranks.-Mr Traill said that he should remand the prisoner until Inspector Field had made a searching inquiry into his prisoner's habits, where he had been living at the time of the murder of Eliza Grim-wood, and other requisite information, in order that the real truth might be ascertained.-The prisoner was then removed from the bar, and will be brought up again this day. THE  Saturday last, at Clerken-well, Edmund Thomas Yeakell and Charles Lander, whose cases have been fully detailed, were again brought before Mr Greenwood, and @ﬁnally committed for trial.  Maynard, the house agent, was brought up at Guild-hall yesterday on the additional charge of bigamy.  andcasioned in consequence of some of the workmen having, contrary to the positive instructions of the master, got an underground door placed in some por-tion of the colliery, which had the e@ﬀect of obstructing a current of air. There were happily not more than @ﬁve men in the pit at the time of the explosion, three of whom were dreadfully scorched they are, however, likely to recover.  accident happened on the Midland Railway on Friday last, within six miles of Nottingham. At the Long Eaton station there is a slight curve, which prevents a person seeing any great distance either up or down the line, and at the time of the train, which left Derby at ten minutes past nine a.m., nearing the station at Eaton, two horses, drawing an empty cart, happened to be crossing the line from an occu-pation road unfortunately the boy having care of the horses could not see the train till it was close upon him, nor could the engineer see the horses, consequently the engine dashed suddenly upon the two horses, forcing the leader into the air as high as the engine chimney, and carrying the other along the line, the gearing being caught by a bu@ﬀer, for thirty or forty yards, till the engine was stopped. Both animals were killed upon the spot, but happily the passen-gers escaped unhurt, and were not aware of any accident having occurred till the train had ceased running. The lad, aged fourteen, on seeing the danger he was in, instantly ran to the hedge-side, and fell into a ditch, and thus pre-served himself from injury.  Monday morning, as the seven o'clock mixed train from Brighton was approaching the Clayton tunnel slowly, in consequence of the slippery state of the rails from the fog, a pilot engine, proceeding to its usual station at Horley, came up with the train, and struck the last carriage, a third class, which was unhooked from the train. The passengers in that carriage  so severely and dangerously injured, hopes are entertained of his recovery. The two females escaped without the slightest injury.@ an@d ot@hers sustained some bruises. No injury accrued  also swore he was a witness, and present at the marriage in 18 1822. He saw the prisoner sign his name to the  evidence was gone into to complete the case, and the prisoner was committed on that charge.  Italian, named Alex. Corradini, was brought up at Bow street on  with attempting to assassinate Mr Thomas @@dance with a custom which provides that all  @be appointed to the charge of luggage trains as an  a lady and gentleman who returned to Brighton, were brought forward to their respective destinations in safety.  accident took place on this line on Thursday the friend, but abused the con@ﬁdence reposed in him by not only paying much attention to his wife in his absence, but also attempting to seduce her from her home. The com-plainant had occasion to absent himself from town for the purpose of superintending the funeral of an aged parent for a few days, and on his return to town he found, from inform-ation he had obtained from his domestics, that his wile, who had been infatuated with the prisoner, had packed  Glasgow at eleven o'clock on Wednesday night. The train reached Linlithgow in safety, where one of the trucks was to be left, and for the sake of convenience it was the last in the train. It was in connexion with this particular truck that Macklin lost his life, but as no person saw the accident, the particulars of it cannot be given with certainty@@@@.@@ From the position, however, in which the body was found,   paramour to Germany. He had represented  paramour to Germany. He had represented himself  baron, and that she should become a lady of title, and  instantly  the line to the shedding near the Archcli@ﬀe tunnel. The  in the greatest state of alarm. Several witnesses con@ﬁrmed this statement by evidence. As the defendant would not, or could not, un-derstand English, the evidence was translated to him. He also conversed with the magistrate in German, declaring that he had no knife about him, and that the complainant struck him @ﬁrst with the poker from feelings of jealousy. He displayed considerable warmth in the dock at times, and, looking furiously at Mr Smith, muttered something that was not clearly understood. Failing to produce the required bail for his appearance at the sessions, Mr Jardine committed him to prison. ACCIDENTS, OFFENCES, OCCURRENCES.  the recent musical per-formances at the Philharmonic Institute in this town, shortly before the commencement of the second part, after some of the choir had returned to their places on the plat-form, a loud crash was heard behind the scenes, and great shrieking, together with the noise of falling bodies. The accident consisted in the giving way of the planks or rafters supporting a dressing room, in which a great num-ber of the male chorus were congregated, taking refresh-ment. The weight being greater than the beams could support, they gave way, and @ﬁfty or sixty persons were at once precipitated to the stage, a fall of about twelve feet. It is wonderful that an occurrence so alarming should have been attended with so little serious injury. Only one per-son was much hurt, and he was conveyed at once to the  @@have his injuries examined. This was Mr  the engine passing through the tunnel he imprudently jumped on the step, and was literally jammed against the wall. On the engine emerging from the tunnel the unfortunate crea-ture was discovered quite dead, having evidently been killed instantaneously.  Thursday week one of the most providential escapes, as regards human life, occurred on the railway connected with the Bishop-wearmouth iron works. The iron works in question extend over a vast extent of country, and, for the purpose of a speedy transit from one part to the other, railways have been established, one of which is formed on an inclined plane, down which the heavily laden waggons are propelled at a fearful rate. On the morning of the above day, while one of the train of waggons was passing down, two very old women, each being nearly seventy years of age, labour-ing under defective sight as well as hearing, got on the line. A few seconds more they both must have inevitably been crushed to death. Their perilous situation was, how-ever, witnessed by Mr David Holsgrove, the overlooker of the works, who in an instant dashed forward and seized the two females, whom he threw o@ﬀ the line, and out of the way of danger. Unfortunately the engine at this instant came up, which knocked Mr Holsgrove down, and he was picked up as dead. He was instantly conveyed to one of the buildings in the vicinity, and medical aid was sent for, when, upon examination, it was discovered that he had sustained several contusions about the head, that both his  was opened before the deputy-coroner for Middlesex, on the body of a young man who committed suicide in a house of ill-fame, under somewhat extraordi-nary circumstances. A woman of the town, named Harriet Mayne, was the principal witness. She deposed to having met the deceased on the night of Tuesday, the 2nd inst., at a concert at the Garrick's Head, in Bow street, where she had part of a pint of sherry with him and a friend of his. About three o'clock on Wednesday morning the deceased accompanied her to her lodgings in Aldenham street, and remained in bed till two o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, when she invited him to have some breakfast, but he re-fused, and said he would rather have a glass of wine. He gave witness half-a-crown to send for a pint of sherry, and on her calling Margaret Bryan, the landlady's daughter to go for it, deceased added, Stay, I will send for some-thing else that will do me good. Deceased then asked for a pen and ink, and wrote a prescription in Latin, telling her to send it to some chemist, giving her 2s. to procure it. Margaret Bryan went to the shop of Mr Wake@ﬁeld, and on her return with the wine, said that Mr Wake@ﬁeld said he had not got any, and that it was poison. Witness told de-ceased, who said, Nonsense, it is no such thing it is only to enliven up low spirits. Send to another doctor. Mar garet Bryan then went to the shop of Mr Rentmore, in Cla-rendon square, and brought back a phial about three parts full of stu@ﬀ smelling like almonds. Deceased was then lying on the sofa in the parlour, and appeared very cheer-ful. Witness left him to get her breakfast, leaving the phial and the wine on the table. She returned in about @ﬁve minutes and, on entering the room, asked deceased how he was. He replied, he felt better, but his stomach began to pain him at that moment he turned over on the sofa and appeared fainting, and made a gurgling noise in the throat. She called for water, and then sent for a doctor. Mr Wake@ﬁeld came, and said he was dead, and had taken poison.-By the Coroner I had never seen the deceased before. I had not the slightest idea that he had sent for poison, and I intended to have taken a portion of what he sent for had he left any, as he said it was for low spirits. I should say he was not more than twenty years of age. When alive he appeared of rather sallow complexion, and has dark-brown hair. His dress consists of a black frock coat, black satin waistcoat, lavender-coloured striped trou-sers with straps, the whole quite new, a blue striped silk neckerchief, white stockings, yellow kid goves, and short boots, a new hat, maker's name Townend, Cheapside and Regent street. He had with him a small yellow stick, with the handle much bitten, and his linen was marked G. Old@ﬁeld, jun. On his person were found two hand-kerchiefs, one white muslin, with the name G. Old@ﬁeld on it, the other silk a cigar-case, a green purse studded with steel beads and tassle, with 2s. in it, and on his @ﬁnger a gold ring with a green stone. Deceased did not give witness any other money than for the wine and for the stu@ﬀ. Margaret Bryan proved having gone with the pre-scription @ﬁrst to the shop of Mr Wake@ﬁeld, and then to that of Mr Rentmore, where she procured the stu@ﬀ for deceased, and paid 1s. 9d. for it, and that she was served by a young man, Mr Rentmore's brother. The witness having identi@ﬁed the prescription, the deputy-coroner said it was in Latin, and was half an ounce hydrocyanic acid, and at the bottom was written for @ﬂavouring soups, and it was signed G. O. Mr Wake@ﬁeld proved that when he was called to see deceased he was quite dead. The deputy-coroner animadverted on any chemist selling so large a quantity of poison to a stranger, and called upon Mr Rentmore for an explanation. Mr Rentmore, jun., who served it, said he understood that the girl who fetched the poison came from the pastrycook in Seymour street, and knowing oil of almonds was used in that trade, he served it. The deputy-coroner said the circumstances of the case were so strange, although there was no reason to believe that the witness Mayne had connived at the de-ceased poisoning himself, that he felt it necessary to adjourn the inquiry for further evidence, and to have the body opened. The inquiry was ultimately adjourned till Mon-day last, and after the post-mortem examination, the body was removed to St Pancras workhouse for iden-ti@ﬁcation.-On Monday the inquest was resumed. Mrs Emily Old@ﬁeld, the wife of Mr Old@ﬁeld, rope-maker, Southgate road, Balls pond, Islington, stated that the deceased was her son, and that he was warehouse clerk in the employ of Messrs Warwick and Sons, wholesale druggists, Garlick hill. On the morning of the 2nd inst. he left home for his o@@ﬃce, and told witness that he would go with some friends to Gravesend that day. She gave him 8s. 6d., but did not know what other money he had. She never afterwards saw him alive. Her impression was, that he had been drugged in the house in Aldenham street, and then murdered. The coroner assured Mrs Old@ﬁeld that both he and the jury were fully convinced, by the evidence given on the @ﬁrst day, that her son had not been drugged. On the contrary, they felt that the circumstance was unfor-tunate for all parties, and that every attention had been paid to him. Mr Rentmore, brother and assistant to Mr Rentmore, surgeon, said that he sold to the servant of the house in Aldenham street, half an ounce of the essential oil of almonds in an ounce and a half bottle. He imagined that it was required by a soap-maker or a pastry-cook. It was usual with druggists to sell as much as an ounce of it to persons in those trades. The bottle was not labelled. Mr G. Wake@ﬁeld, surgeon, examined the body, which gave evidence of the destructive presence of prussic acid, which, no doubt, was the cause of death. The quantity sold de-ceased was su@@ﬃcient to kill four persons. The jury, after half an hour's deliberation, returned a verdict, That George Old@ﬁeld, jun., died by taking the essential oil of almonds with his own hands, but that there was no evidenc of his state of mind at the time that he took it. The jury accompanied the verdict with a censure on Mr Rentmore, jun., for having so incautiously sold the poison.  Hall, of the @ﬁrm of W. J. Hall and Co., of the Custom house quay, waited upon the Lord Mayor at the Mansion house, on Monday, to make a com-munication to his lordship relative to the suicide of a gen-tleman on his passage from Hull to London, in a steam vessel. It appeared that on last Saturday afternoon, when the William Darley steam vessel was on her passage from Hull to London, a gentleman, best cabin passenger, jumped overboard, near the lower middle buoy, abreast the Shears, and was drowned. The moment Capt. Turner saw the 
 stick, which @Mr. Budgeon  with @his umbrella. The man at the horse's head then cried out in @a violent manner to shoot him, upon which the villain at the chaise discharged the pistol at Mr. B. and two shots passed through his hat. T@he discharge of the pistol caused the horse to take fright, and run o@ﬀ furiously , but Mr. B. retaining command over the animal, he escaped without injury. Oa Sunday morning last a dreadful ﬁre broke out in the house of the Hon. Admiral@ Cornwallis, at Newlands, near L@ymington, Hants, which for some time threatened destruction to the whole buildings but from the timely assistance of the @ﬁremen and engines from Lymington,@ it was happily got under, after destroying the @main house a@nd furniture. Too much praise cannot @be given to the inhabitant@s of Lymington for their ready assistance in getting the @ﬁre under, particularly to a Mr. Colborne, @builder and surveyor of that place, f@@or his very great exer- tions@, w@ith a few men, in cutting@ away part of the roof and @ﬂoor of the  o@n @ﬁre, which prevented the @ﬁre from destroying the whole of the o@@ﬃces,  On  se'nnight the f@ollowing shocking circumstance occurred in Sandgate, in Newcastle.@ A young woman, slee@pin@ an infant child, a woke early in the morning, a@@nd @@missed the child out of the bed. On searching the room, she  @had fallen from the bed into a tub of water@, which had @been left near it, and was drowned. The shrieks@ of the young woman on discovering this me- lancholy@ event, alarmed the @@neighbours@, who, instead of@@ end@eavouri@ng to@ quiet her perturbed mind, began to charge her with carelessness, @@c.@ This, added to the anticipated re@ﬂect@ions of the mother who was then at Shields ope- rated so powerfully o@n the young woman's feelings, that she rushed out of the house, and, in a @ﬁt of@ frenzy, pre- cipitated herself into the river,@ where she was drowned @before any assistance could be a@ﬀurded. The young wo@- man was the@ child's aunt, and sister@ to the S LONDON GAZETTE.  Dec. 17. Copy of a Letter transmitted to Rear‐Admiral Sir Edward Pelle@w,@ Bart. Com@mander i@n Chief of his Majesty's Ships @and Vessels in the East Indies, to the @@Hon. W. W.  Majesty's Ship St. Fiorenzo,o, @SIR, ‐ at Sea, 9th @March. It w@ith regret I have to inform you of the death of Capt. @Hardinge, late of his Majesty's ship St. Fiorenzo, who fell gloriously in the early part of an action on the 8th inst. between his Majesty's ship St. Fiorenzo and the  La Piedm@ontaise. The St. Fio- renze sailed from Point @de Galle on Friday the 4th inst. at half‐past eleven, A. M. @On the 6th, at seven, A. M. passed three Indiam@en, and shortly after saw a frigate bearing N. E. We immediately h@auled our wind in chase, and made all sail, being at that time in lat. 7. 32. long. 77. 58. We made the private signal, which was not answered @and at @ﬁve she@wed our colours, which t@he ene-  took@ no notice of. At 40 minutes past eleven, P. @M. w@e ranged alongside of him on the larboard tack, and re-@ ceived his broadside. Aft@er engaging till @50 minutes past eleven P. M. within cable's length,@ the enemy made sail a‐he@@ad, out of the range of our shot @@we ceased @ﬁring and made all sail after him@@@ continuing to come up with him till daylight, when @ﬁnding be could not avoid an action, @he @ware, as did we also. At 25 @minutes past six recom- menced the .action @at the distance of half a mile, gradual- ly closing with him ten quarter of a mile. The @ﬁre was  spring‐stay, and most of the standing and running rigging, and all our sails shot to pieces, and most of our cartridges @ﬁred away is our guns were directed at his hull @he was not much disabled about hi@s rigging , we ceased @ﬁring, and employed all hands in repairing the damages sustained and @ﬁtting the ship again for action. From the great in- jury our masts, yards, and sails had received, I am sorry to observe that it was not in our power to chase to renew the actio@n immediately we, however, succeeded in keep- ing sight of him during the night and at nine A. M. on the 8th, the ship being perfectly prepared for action, we bore down upon the enemy under all sail he did not en- deavour to avoid us till we hauled athwart his stern, for the purpose of gaining the weather gage, and bringing him to close @@ﬁght, when he hauled up also, and ma@de all sail but perceiving that we came fast up with him, and that an action was inevitable, he tacked, and at three we passed each other at opposite tack@, and recommenced action w@ithin a quarter of a cable's length. With grief I have t@o observe that our brave Captain was killed by a grape‐shot the second broadside.@ When the e@nemy was abaft our beam @he wore, and after an hour and 20 minutes close action, struck their colours, and waved their hats for a boat to be sent them. She proved to be L@a@ Pied- montaise, commanded by Mons. Epron, Capitaine de Vaisseaux she mounts 50 guns, long 18 pounders on her main deck, and 36‐pounder carronades on her quarter- deck. @She had 360 Frenchmen @on board, and nearly 20@0 Lascars@, who worked their sails. Sh@e sailed from the Isle of @@e the 30th December. In the action she had 48 killed and 112 wounded. The St. Fiorenza has 13 killed and 25 wounded most o@f the latter are @in a most promising way. A list of them I have the honour to inclose for your information. The enemy was cut to pieces in hi@s masts, bowsprit, and rigging, and they all went by the board during the night. I@@t is @now a pleasing part of my duty to recommend to your particular notice the cool, steady, and gallant co@n- duct of Lieutenants Edward Davies and Henry George Moysey the latter, I am sorry to say@, was severely wounded about ten minutes before the enemy struck. I also experi@@ence@d very great assistance from Mr. Donovan, the Master, by the judicious and seaman‐like manner in which he laid us close alongside the e@nemy. To Lieute- nant Samuel Ashmore, of the Royal Marines, I am much indebted, for the cool and determined courage evinced by him through the whole action. Indeed every O@@ﬃcer, Petty O@@ﬃcer, Seaman, and Marine in@ the ship, behaved in the most brave and gallant manner, and nobly main- tained the pre‐eminence of the British @ﬂag. In the ﬁrst boat from the prize came Mr. @W. F. Black, A@ss@ of his Majesty's 86th regiment, captured by the Piedmontaise, on her passage to Madras, who ren@- de@red the Surgeon great assistance. I am also much in- debted to  of the Army, and the Cap@tains and @Oﬃcer@ of the country ships, who were prisoners on board t@he enemy, for the great assistance they a@ﬀorded us with their Lascars, in erecting jury masts, and working the ship into port, as from our weak state, and the great number of prisoners on board us, we could spare but fe@w hands from our our ship to send on board the prize. I have the honour to be,  To Sir Edward   of O@@cer@, Seaman, and Marines, killed and @@@@@@@Wounded on the 6th.-Wm. Pirt, John Treacy, W@m. Miller, seamen@@@@. @Kill@ed on th@e 7th.-T@homas Martin, @Charles Small- wood, Robert Onrrell, Jo@@hn Middleton, William Mead, seamea@@ @Willia@m Martin, John Lu@ﬀ, Joseph Litch@ﬁeld,  on the 7th.-John Meadows, since dead @Wm. Baldwin, sines dead Goerge Byng, John Finc
 upwards of 4,000,000f.,@which successively absorbed the funds which the sinking fund left free these grants,  increase, have at length exceeded the pre-  the annual revenue. In short, we have to meet extraordinary expenses, which were without doubt odified by events, or by the resolutions of the chambers, t which oblige us in the present state of things, to clude in our calculation a deficit which, though reduced  the combination of a special law for the War and arine @Department, still amounts to 500 millions. We must  on civil pensions for 61,728 francs, and on the military pensions, for 1,350,000 francs, will be  one ha@s for cause the pensions of the em- ployes of the former, regie of the salt works of the East, the which must be classed amongst the pensions on the state, in consequence of the cancelling of the lease of the company. The other results from a more exact appreciation of the sum nec@essary for the payment of military pensions to grant yearly. It was only customary to carry the nominal credit of inscrip-@ tion to the budget, without keeping an account of the propo- sitions which completed the immediate calls of the service@@ it resulted there from to claim each year's supplementary allot@ments, which will be avoided henceforth by a more ex- act calculation, which we submit to you. We ask for the subvention to the caisse des retraites of the department of Finance a credit of 7,767,000f., representing the insufficiency of its resources in 1842. The developments in support of the budget justify his want of that allotment you will find an exact appreciation of the probable extinctions and con- cessions claimed by the necessities of the service. An ar- ticle of the law expenses fixes besides the credit of inscription at the sum of 1,040,000f. which does not exceed more than 90,000f. the nominal cipher of annual concessions. @That temporary supplement, with the 280,000f., added to the credit demanded for 1841, will cause the inscription in arrears brought up to the 31st of December, 1840, and resulting from the re- strictive disposition of the law of the 12th April preceding. The endowments, forming the said part of the budget, are carried to 16,225,100 francs that is, 253,000 francs less in 1841. That result is the sequence of the reduction which the subvention allowed to the Legion of Honour experiences, the which decreases from year to year, in proportion to the@@ extinctions. The budget of justice offers an increase of 7,050@f which results from supple@mentary allo@tments  @@for 32,800f. and compensated by reductions to the sum of@@ 25,250f. The increase is carried to the expenses of the mat@eriel of the Council of @State, on the salary of the Vice-@ President, and on the expenses of the Tribunals of @@the First instance, which are increased by the re-@ cent adjunction to the Tribunal of the Seine of four supplementary Judges and four sworn clerks. The diminution arises from the extinction of seven posts of auditors, and by the retrenchment of 20,000 francs, which the situation of the caisse @des retraites of justice allows to be effected on the subvention which it enjoys. The expense of public worship is increased also by the sum of 226,787 francs the following ate the causes.-185,000@@f. must be added to the salaries and indemnation of the parochial clergy by the replacing of the old eccle-@  suit of the cited   and means. Now, @would it not be a folly to reckon on an overplus of receipts when we see them yearly exceeded by our expenditure? You must o rema@rk that the adjudication of loans was indicated by the aw of 1837, as a subsidiary resource, and allow us to add, with the hope that it would never be employed. It is then beyond oubt that the system of the law of 17th May, reposes en- irely on the resource of the sinking fund. A short time ago, gentlemen, the Five per Cents. were so near par that were o@n the point of seeing the accumulation of the re- sources at an end. Had this taken place, the sinking fund, nstead of being of any assistance to the Treasury, would have added to its embarrassment for it would have become necessary to borrow for the purpose of reimbursing non- consolidated funds previously absorbed. It would have become necessary to borrow to continue the works already commenced, and which could not be stopped suddenly, and lse to borrow to meet the still more imperious necessities rising from circumstances. In presence of such eventualities, man of foresight must have inquired  it were possible to continue to contract cer- in engagements founded on uncertain resources. Evi- dently the system established by the law of May 17, 1837, must c@hange with circumstances. We consequently sub- mit to yo@u two propositions-one to affect from 1842 the re- erve of the sinking fund, to the extension of the depo- its of the years 1@840, 1841, and 1842 the other to uthorise a loan of 450,000,000f. to meet the expenses of the public works belonging to the War and Ma- e departments. An especial project of law will be laid bef@ore@ you shortly, dividing the total expense of the work@s on a series of years, and fixing for each year a limit not to be exceeded. We have already announced   Instruction. It is, in reality, but 113,362f. The surplus of 264,800f. represents expenses covered by equivalent receipts, but are@@ the expenses of prima@ry schools, and schools of pharmacy @@united to the university by the royal ordonnanes of@@ September, 1840. A sum of 113,362f. is destined to remunerate a ninth councillor of the university, and cer- tain professors of the Normal Sch@ool and College de France, as well as t@@wo royal colleges, with the exception of 4,000f. for the commissioners of police of Ham. The home budget presents but di@minutions to the amount of 74,978@f. owing to the cessation of the rent of the Telegraph Hotel. The Home Minister demands that the union to refugees be resisted in the list of services voted. The Mi- nister of Agriculture and Commerce demands an augmen- tation of 51,799f. for the establishment of Vicby but this will be covered by the increase of revenue. The plans for finishing works of public utility, which we have laid before you, bring back the budget of the Minister of Public Works to its usual proportions but after the passing of the special law, which will shortly be presented to you, the cost of the extraordinary works which shall be authorised for the year 1842 will be included in the Budget of that department, of which it will form a distinct section. The amount required for 1842 shows an increase of 318,000f, composed of 28,200f on the central administration, of 160,000f  the sala@r@ies of the department of roads, bridges, and mines, of 130,000f for in- ternal waterways and the superintendence of railways. On the other hand the expense is decreased to the amount of the special credits for finishing the works at the Luxemburg and the Hotel Mole. It is expected these works will be c@omplete in 1841, and that there will be no need of a farther allowance. The charg@es of the War Department for 1842 are estimated at 364,718,391f., of which 49,028,274f. are for our possessions in Africa. T@hese estimates exceed by 113,177,610f. the credits originally opened for the budget of 1841 but, when compared to the spe- cial laws of supplementary credits recently presented, it will be seen that, keeping up the same effective, the budget of 1842 is less by 53,238,000f. to that of 1840, and by 21,718,000f. to that of 1841. The credit of 361,000,000f. is the consequence of a temporary situation it, however, cannot be conceal@ed that, under the most favourable hypothesis, the  applying@ a  this there are but two modes-reduce expanses or aug- me@nt revenue. The r@eduction of expenses has with us ever produced little effect, and failed in its aim. The reports of commissions attest it. It is only in increasing the budget that we can bring revenue on a level with expenditure. Yet we do not propose new taxes, nor yet the augmentation of tariffs. There is something first to be tried. Our contributive system, in my opinion, ought to suffice for the permanent wants of the country. But among our fiscal laws, some ought to be adapted to the changes in our social state. There are some which have been relaxed@ an@d hence voids and inequalities, which offen@d public morals and equity as much as the interests of the Treasury. We present measures herewith to strengthen the receipt of taxes and generalise the application of them. We shall immediately ask for a new law to ensure the col- lection of the stamp-@duty, and other taxes of the kind. It is time to remind citizens of a social duty, too little respected. No one has a right to treat taxation as an enemy it ought not to be eluded, but submitted to. In enumerating the different branches of the revenue, I shall be obliged to speak of reform and ameliorations. The sum of direct contribution for 1842 is estimated at 396,054,@610f.@, of which 28@6,030,110f. are applied to the ge- neral services of the budget,and 110,024,500f. to departmental and parochial expense@. The 5,377,800@f. or excess, which this estimation shows, compared with the budget of 1841, may be divided into two equal parts of which one, resulting from the increase of the taxes and patent payers, is added to the profit of the general fund, and the other, representing the augmentation in depart- mental and local taxation, must be omitted in that specifi- cation. As to indirect taxes, we must take our estimates from the most recent facts and returns. The duties on registry have produced, in 1840, 192,845,400f., 6,000,000f, more than the preceding year. Taking this re- sult for the basis of our valuations, we are confident that the progress of industry and commerce will cause this branch of our revenue to increase and prosper. We will also pro- pose some ameliorations. A @mode of regulating the duty on the transference of offices will be comprised in the law of recettes for 1842. The law of 1832, has proportioned this tax to the security money, which is indiscreet. The law@ to be proposed will remove this incorrectness and inequality, and im- prove this branch of the public revenue by full 800,000f. The stamp duty gives a revenue disproportioned to the progress of affairs. The increase of this tax is too small, and attests the insufficiency of legislation. The circulation of unstamped bills has resisted penalty and legal prohibition, and a severer system has been re-@ commended by the late Parliamentary Com@mission. By imitating the energetic sanction that a neighbouring nation has given to its Legislature in this respect, an im- por@tant increase of revenue may be secured. A committee is now employed examining this question, and is preparing a law, that will be ready this session. In the meantime we estimate the stamp duty but for the sum of 34,250,080f., the same as the sum which it gave in 1839 A diminution of 635,000f. is provided for by the produce of the domains and of the mobilising objects belonging to the state, valued at 5,044,000f. We shall, however, realise in the course of 1842 a portion of the price of the donsanial salt- mines of the east, which will be for sale so@on after the liquidation of the present exploitation but the receipts will be weakened, on the other hand, by the cessation of accidental causes, and by the alienation all bat entirely consummated of the e@mmeubles and of the available property arising from the former extraordinary domain. The produce of the falls of wood of the state is car- ried in the budget for the sum of 30,342,500f., which it has been valued at for 1841 it is the @mean receipt of the years 1836, 1837, and 1838, which have been generally favourable to the trade of wood. Notwith- standing the fall occasioned in 1839 by the bad working of the forges, the administration estimates that by @means of the amelioration of the routes forestieres, and by the as- sistance of the conservators of the sales, it will obtain the receipt intended. Respecting the mean produce of the forests, and the right of fishing, the valuation is carried to 2,807,500f. it exceeds by 204,000f. that of last year, and is based on the increase realised in 1838 a@nd 1839, for 319,000f., and compensated up to 115,000f. by some reductions. The actual mode of recovery, for the benefit of the treasury, of the expenses of the administration, of the woods of com- mu@nes, and of the public establishments @has caused nume- rous claims to be @ma@de, and the inconvenience thereof has been detailed at length by your last commission of finance, in its report on ways and means of 1841. The law of 1791, which placed those woods under the same regime as the domnial @laws, attributed to the Treasury, to cover it of the expenses of their administration, a dec@ime by franc on the produce of what is cut and sold, and posterior laws added duties for that cut naturally. In 1827 the project of the Code Forestier proposed the maintenance of that syst@em with some modifications but an amendment to article 106 introduced in that respect an essential alteration, by sub- stituting for the produce of the falls an additional tax to the contribution foucière established on timber, and divided pro rata that contribution. This new mode, which made a tax weigh on certain departments much heavier than the disbursements with which it had to indemnify the Trea- sury, provoked complaints which it was necessary to justify, in the first place, by local enactments, and in short, in 1837, by a legislative disposition which annulled the Code Forestier, by which each department would be taxed no longer with a proportionate contingent, but with the amount of the expenses for the administration of the timber. That syste@m did not engender less claims than the pre- ceding one they arose from localities where the wood ground is less productive, and some of which see the re- venue of their timber entirely absorbed by the expenses of the administration. Your commission of the budget was struck it recommended to the government to make a special study of the basis which ought, for the future, to be adopted for the division of the expenses of the ad- ministration of the timber of communes and of public establishments. T@hat analysis has induced as to ac- knowledge that there exists, at the bottom of ex- perienced systems since 1827, a cause for illegality and complaint, which cannot disappear but by the return to the true principles of the tax. It is in proportion to the revenue that it must be established, and on the revenue itself, as often as it can be appreciated and attained. Wherefore the revenue of ti@mber is exactly represented by the price of the sales, and by the value of the annual deliveries to the @@affsnagister. We propose, consequently, to re-establish t@he annual levé on that produce, as under the regime of the law of 1791, but by reducing it to a twentieth, instead of a  belong to them. Gentlemen, you now know the whole of our  situation You have under your eyes a complete @picture of our wants, and the resources we have prepared to meet them. The views which we now sub@mit may be summed up in a few words. The Government believes in place, and because it so be- lieves, it does not ask of you to stop the progress given, for some years, to the works of peace. In this view we make an appeal to credit-the resources which we ask, in waiting till their normal destination be accomplished, will yield to the treasury a temporary assistance@ and aid in bearing the weights of our deficits, which will be covered by degrees by the consolidation of the successive reserves of the Sinking Fund. It is by taxes that we provide for the expenses of our civil and military state, increased by the accidental charges imposed on us by the political situation of Europe. But is order that these taxes be sufficient, it is necessary to fortify them by divers measures, which we wi@ll submit successively to your sanction, and which, in suppressing fraud and generalising further the benefit of proportional equa- lity, will assure to the treasury most abundant results. The financial system of the government should be the faithful expression of its political system. The budget, which we present to you, has been conceived in the spirit of peace and the preservation of peace, which I and my colleagues have accepted in taking upon us the re- sponsibility of affairs. This task, gentlemen, we would have declined, if we had not the intimate con- viction that a good understanding between the great Powers of Europe might be confirmed and maintained on conditions honourable and sure to our country. If our con- fidence is not ill-founded, a little time and a few efforts will auffice to replace in our budgets a durable equilibrium, and restore the prosperity of our finances. That, gentlemen@ is necessary to enable France to maintain its elevated rank among   new ar- rangements relative to the keepers and the distribution of venison from the Royal Parks, appear in the annual re- port for 1840 of the Commissioners of Woods and Forests, which is just published Various complaints having been made both as to the quality and supply of the veni- son from the royal forests and parks by the parties who have hitherto, with the sanction of the SOVEREIGN, been permitted to receive the same, we received direc- tions from the Lords Commissioners of her MAJESTY'S Treasury to make inquiries into the supply and distribu- tion of the venision from each of the royal forests and parks, and to advise their lordships as to the measures which should appear to us to be the best adapted to remedy the evils complained of. The result of these inquiries was such as to induce their lordships to sub- mit to her MAJESTY the expediency of placing the whole supply, including that for the royal table, under the supervision and direction of this board that the keepers should not be allowed to receive the fees and perquisites which heretofore had made a considerable portion of their income, but that they should be paid annual fixed salaries that they should be restricted in the keep of cattle in the parks to one or two cows, and to a sufficient number of horses only for the proper exe- cution of their duties, to which they should devote their whole time and attention and that they should send to the parties having her MAJESTY'S venison the whole buck or doe, except the head, skin, and offal. Her MAJESTY,was graciously pleased to signify her ap- proval of these arrangements, and we were authorised by the Lords Commissioners of her MAJESTY'S Treasury to carry the same into effect. For that purpose it has been found necessary, under the sanction of the Lords Com- missioners of her MAJESTY'S Treasury, to discon- tinue the services of some of the old keepers, and to award them superannuation allowances in proportion to their length of service. To Lieu- tenan@t-Colonel CHESTER, who held the office of clerk of the venison warrants, their lordships have sanc- tioned a retired allowance of 150l. per annum and to the gentleman who acted as his deputy, 30l. per annum. A warrant for her MAJESTY'S approbation and signature is prepared at the commencement of every season, which includes the whole supply for the season and warrants to the respective keepers are issued by us to the parties mentioned in the said warrant, on their paying at our office a fee of 1l. 6s. for a buck, and 13s. for a doe and the sums so collected are applied to the payment of the keepers' salaries and the retired allowances. We have reason to believe that this arrangement will not be at- tended with any considerable charge upon the funds of our department, and that it will fully answer the purpose for which it has been put in force.  accidents happened upon this line on Saturday morning last, to the train which leaves Gloucester for Birmingham at eight o'clock in t@he morning, both fortunately unattended by any other consequences to the passengers than delay in both we hear to the American engine@. The first took place soon after the train left the Spetchley station, and, fortunately, before a high velocity was attained. One of the small wheels of the engine broke, to the great alarm of the passengers as well as of the driver and stoker, who jumped off@ t@he engine, and, providentially, escaped without injury. The train was necessarily delayed until another engine was procured from Spetchley. This second engine took the train safely to within some few hundred yards of Camphill Station, where the fire bars, and, consequently, the fire, tumbled out upon the road, leaving the train to be hauled to its destination by some forty or fifty men, after a delay of some hours. We have since learned that another accident fortunately un- attended with injury to life or limb occurred on Monday by the breaking of another of the small wheels. These, we presume, are the engines which the company sent for all the way to Philadelphia, and which, fro@m that circum- stance, it might be imagined, were expected to be of a very superior construction and enduring quality. However, these repeated accidents do not say much in their favour, and would seem to show that Jonathan can get up things on the cheap and nasty system as well as ourselves. It was a pity the company should go to a rival country for engines, which should be after all no  SIR-In all the London papers of the 25th instant, there appeared a report of so@me proceedings at the Lam- beth-street Police-office the day before, in the course of which Mrs. Bailey erroneously called by the reporter Moroner made some extraordinary statements respecting the conduct of individuals said to have called upon her for the purpose of extracting information respecting the death of the late Mrs. L. E. Maclean, and of obtaining from her certain important documents which Mrs. Bailey hinted she hid in her possession. I had previously heard the same tale from Mrs. Bailey herself, and, as the only friend of Mr. Maclean in town, I was engaged, when the above report appeared in the pa- pers, in examining the statement with the care required by the woman's position and past conduct. I was aware that she had been closely questioned, on he@ return home thirteen months ago, as to her knowledge of the circum- stances attending Mrs. Maclean's death@ by the relatives of both Mr. and Mrs. Maclean, and that she had been also rather eagerly canvassed by some other parties, who have wished-I will not venture to conjecture from what motive@-to misrepresent the causes of that lamented event. I also knew that nothing had been elicited from her by the friends or enemies of either party to give the slightest colour to the calumnies put forth on the subject. I felt surprised, therefore, on being told by Mrs. Bailey that renewed inquiries had been made of her under circumstances so extraor- dinary by person, refusing to give their names, and still more surprised at some of the improbable details of her story. Finding, however, that she had brought the matter under the notice of the police, I determined on having the statement thoroughly investigated, and for that purpose applied to the commissioners for their assistance in the matter. Colonel Rowan very promptly and politely ap- pointed Inspector Hughes of the A division to conduct the inquiry-a full report of which is in the hands of the commissioners. I merely inclose the result-an admission on the part of Mrs. Bailey of the entire falsehood of her statements. I hereby declare that the statement which I made to Mr. Norton@ at the Lambeth Police-office, on Thursday last, to the effect that I had been visited by different persons, some of them apparently of distinction, coming in their carriages, and requiring me to give up documents which I alleged to have in my possession, in reference to the death of the late Mrs. Maclean, is entirely unfounded that no such persons called upon me, and that I am pes- sessed of no such documents or papers of importance, but merely the statements of what took place when I arrived. I very sincerely regret having been led by the public ex- citement on this subject to invent these stories. It is true that I embarked with Mrs. Maclean as her person@a servant at Portsmouth, and attended her in that capacity up to the time of her death at Cape Coast Castle but I hereby solemnly declare that I never saw or heard of anything to justify the calumnies which have been circulated against her husband on the subject of @her death. I neither saw nor heard of any ill-treatment, nor do I believe Mr. Maclean capable of any of those things which I have heard laid to his charge by public rumour.  mark my name , E. B. Witnessed the above initials, signed by Mrs. Bailey, in presence of her mother, Mrs. MORONER.   December 31,1840. Inspector A. division. It is singular that the first of the calumnious fables founded on the death of Mrs. Maclean, susceptible of ac- curate examination, should have terminated in so speedy and complete an exposure of the author. Would that the cowardly insinuators who have so deeply wounded the feelings of the unfortunate husband had reduced their stories, even in any one instance, to a form sufficiently tangible to admit of similar analysis and refutation@! I am sorry to add that I have reason to believe that the extraordinary fabrications of Mrs. Bailey are not the last links which remain to be broken of the chain of falsehood by which it has been sought to enthral the character of my friend for the sake of pandering to the public appetite for scandal. But his absence from this country, added to the indefinite nature of the charges against him, have hitherto afforded impunity to his libellers, which it may not be safe for them always to rely upon.-I am, Sir, your obedient servant, M. FORSTER. New City Chambers, Dec. 31, 1840.  Times had two long articles last week on our  their energetic protest against the parties who did this, and the government which abetted them in it. They are entitled to speak boldly, for they stand upon high g@round   able for ignorant blundering and unscrupulous mis-state- @@ments, and well exemplifying the nonsense and absurdity which can be palmed on the people of England respecting Scotch affairs. We shall notice a few of the leading points, and first for blunders -The Times informs us, that there is a certain constitutional newspaper in Edinburgh, which, though zealous in reprobating the general policy of the Whigs, advises its readers to oppose every Par- liamentary candidate who declines to go all lengths in supporting the ultra Non-Intrusionists. We thought we had a tolerable knowledge of the Edinburgh press, but we confess we can discover no such newspaper as the one here described. @There are three papers zealous enough in reprobating the policy of the Whigs, t@he Advertiser, Post, and Standard, but they are equally zealous in repro- bating the policy of the Non-Intrusion party.-There are two papers which advocate the views of the latter party, the Mercury and @Witness, but they are bot@h decided@ friends to the present government. The certain con- stitutional newspaper in Edinburgh@ has no existence, except in the imagination of the omniscient Times! The dissensions in the church are deplored as marring the hopes of the Conservative party, which are now, it seems, brighter than ever in proof of which we are favoured with the following precious morsel of mendacious nonsense - According to our information, there is now sufficient strength in the cities of Perth and Aberdeen, as well as in the district constituencies of Elgin, Inverness, St. An- drews, and Jedburgh, to ensure the return of Conserva- tive members at the next election. From a paragraph which lately appeared in our paper, we also learn, that at a recent dinner at Cheltenham, Major Anderson the Conservative candidate for the Lanark boroughs not only announced his absolute certainty of unseating Mr. Radical Gillon-a statement which the late registrations in that quarter completely confirm, but further declared his conviction, that no fewer than six seats in the south and west of Scotland were at present ready to rid themselves of their several ministerial occupants. We believe this to be strictly true and the seats in question, as we suppose, are  we have also respectfully to request  of your reply by letter, or that you will favour us  ELECTION. Birmingham, Wednesday Night. TO THE INDEPENDENT ELECTORS OF THE  Gentlemen-When I had the honour of first address- ing you, offering myself a candidate to represent this borough in the Commons' House of Parliament, I calcu- lated with confidence on the undivided and zealous sup- port of every class of the Liberal part@. I have now completed a personal canvas, of the electors, and I regret to say that, in many instances where I had every reason to expect prompt and cordial support, I have @@met with either lukewarm neutrality or decided opposition. In addition to these discouraging circumstances, I have had to encounter the avowed hostility of the agents from the Anti-Corn-law League deputed to oppose me, and whose opposition has destroyed my chance of being returned as your representative, by dividing the Liberal interest. Nothing but a firm conviction of the hopelessness of suc- cess founded upon these obstacles, would have induced me to relinquish my prospects of representing your borough, but I am now persuaded that any continuance of this strug- gle in the present state of parties would only injure the cause to which I am pledged. In retiring from the present con- test, I beg to return my most sincere and heartfelt thanks to those honest and consistent Liberals who have rendered me their able assistance and support.-I have the honour to be, gentlemen, your most faithful, obedient, and hum- ble servant,  Walsall, Tuesday Evening.  to prevent any pos- sible misunderstanding on the subject, Mr. Gladstone's friends think it right to publish a letter which he received from three gentlemen, calling themselves a deputation from the Anti-Corn-law League, together with his reply thereto. '@George Hotel, Dec. 28, 1840. '@Sir-We have been deputed by the '@National Anti- Corn-law League' to ascertain the opinions of the  no Con- servative candidate @has the slightest chance of success. Nay, though there has been no want of overtures from persons of that party, so hopeless is t@he cause felt to be, @@that we greatly doubt if any one of them will come to the scratch when an election takes place. If Major Anderson uttered the words which the  'To J. N. Gladstone, Esq.,  Hotel, Walsall, '@Tuesday Morning, Dec. 29, 184@0. '@Gentlemen-I had the honour to receive  1837, but took special care not to bring his vapourings to  at least as well as this Major Longbow, and we can  @@a lessness of the statements as to the three counties would  COURTS. FURTHER PARTICULARS OF MR. HILL'S CASE-PRACTICE OF THE ECCLESIASTI- CAL COURT. TO THE  OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE. SIR-Mr. Hill has been the victim of two tithe suits in the Exeter Ecclesiastical Court, in both of which may be seen the worst feature, of this iniquitous tribunal. The first suit arose from his vicar claiming agistment tithes, which Mr. Hill alleged were exempt under his composition. The vicar demanded a certain sum fixed on by his surveyor and would never give the particulars of the amount. Mr. Hill, refusing to pay unless he knew what the de- mand was for, was cited on the 24th of September, 1839. On the 11th of October the libel was filed but this de- claring generally like a bill in Chancery , and not specifying the particulars of tithe due, of course it could not be seen what were the items in dispute, and rather than wait for the issuing a commission to take evidence, when the expenses would be 30l. or 40l., Mr. Hill yielded to the vicar's demand, and paid 11l. costs, although only the second step in the suit had been taken, and the  had gone into any details. The representative of Argyllshire beat his opponent at the last election by a majority of 250. This was in 1837, and the whole registrations from 1836 down to 1840 have only added 58 voters to the roll! We doubt, too, if Monzie's strange freaks have raised him in the estimation of the electors. It is equally well known that no change has taken place since Mr. Murray's recent triumph in Kirkcudbrightshire, which can endanger his seat and if there be any such Conservative gain in the county of Dumbarton as to shake the security of Mr. Colquhoun, we would surely have heard of it through some more authentic channel. The same remark will apply to the burghs of Wigtown, Ayr, and Dumfries. Had Conservatism achieved any victory there, our contemporary the Adver- tiser would have sung paeans over it long ere this. As for the Wigtown burghs, which were Liberal before, there is not a doubt that the transference of the vast estates of the Earl of Stair from a Tory to an excellent Whig, has rendered the ascendancy of Liberalism still more secure in that district. The whole statement, in fact, as to these counties and burghs, is a piece of pure imagination, pro- ceeding from the brains of Major Longbow, and swal- lowed by the gullible Cockney editor, we verily believe, from pure ignorance. Of course, t@he Times says nothing about the counties of Caithness and Wigtown, which it is  Messrs. Rawson, Prentice, and Acland.' From A Correspondent. -As you are aware, Mr. Lyttelton, the only Liberal candidate who offered himself to the electors of this borough, has been compelled to resign the contest by the misconduct of the Anti-Corn-law gentry. Mr. Foster, jun., was pre- vailed upon by them to come forward in their interest, but he has also declined, and the field is now in the un- disputed possession of Mr. Gladstone. The utmost tom- foolery is being played off by Mr. Acland@ the Anti- Corn-law Lecturer, and Mr. Rawson@ and Mr. Prentice, through whose mischievous interference the borough is reduced to its present condition. A meeting was held last night at the Dragon Assembly Room@, convened by Mr. Acland, for the purpose of considering the position in which they were placed by Mr. Foster, jun., declining to stand. After a great deal of nonsense, it was announced by Mr. Acland that the Anti-Corn-law League would not send a candidate unless there was a requisition sent from the electors. A requisition, miserably signed, was got up, and sent off express to Manchester, and, while I am now writing, a new candidate is expected. In the event of the League not sending up a man, Mr. Acland will stand  next election! It is hinted that if the Tories were at one on the church question, they might oust Mr. Ellice from the Fife burghs. This piece of intelligence is surely from Major Longbow too, for it bears his mark. The truth is, the Liberal party is more secure in these burghs than it was at the last election. It is, in fact, too strong to @be as-  evening, at eight o'clock, at the Dragon Assembly Rooms, when Mr. Acland is to address the handful of electors who may meet him. Whilst this worse than twaddling nonsense is going on, the Tories are all alive and turning every incident to account. Mr. Glad- stone has gone through a good deal of his canvass, and his committee announce that he has received promises of 70  published by the  detail the increased expenditure the causes  the consummation of the expenses to which it is applied, will aid the Treasury to support the weight of the deficits. The progressive extension of them will be combined with the progress of the public works, so as to leave no chance of perturbation i@n the service. The mea- sure whi@ch is the object of our second proposition, appears to us to be founded in principle, and useful in its appli- cation. @@Reason and justice require that the future, which will profit of the enterprises of public utility, should sup- port the greatest part of the expense which they occa- sion. Public credit will answer our appeal, if we require capital, but to incorporate it with t@he civil and to increase the opulence of @Fra@nce, the security of her creditors. You must also remark that, when the public works are to be paid by the loan, the votes of expenditure must necessarily be proportioned to the effective measures, and kept within cer- tain bounds whereas if, on the contrary, the resources of the sinking fund are employed, a vague idea of an exhaust- less resource leads to expense not always commanded by the general interest of the country. Among the works that the Administrations of War and Marine are about to undertake, some do not deserve the qualifi- cation of extraordinary. They are, nevertheless, of such a nature that the expense once made will not again occur and this consideration appears sufficient for them to be included in the project of law which will shortly be laid be- fore you. Another motive induces us to act thus.  the troops in huts 5,826,000f. for fortificati@ons and buildings for the use of the military 890,000f. on account of the increased price of materials and @provisions and about 4,000,000f. for improving the supply of the wants of the @army in Africa. The Minister of War keeps up, for 1842, the amount of 1,050,000f. the credit intended as a provisional amount for military pensions, and which is the object of a special law. This la@w reproduces in the same terms as the prec@eding the article relating to the special and extraordinary work to be executed in Algeria, but it pro- poses some @modifications in the heads of the services in the war department, for which supplimentary credits may be opened by royal ordinances it additonally includes the purchase of fuel, which has hitherto been included in prepared rations,but which it is better to state specifically then the pay of reform, which is to appear in the votes as well as the pay of non-activity, which is included therein salaries of the men employed i@n the manufacture of powder and salt- petre, an expanse which increases in proportion to the amount of demand. The naval and colonial department re- quires 127,290,400f., but this includes a sum of 14 millions,s is not to be desired we fear no mistake in admitting an equal revenue for 1842. In short, the cheapness of provision@, by ex- cluding foreign corn, can but favour other consumptions pro- ductive for the Treasury. The law of the 31 of July last, on the sugars, insures us besides a more than  by admitting only the valuation of the duties to collect on the exotic sugars, such as has been adopted for the budget of 1841. The indirect contributions have been valued according to the realiza- tions of the year 1840. First, respecting colonial sugar, we thought to be enabled, by the progressive develop- ment of the manufacture, to add three millions of kilo- gram@mes to the quantities produced by the last crop. We, therefore, calculate that the new duty of 25f. reckoned upon a quantity of 27,000,000 kilogrammes, the which, united to 80,000,000 supplied by exotic sugars, will bring to 107,000@,000, the mean consumption of the last five years. Hence arises for the comtributions indirectes, not including the tobacco, a total receipt of 139,350,000f. I@ would offer 36,000,000f. to 40,000,000f. more, if at the end of the year 1830 the tariff@s on beverage had not been reduced one third. Thehe public revenue no longer sufficing for the ordinary  of the state, it is necessary as well as regular to exo- nerate the budget from the expenses which are not again to take place. It is but by acting in this manner that we  able to propose that equilibri@um which you ask us to re- establish, and which it is our duty to effect, unless prevented by politi@cal necessities. Gentlemen, the plan we submit to your discernment is very s@imple, and the following   as a sum@mary of its results -You will efface with the Sinking Fund, if circumstances favour  of 1840, 1841, and 1842, in the space of a few years at the end of which you will find this powerful resource increased by com- pound interest. You will secure the termination of the great works of public utility by ways and means not exposed to @ are. Independentlyof these   @@@, increase the revenue of the state so as to equal its necessities, without creating new taxes or augmenting tariff duties. @We will exp@lai@n this when we speak of receipts. I have n@@ow to refer to the necessities of the year 1842. In our appreciation of public expenses, we have endeavoured to @exclude from the law of fi@nance no ordinary expense, and not to render any supplementary credits necessary by  estimates. All the expenses re- quired to keep our civil and military organizatio@n  clu budget before you we have included therein interests of the sinking fund bonds, the allowances for the pension fund, and @other expenses not contained in for- er budgets. The budget of 1842 @@may therefore be con-lered as a faithful  table the ordinary neces-  the state. We have omitted the expenses of extraordinary public works. But it does not enter into our thoughts that this being place@d in a special budget prevents them being included also in @the general one. Af- ter the vote of the law of expenses the sum  to each will be inserted in the general budget. The public debt presents us with the leading services which we have to pass in review. It figures in the budget under four divisions-the consolidated debt, loans for canals and other works,  reimbursed in different ways, and annuities.  have reduced the amount of Five per  while the Three per Cents, have increased ,144f, @by @the indemnity to emigrants. On the other side, the onsolidation of the reserve of the sinking fund  credit demanded for the Four per Cents. by a  of  composed of 11,122,357f. demanded as a  @1841, and of 1,942,000f. for the service of  fund, with its dotation of 44,616,463f. prem., and its rentes bought out, will dispose, in 1812, of a  Let us congratulate ourselves on our having preserved this puissant mode of liberation. It is most useful to us under present circumstances, and it at once for- es public credit and aids the Treasury. The charge of  applied to the building of steamers for transatlantic navi-  to the royal navy, the credit  colonial establishments is reduced to the s@um of 1@13,290,400f. With the proposed credits the Minister of Marine w@ill keep up to their present footing the naval  effec of t@he crews, the @marines and artillery. The increased e@xpense  on all the  sources to satisfy the exigencies of the situation, the moment was arrived to remodel the tariff of the beverages to the figure of the year 1829. If we do not offer any proposition in this view, we thought at least that it was indisp@ensable to pro- vide the means of obtaining from the present tariffs all that they can produce, by legislating for certain ameliorations  which produces a reduction  to point out but a reduction 310,000f., arising from the termination of the cadastre in some depart- ments, and an increase of 270,000f. In  Trea- sury charges, in consequence of extraordinary expenses which bring with them increased charges. However, the relation of these charges to the expense continues at the mo- derate rate of 13c for 100f. The expense of management and collection of taxes shows an increase of 3,244,000f., and a diminution of 340,000f. The increase pro- ceeds from 1,625,000f. for a stock of tobacco and management of the manufacture of snuff, the consumption of which continues to increase 281,600f. for the purchase of powder 304,566f. for poundage and other charges atten- dant on collection, viz. the extraordinary departmental taxes 238,000f. for customs, including 12,000f. of bending charges, which will be refunded by the towns 558,000f. for Post-office charges, in consequence of the fourth horse to mail coaches, increased speed, correction of @measure@ment of distances, and contracts for conveyance 85,280f. for the keeping up the two supplimentary steam boats, in virtue of the law of 6 July. 1840, in the Mediter- ranean and, finally, some accessary expenses. The re- ductions arise from the clothing of the carriers, the pay to the postmasters newly appointed, on the price of fuel for the steam-packets, and on the charges of superintend- ing the Salt-works de@ Est these charges will stop in 1842, in consequence of the cancelling of the lease to the company, and of the new system founded on the law of 17 June, 1840. It is proposed, under the head of Management, to transpose credits from one chapter or credit to others, which are the consequence of a new ar- rangement of services, which you will be able to judge of. We have to mention a branch mail from Tours to Havre, which will supply with advan@@ta@ge the projected line from Nantes to Rouen for the letters from Bordeaux to Havre. We have to mention the transfer in the forest service of the chapter of sundries to the personal of a sum of 50,000f., intended to employ the new forest surveyors in the important work of remeasuring the falls, th@e surveying of the a@menage@mens, and work to be executed in the forests. This measure is in conformity to the wish expressed by the last finance commission. The last part of the budget, relative to repayment and non valeurs, gives an augmentation of 1,334,250f. It proceeds from @an increase in the direct contributions in consequence of the new register of constructions and patents or ad- ditional taxes voted by Municip@al Councils. I come, gentlemen, to unrol before you the exact statement of the charges of the count@ry. The budget presented to you exceeds by 190,000,000f. that which you voted last session. But we have joined to it expenses left out of the budget of 1841 to the amount of 40,000,000f., for which we have been obliged to provide by supplementary credits. With respect to this mass of expenses, which amounts to 1,316,000,000f., the sum of the public revenue, estimated at 1,162,000,000f. according to the results of the present year, offers an insuffi- ciency amounting to 154,000,000f. And it the expenses be c@alculat@@ed according to a peace establishment@@ if, setting asi@ charges, we reduce it to a nominal state the insufficiency of ways   of the amor- tissement of the ne@w which we propose to create. Of all the facts just offered for your meditations, this calls for most attention. A great nation, like ours, can suppor@t accidental charge@s without alarm. And it is with a view to such conti@ngencies, which the current of events will now and then bring back to existence, that  care to stre@ngthen credit, which  it. But when the ordinary resource@ of a country cease to be on a level with its permanent charges,  it just to limit the right of circulation in favour of the proprietor in just limits, i.@e., restrain it to the produce of his harvest that he destines to his own con- sumption. Beyond this it would be privilege, and ought not to be suffered. The fourth allowed to the seller in detail of his own produce is, for the same reason, to be withheld. A general system, too, with, respect to the sale of spirits in towns ought to be adopted and a new base for the conversion of liquors into alcohol adopted. The sale of tobacco in 1840 has produced 94,458,000f. The estimate of it for 1842 is 96,000,000f. The sale of lands is valued in the estimates of 1842 at 5,357,000f the same as in 1840. We hope from the Post-office 47,025,500f., the same as that obtained in the last twelve months, diminished by a  the suppression of Corsican packet-boats. In fine, the different products, in which are included certain special revenues, such as the retribution of the University, and of Algeria, amount to 39,486,582f. This estimate exceeds that of the last budge@ by 740,000f. The aug- mentation proceeds from the estimated value of tenders to be delivered by the War Minister to the war and finance department, and from the increase of the reserve labours, from the expenses of the materiel of marine, venue for 1840. It amounts, as we have already said, to 1,161,838,142f. to be divided thus -@ now remains to consider the extraordinary ways and means which circumstance, call for, and which form, with the dispositions habitually destined to facilitate the servi@ce, the object of the last chapter of the law of receipts. We ask of you, then, to authorise us to inscribe on the great book of the public debt, and to negotiate with publicity and competition the sum of rentes necessary to bring to the trea- sury, as the result of the op@@eration, a capital of 450,000,000f. You will feel, gentle@men, with what circumspection our ex- planations should be accompanied on this important m@easure@ and what reserve is imposed on us to ensure success, in satis- fying all the conditions which rule operation, of this nature. The facts speak too highly to your judgment and to ours, that we are not called on to justify the great latitude which should be given to the resources placed at the dispo- sition of government. You have acceded that latitude in time@ less difficult. It was in 1837 but a secondary consider- ation@ it is now indisp@@ensible. The loan which we ask of you to authorise should balance, in the first instance, the wants of the treasury, and finally discharge the expenses of public works and the extra@ordinaries for all services. It will be shown to you @immediately that the 4@50,000,000f. will be absorbed by the work@ for which it is required. In all cases the realization of a loan will not he immediate. The Treasury has a reserve which is still 120,000,000f., and it is for a good administration to increase the balance in chest beyond measure, and cause the loss of interest for which n@o adequate compensation can be received. Therefore, we @have not demanded any credit for the service of rentes to be negotiated-we only claim the faculty of creating them, if there be a necessity by royal ordinance without waiting to submit them for legislative sanction at theopening of the cham- bers. As to the choice of rentes to be created, with regard to the price or the periods at which the payments of the loan are to be made, whether we divide the adjudication, or have it done by one affair, it is necessary, gentlemen, that you yield to our ministerial responsibility. The conditions which you might impose, would only create difficulties-your confidence in this respect is an absolute condition of success. We also demand from you a credit of 250,000,000f. in Treasury Bonds. If the peace be con- firmed, as it promises to be, this resource will permit us to wait to realise or complete the loan when our public  face, their conduct in fetching engines, which appear so crazy, all the way from Philadelphia, instead of employing our own skilful workmen in their construction, need excite but little surprise. Fortune does not seem to shine on this company, but their shabby conduct towards this city will prevent anybody's feeling sorry for disappointed spe- culators, whose avarice has o'erleaped itself, and fallen on the other side. -Worcester Chronicle.  -On Tuesday week, an inquest was held at the Horse and Jockey Inn, Newton, on view of the body of Thomas Harrison, a fireman at the Vulcan Foundry. It was the duty of the deceased to attend to the steam engine at Messrs. Tayleur and Co.'s extensive works, and to get up the steam a little before six o'clock every morning. On Saturday he had done so, and went among the ma- chinery for the purpose of putting the strap on the fan used for blowing the blast for the furnaces and black- smith's fires, when his clothes got entangled, and he was dragged into the fan. He was driven round with an amazing impetus for some time, and on each revolution of the wheel, his legs, which protruded over the edge, came in contact with the door, and were literally smashed to atoms. Mr. Dowling, one of the managers of the works, was the first to render assistance. He was much injured about the body, and the fractures about his legs were almost innumerable. The poor fellow was carried home, and promptly at- tended by Mr. Barrow, surgeon, and Dr. Green, of New- ton, Mr. Gorton, surgeon, of St. Helen's, and Mr. Pen- nington, of Ashton. On Sunday morning he became sensible, and for a time appeared to rally. In the course of that day mortification took place, and at his request both legs were amputated by Mr. Gorton, at four o'clock in the afternoon. The deceased bore the operation with great fortitude, and survived until eleven o'clock in the evening, when death ensued. The jury returned a ver- dict of Accidental Death. -Blackburne Gazette. A correspondent has furnished us with the sequel to the history of the uxoriously-disposed Baron von HALL- BERG, whose advertisement for a helpmate we inserted some days back. The bold Baron's word as to his hale- ness of constitution seems to have been taken so literally, that the number of fair applicants who replied occasioned some press of business at the Munich post-office. It is stated that he received upwards of a thousand proposals within a short period. Some waggish editor of a news- paper, we suppose for wags will lurk even in the most steady paced circle@ , alluding to the above-mentioned facts, announced the Baron's intention to give a grand dinner on New Year's Day, to which the fair suitors were one and all to be invited. After grace it was stated that the band would be instructed to strike up the new pa- triotic song on the Rhine, Sie sollen ihn nicht haben, @c. They shall not-shall not have him, @c@ , as the German version goes.  person of the name of Campbell, who was for some time shepherd on the farm of Liaran, and lived with his wife and family in a very remote place in the hill called Cor- ribbachaidh nam Fiadh, being an expert angler, and close to Loc@herrochd-side, very frequently, when his pastoral avocations permitted him, employed his time in fishing on this lake and having one day caught a large trout, he received no unusual thing a slight scratch from its teeth, when he was in the act of extricating the book from its mouth. Of this he took little notice at first but as it bled very profusely, and his hand began rapidly to swell, he hastened home to his wife, and they both tried every means in their power to stop the blood, but to no avail. Baffled and alarmed, the poor wise proposed, as a forlorn hope, that she would go to the Strath for the assistance of others, and having received his concurrence, she started in the middle of the night, and travelled ten miles through a dark and dreary hill, ere she arrived at any human habitation. Greatly fatigued, she came to Llaran about daylight, and, having communicated her alarm, and implored immediate aid, she, in returning, outran the individuals who set out for her assistance@ and, with the speed of lightning, flew back to her beloved hus- band@ But, alas@! what must have been her feelings when she cast her eyes upon the sad spectacle, which, on her arrival, presented itself-the object dearest to her on earth lying pale in the arms of death, and her young fatherless children crying around him? Few, we believe, were placed in more trying circumstances than this un- fortunate female, and her melancholy and early bereave- ment has called forth the sympathy of all who knew her or heard of her sad story@-Perth Courier. The river Tyne, for @a considerable distance above Scotswood bridge, westward, was frozen over on Wednes- day last. The frost has since given way, so that the navi- gation has happily not yet been stopped by the ice.-Tyne Mercury. Lord CREWE is on a visit to Lord and Lady HATHERTON, at Teddesley Park, Stafford, where a dis- tinguished party is assembled.-@Wolverhampton Chronicle.  is a specimen of the document. Also, the party proponent doth say and allege that the said Joseph Hill, in the years libelled, was a pa- rishioner and inhabitant within the parish of K--libelled, and did there hear divine service, and receive the sacrament, together with his wife, yearly, or at least ought so to have done, for which there is due and payable to the vicar libelled at Easter, yearly, or near there- abouts, four pence a piece for every communicant, for and in lieu of their general oblations. The vicar, flushed with the success of his first suit, in the January following issued the citation in question for the quarter's tithe then due but the demand being under 10l., the suit was dismissed, as I have before mentioned. The following is Dr. Adda@ms's opinion.- I think that the defendant must appear absolutely. If the libel does not set forth that the yearly value of tithe subtracted exceeds 10l., the defendant must@ object to its admission, and then the court unless, indeed, it directs the libel to be reformed in that respect should dismiss the defendant with costs and so, if when the plaintiff having leave to reform the libel, he can't or does not plead the annual value of the tithe subtracted to be above 10l. If it pleaded that the annual value of the tithe sub- tracted is above 10l., but that fact is not proved in or disproved by the evidence at the hearing of the cause, the result, I apprehend, should at all events be, that the defendant is entitled to his costs, though the plaintiff may prove some tithe subtracted and recover accordingly. Signed J. ADDAMS. Doctor's Commons, Feb. 4, 1840. However the result was, that Mr. Hill could not get costs and the idea o@f the defendant submitting to a suit, until the evidence is taken and the cause heard, is so monstrous, that it is better to yield to an illegal de- mand, than run the risk of incurring 40l. costs. I am, sir, your obedient  MEETING ON BEHALF OF WIDOW YOUNG. At a meeting held at Monmouth on the 28th of De- cember, for taking into consideration the best means to be adopted for the liberation of the widow, Sarah Young, now a prisoner in the county gaol of Monmouth, where she has been detained seven months for alleged contempt of the Ecclesiastical Court of @Llandaff, whither she was illegally cited at the suit of the Rev. Dr. Lyle, of that place, for 3l. 10s. said to be due for tithe, the following resolutions were adopted - That the citation of a poor widow for a small amount of tithe to an ecclesiastical court, contrary to the act made to prevent such proceedings, is both unchristian and unconstitutional. That the Ecclesiastical Court of Llandaff, which has been in the habit of issuing citations for small amounts of tithe, has displayed a want of respect for the law@ of  majority than the Liberal party had previously mustered. As for the Jedburgh and Elgin burghs, we have heard nothing to shake our belief that the Reform party is secure @@@both. Apropos of the blunders of the Times @-It states in its number of the @24th November, that in the Scotch burghs Toryism had recently made the most splendid progress. As evidence of this it referred to the municipal elections in Musselburgh, Stirling, Dumbarton, Dunbar, Edinburgh and Glasgow. To persons acquainted with Scot- land, the selection of examples is very significant. Musselburgh has had a majority of Tory council- lors for five or six years through the influence of a single proprietor it is not worse than it was, for the last elec- tions gave three Whigs to four Torics and the weight of the burgh may be judged of from the fact, that it contains less than one-seventh of the electors, in a district where the Liberals have a majority of nearly two to one@! Stirling @has been most unluckily appealed to. Of twenty-one members of council in that burgh, the Tories have not been able to return more, we believe, than one, or at most two! This, mind you, is what the Times celebrates as a triumph@! Of Dumbarton and Dunbar we have no local knowledge, but we may safely concede that the success of the Tories there is of t@he same description as at Stirling. In fact, Conservatism has been losing ground in most of our small burghs. In Linlithgow, for instance, there were just three Tory councillors out of twenty-seven, and these were expelled at the last election. At Glasgow we are told the victory in favour of the church and constitution has been so complete that a Conservative Lord Provost has been unanimously elected, a circumstance which will secure the ascendancy of sound principles in that quarter for many years to come. In point of fact, the two parties stand in Glasgow precisely as they did before that last election, without either gain or loss. They are exactly balanced, or within one vote of being so. In Edinburgh we are told that, at the last elections the Conservatives returned an equal number of coun- cillors with the Liberals. After this the force of menda- city can no farther go! Even those who are familiar with the bold lies of t@he Times will scarcely believe, what is literally true, that of the twelve members returned at the elections last month, three were Conservatives and nine Liberals! Parties remain just as they were, but the Liberals would have gained at least one vote at the last election, if the unhappy schism between t@he churchmen and the dissenters had not occurred. According to the Times, the dissenters began to advo- cate the voluntary principle about fifteen years ago, be- cause they were losing ground, their wealthier members being attracted to the more genteel places of worship belonging to the church. Now, dissenters have multi- plied as fast within the last fifteen years as at any former period, and if they acted from the motive assigned, will the Times be so kind as to tell us why the voluntary re- medy was not resorted to fifty years earlier@? The recent history of the controversy is no secret. The dissenters, seeing establishments everywhere around them in the Christian world, only opened their eyes to the full strength and efficacy of their own principles by slow de- grees. It was about the period mentioned by the Times, or a little later, that the minds of many of their leading clergymen were sufficiently ripened to adopt voluntaryism openly and perhaps we may take some credit to ourselves for this result, the Scotsman having advocated the doc- trine when fit occasions occurred, from the first day of  the subject, which ought not to pass with impunity. That this meeting pledges itself, by bringing this par- ticular case before Parliament, by petitioning the Legis- lature, and by using every lawful means, to endeavour to abolish the power usurped by the ecclesiastical courts. That a committee be now appointed, with power to add to their number, with a view to effect the liberation of the widow Sarah Young, who has already suffered seven months' imprisonment for alleged contempt of the Eccle- siastical Court of Llandaff, whither she was illegally cited for 3l. 10s., said to be due to the Rev. Dr. Lyle for tithe. That a subscription for carrying out the above re- solutions be immediately opened. That James Bromage, Esq., banker, Monmouth, be appointed treasurer and Mr. E. Richard@, secretary, who is requested to forward the resolutions to the public paper@.@@ WHO IS THE REV. DR. LYLE@? TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE. SIR-I shall be obliged by your informing me if the Rev. Dr. Lyle, at present before the public respecting the case of the Widow Young, is the same person as the Rev. William Birkin Meakham Lisle, LL.D., of Tally- garn, in the county of Glamorgan, and rector of St. Fagans, near Llandaff, a gentleman of a very large pro- perty. I am, sir, yours, c. Dec. 30, 1840. VERAX. FIRE.-Yesterday morning, about half-past two o'clock, an extensive fire broke out in the bed-rooms of the house of a gentleman, named Seely, near Padding- ton Church. On the alarm having been given the parish engine was taken to the spot by a party of me- tropolitan police this was quickly followed by engines from King-street and Baker-street, but although a ready supply of water was obtained, and the greatest exertions made to arrest the progress of the fire, a considerable portion of valuable property was destroyed. @@The fire originated, it is believed, through a lighted candle having been placed too near the bed furniture. The property destroyed is insured. courses delivered on the subject, and converts were gained the more rapidly in consequence of t@he wide- spread disgust excited by the universal hostility of the established clergy to the Reform Bill. It was now evident that a change had commenced, which promised in course of time to sap all establishments. The church- men took the alarm, and, to counteract the move- ment, started the Non-Intrusion doctrine, which they pretended would cure the admitted vices of the establishment, and give its congregations all the advan- tages enjoyed by the dissenters, with the further benefit of free seats. The Veto law was carried after a struggle, and being now awakened to the formidable attitude which dissent was assuming, they deemed it necessary to resort to offensive measures, and introduced the church extension scheme, the avowed object of which was to crush dissent, by planting a place of wor- ship with free sittings at the side of each dis- senting meeting-house. While this state of things lasted the controversy was hot, and there was a perpetual shower of pamphlets and polemical ser- mons, but Parliament at length knocked the plan on the head by refusing funds. About the same time the cases of Auchterarder and Marnoch brought the church into collision with the courts of law and the wild men, having their thoughts engrossed by another object, and feeling the necessity of enlisting the multitude in support of their schemes, silently dropped their disputes with t@@@he dissenters, and even began to ply them with blarney. The latter were now relieved from the necessity of defending themselves, and the con- troversy of course slackened, but they held, and still hold, meetings from time to time for the dissemina- tion of the voluntary principle, which most certainly never advanced more rapidly than it is doing at t@he pre- sent time. Indeed, the common feeling of the dissenters is, that direct attacks upon the establishment are now little necessary, for the obvious reason that the church, by its rebellious attitude and the arrogance of its preten- sion@, is hastening its own destruction. The dissenters, however, could not see the franchise per@verted into a means of advancing sectarian domination, at their  yet come for- ward and, if so, nothing but the ill- timed attempt at dis- play by the Anti-Corn-law League can prevent the electors from retaining their independence. It is really pitiable to see men calling themselves Reformers adopting the only course which can defeat their own object. Only think of these men communicating with Mr. Gladstone, in order to ascertain his views upon the corn-laws. Such con- duct indicates either sheer knavery or consummate ig- norance. They must well know that Mr. Gladstone will not vote for a repeal of the corn-laws, and yet they ask him the question, thereby intimating their intention of supporting him, if they can have the slightest pretext for @doing so. Under all these circumstances, there is but one hope left, and that is, that some stern Liberal will yet step forward. I know many of Mr. Lyttelton's friend@s feel deeply mortified that he should be compelled t@o resign, well knowing as they do that the Liberal int@erest cannot afford a division amongst them.  last, the 22d current, will form an important era in the annals of the Glasgow Asylum for the Blind. On that day Mr. John Alston, primum mobile of this excellent institution, had the satisfaction of exhibiting to a party of 150 an examination of the pupils in the Bible for the Blind, which is for the first time completed in 15 quarto volumes. Amidst the many benevolent persons who have exerted themselves to ameliorate the condition and cultivate the minds of the blind, Mr. Alston is the first gentleman who has succeeded in printing in relief, from the ordinary Roman capital, the characters formerly in use being either arbi- trary, or modification, of the Illyrian or Sclavonic alphabet. At the annual examination of the inmates of the asylum, on 25th October, 1836, Mr. Alston brought out his first specimen of printing from the Roman type and he forth- with resolved to raise a fund distinct from that of the institution, to be devoted exclusively to the printing of books, and to their diffusion at a cheap rate throughout the country. In this appeal to private benevolence and public aid, Mr. Alston was not disappointed, and was enabled successively to bring but a number of elementary works, and finally the@@@ @New Testament in super-royal quarto size. This encouraged him to still further ex- ertion @and @he resolved to undertake the laborious work of printing the whole Bible. In March, 1839, he had completed the Book of Genesis, in a new type cut for the purpose, the punches being struck and the types castst in Glasgow under his own inspection. Before proceed- ing further, he visited in April of that year all the insti-@ tutions for the blind, and he found in them the utmost will- ingness to aid by purchasing such of the different volumes as had been already printed, and were required by them. As the work was one of vast expense@ assistance was given by various benevolent societies, but the great lift was afforded by her Majesty, who, in September, 1839, granted the sum of 400l. from the royal bounty for the purpose of assisting in such a meritorious work. Thus aided, the work, as we have stated, has been happily brought to a conclusion. The printing is effected by a copperplate printing press. The types being strongly relieved, and liable frequently to give way under the heavy pressure required, it has been necessary to have them no less than four times recast during the progress of the work. There is in the operative department one man and a boy as com- positors, who were taught in the institution, and one press- man, the ordinary teacher acting as corrector of th@@@e press. -Glasgow Herald.  Saturday an in- quisition was taken at the George the Fourth, East- road, before Mr. Cooper, coroner of this borough, on view of the body of William Jolly, aged two years The deceased child was the son of an agricultural labourer, aged twenty-six years, residing in Popjoy's-rents. Gas- lane. He works at Chesterton, and his wages amount to only 9s. a week, out of which he has to pay 1s. 6d. a week for rent. He had been out of work lately, and his wife and child were a few weeks since for several days@ literally in want of bread. They have but two blankets, one was pawned in the summer, and the other the poor woman was obliged to pawn on Tuesday, the 22d in- stant, at a time when the deceased child was suffering from illness. That night it became worse, and died in the course of a few hours no medical man was called in@ the poor woman being unable to pay for any assistance of that kind. The family, it appears, sleep @@on a mattress placed on a brick floor, without sheets or blankets, and with no other covering than an old jack, the man's great coat, and the woman's cloak. A post mortem examination was made by Mr. Lestourge@on, jun., from which, and from the other evidence, @the jury came to the conclusion that disease, which @ha@d terminated fatally, had been brought on by@@@@ the inclemency of the weather and the want of suff@@icien@t bed clothing, and returned a verdict ac- cor@dingly@.-Cambridge Advertiser.  Wednesday morning the policeman at Fountainbridge, in consequence of informa- tion he had received, entered a house in Inglis' Entry@@, Fountainbridge, the residence of two females, mother and daughter, named Fife. The two females had absconded, but he found on the floor, stark naked, and quite dead, a little girl about eleven years of age, a natural daughter of the younger female. None of her clothes were found about the apartment and several marks,  of violence, were observed on her person. The two  afterwards apprehended and are still  and the affair is under investigation. We  that the neighbours allege both prisoners were in the habit especially when intoxicated, of using threatening language towards the child, and of treating her with  
 THE POLITICAL EXAMINER. If I might give a short hint to an impartial writer, it would be to tell him his fate. If he resolves to venture upon the dangerous precipice of tell- ing unbiassed truth, let him proclaim war with mankind-neither to give nor to take quarter. If he tells the crimes of great men, they fall upon him with the iron hands of the law if he tells them of their virtues, when they have any, then the mob attacks him with slander. But if he regards truth, let him expect martyrdom on both sides, and then he may go on fearless and this is the course I take my- self.-DE FOE. THE ANDOVER UNION INQUIRY. In pity to the Assistant Commissioner it was high time to stop the inquiry into the conduct of worthy Mr M'Dougal, of the Andover Union Work- house. Thirteen days of self‐exposure was quite as much as Mr Parker could bear. His zeal was vast, but his dexterity mean, and wretchedly clumsy were his attempts to screen the accused, to abash the witnesses, and obstruct the discovery of the truth. Under his countenance and encourage- ment, however, the professional licence had full indulgence, and the Counsel for M'Dougal gave a turn of ribaldry and indecency to the examination to the last degree disgusting. Indeed, gross as are the o@ﬀences charged, they are less scandalous, less pernicious, less mischievous in example than the attempts to screen them from detection and punishment, which hold out the promise of impu- nity to every licentious brute who happens to be placed at the head of a workhouse. The principle that has governed the inquiry seems to have been, that paupers were to be supposed incapable of speaking the truth and that if any immorality could be charged against their previous lives, any immorality could be practised towards them with impunity. One woman replied, with point and spirit, upon the attempt to invalidate her evidence on the score of character, that it did not follow that because she had been bad before, the master was to make her sin again against her will. M'Dougal has not had the opportunity of making his defence, and therefore we shall not give any opinion on the host of evidence against him but whatever may be the merits of the case, the par- tiality of the Assistant Commissioner in the inves- tigation of it allows of no dispute, it is as @ﬂagrant as folly and injustice combined could make it. We could quote a score of gross instances, but the ex- ample we give will serve as well as a hundred. A witness was giving evidence of M'Dougal's habits of drunkenness- By Mr Curtis.-He once read the Lord's prayer twice, and the prayer before ' the Grace of our Lord.' It was in t@he evening. He read the prayer, ' Dearly beloved breth- ren,' c. Don't you know that there is no prayer, but sentences of Scripture, before that ?-That is of no consequence. Mr Parker.-What do you mean by that ? Do you say they are of no consequence ? Witness.-No not the prayers. Oh, no. What I said was of no consequence. The prayers are very good. Mr Curtis.-Ho@w dare you say that what you state upon oath is of no consequence?-I mean that what I said was of no consequence to what you said. Do you know the ninth commandment ?-I used to know them all once. Have you never heard the commandment, ' Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour ?'-Yes. But I made a mistake. I called ' Dearly beloved brethren' a prayer, but it bean't a prayer. T@he adults were present. Isaac Cobb and others were there. The boys and girls laughed when master could not get on better with the prayers. I did not laugh. It was not a subject to laugh at. My daughter did not attend prayers. I attended the boys in to prayers. They are generally read about half‐past six, after supper. I can't tell the date or day of the week when t@he double readings took place. On reading over the evidence it appeared that the assist- ant‐commissioner had recorded that the witness had said the sentences before ' Dearly beloved brethren' were of no conse- quence. Mr Prendergast denied that the witness had said so. W@hat he said was, that having called the address beginning ' Dearly beloved brethren' a prayer was of no consequence. It was not a prayer for his calling it so. Mr Parker.-NoNo but he spoke of the sentences before that. Mr Prendergast.-Which was put upon him by  him if he was not a Primitive Methodist. Mr Curtis.-The words ' of no consequence' came from you. Mr Prendergast.-I beg your pardon. But, if that were so, why put them on the witness? @The witness explained that the observation ' That's of no consequence' was meant by him to apply to his having called the address a prayer. @The explanation was not required the man's meaning was clearly enough that his mistake was of no consequence, and it was a vile trick, worthy of a Mawworm, to pretend that the remark applied to the Scriptural sentences. M'@Dougal @m @or ma@y not be @ﬁt to be  there cannot be a doubt of @what should be done with Mr Parker. For  Commissioner he has shown himself utterly un@ﬁt, but he appears quali@ﬁed to make a very suit- able assistant to Mr M'Dougal. The Poor Law Commissioners have abruptly stopped the inquiry, and made the following mo- dest proposals - Poor‐Law Commission o@@ﬃce, Somerset house, 9th September, 1845. Sir,-The Poor‐law Commissioners have had under consideration the length to which the inquiry at Andover has already extended, and the suspense as well as the outlay to which both parties interested in this inquiry have neces- sarily already been exposed. All this must be still further increased if the inquiry is continued in the same form. On these grounds, and because the commissioners wish that some, at least, of the questions now raised should be brought before a jury, they have determined to take the following course - 1. The commissioners will cause a@n indictment to be preferred against the master in respect of any one case of assault, with an improper intention, alleged to have been committed on a pauper whilst an inmate of the work- house. The commissioners will take any case which you, as the accuser of the master, may suggest, and will cause the bill to be preferred at the next quarter sessions, which take place in the month of October. 2. The commissioners will, in like manner, cause an information before justices to be laid against the master or matron, under section 97 of the Poor‐law Amendment Act, for any one act of embezzlement or misapplication of food, clothing, or goods belonging to the union which you may select. It will on this charge be open to any one to show that the inmates have not received their full and proper allow- ance of food. It is needless to say that if the master is convicted by a jury on the @ﬁrst of these charges the com- missioners would at once dismiss him from o@@ﬃce. If he is convicted on the second charge he becomes dis- quali@ﬁed, by the operation of the act, from holding o@@ﬃce hereafter. If an indictment for embezzlement or theft be thought more e@ﬀective, the commissioners have no objection to that form of proceeding, instead of the information under the 97th section above referred to. The commissioners are convinced that this course will at once be the most satisfactory and the most expeditious in bringing the matter to an issue. In order to remove misapprehension the commissioners wish it to be understood that they will cause the indictment to be prepared, and the bill to be preferred, and the infor- mation to be laid at the cost of the commission. But they will not undertake to defray out of the funds at their dis- posal any subsequent expenses, either for the prosecution or the defence. The parties making the charge can in this, as in every other case, take their own measures to obtain conviction and the master must of course provide for his own defence. The commissioners will also recommend the board of guardians that they suspend the master and matron until the result of the indictment and information are known, and place some other persons in charge of the workhouse. The discretion of doing this is by the regulations of the commissioners vested in the board of guardians. The commissioners can dismiss, but this of course is a step im- plying a @ﬁnal decision on the merits of the case, on which no evidence as regards the master is yet before the com- missioners, and on which they must be understood as expressing no opinion whatever. Mr Parker, assistant‐commissioner, will be directed, on the receipt of a copy of this letter, to suspend all further inquiry until the result of the indictment and information shall be known, since the continuance of such proceedings in the interval might be held to prejudice the case one way or the other. The commissioners request that you will notify to them, as soon as possible, the exact cases which you desire to select, in such a form as to enable the indict- ment and the information to be properly prepared forth- with. The commissioners have no objection to bot@h of them being seen by your solicitor before they are @ﬁnally settled. They also request, with reference to the former, that you will supply them with a list of witnesses necessary in your opinion to support the bill before the grand jury. I am, sir, your most obedient servant,  Assistant‐Secretary. T. C. Westlake, Esq., Andover. And what is to be done with the charges of drun- kenness ? Nothing. There is not even the decency of a pretence of dealing with them. The alleged immoralities, too, were not con@ﬁned to assaults with improper intent there were several cases of consent, one confessed and do the Com- missioners mean it to be understood that the mas- ters of unions are at liberty to make brothels of them, provided they do not use violence ? As the law is notoriously a lottery with many blanks, the proposal to put M'Dougal's guilt or innocence of the many charges against him to the issue of the trial of one case of assault and one of embezzlement, is the next thing to o@ﬀering to settle the question by the cast of the dice and the cost of the prosecution, excepting only the expenses of the indictment and information, is to fall on the persons who have endeavoured to apprise the Commissioners of the misconduct of their servant ! We hope the proposal will be spurned. It is for the Commissioners to investigate the charges against the Master of the Andover Union, and to satisfy themselves whether he is or is not a trust- worthy servant. They are not to shu@fﬂe o@ﬀ their responsibilities and to transfer them to a jury, and that in the investigation only of one charge while there are more than a score more of the same nature. And suppose the person who has been M'Dougal's accuser should make an inju- dicious choice in the selection of a case, and pitch upon one the substantiation of which may be di@@ﬃcult. Have the Commissioners any right to run the hazard, and with it to take the chance of continuing in his place of trust a man who may be guilty of all the rest of the shameful charges, or of any of them ? For what are these Commissioners p@aid by the public if they are to thrust o@ﬀ their duties upon Mr Westlake and a jury Mr West- lake having to select a solitary case, and a jury to investigate and decide on it ? Why is Mr West- lake to perform imperfectly the o@@ﬃce of the Com- missioners ? If the Board at Somerset house be not compe- tent to judge of these charges, or to make its own selection of such as should be submitted to a jury, the sooner it is swept away as useless, or, worse, as the screen to the most shameful abuses, the better. Its whole anxiety seems to be to diminish the chances of discovering the master's guilt, if guilty he be. If it be thought permissible at Somerset house that peculations for amiable domestic purposes should occur in workhouses, that weekly drunken- ness should have indulgence, and that unions should be converted into seraglios, let it all be openly avowed and the public assessed to the poor will know how to take their measures to abate the nuisance and imposition for its support. Let us have no false pretences, no mockery of jus- tice. Let it be made known whether or not the place of master of a union be peculiarly desirable for debauchees, who may perhaps, with this exam- ple, be tempted to bid for the appointment. The Matron is to be suspended we see, as if there could be any shadow of question as to the impropriety of continuing her in her place, her acts of violence to the witnesses who had given evidence against her husband, having been confessed by her husband's not very scrupulous counsel. THE LAST REPEAL CRO@TCHET. Exhorting the Repeal Association to exert them- selves strenuously to return seventy Repealers not to sit in Parliament, and who are to be non‐repre- sentatives, Mr O'Connell remarks- You should in all your o@@ﬃcial correspondence with the country imitate the Delenda est Carthago of the Roman statesman- When we had read so far we thought the motto @delenda Carthago not inaptly chosen for the ob- ject, the Carthago being the Irish representation, which is to be made a nullity, blotted out of exist- ence but the Irish reading of delenda Carthago is, we @ﬁnd, the very contrary to destructive, it sig- nifying Hibernicè vitality and regeneration. Mr O'Connell continues the sentence from the place of our interruption of it. with this di@ﬀerence-that instead of suggesting anything destructive, your suggestions will tend to renewed vitality and national regeneration. Politics and singing have of late years become closely connected. France, enraged by the Treaty of July, took her revenge by singing the Marseil- laise morning, noon, and night. Europe bore it, and, thank heaven, we have passed through that tuneful crisis. Mr O'Connell having seen what great things can be done by vocal concert, proposes a duet of the orange and green. His plan for the reconciliation of tunes, hitherto at deadly discord, is thus rea- soned- Mr O'Ferrall, of Dungannon, is made to call the tunes played by the Orange band ' party tunes.' Now, there are no such things as ' party tunes' in the repeal agitation-there is a marked distinction between ' national airs' and ' party tunes.' Whilst we were struggling for emancipation there were party tunes-tunes intended to convey insult and resistance to the Catholics and their claims. But the Catholics as such have no longer any claims to make the date of party tunes is therefore over. As to the Repealers, no Irish tune can possibly be disagreeable  if it were disagreeable, the Repealers ought cheerfully to concede to brother Irishmen the selection of any airs that pleased themselves. Besides, the ' Boyne Water,' for ex- ample, is a beautiful air. The southern Repealers have in many places taken it up as a national air, and I hope it will soon become general with the Repealers of the north, as well as those of the south. Let the Repeal wardens com- municate to such Catholics as are not Repealers our earnest advice to listen cheerfully and merrily to  Orangemen may play, an@d thus to  of harmony, 
 and have experienced a further rise of ½ per cent., Consols being now quoted 94½ to ¼ ex div., for the opening Bank Stock, 172½ Three per Cents. Reduced, 94 to 5 the Three-and-a-Half per Cents. Reduced, 101¼ to  India Bonds, 52. to 4. prem. Exche- quer Bills, under the influence of the purchases made by the Government broker, are now quoted at the high price of 61s. to 63s. prem. In the Foreign Securities there has been a dispo- sition shown to speculate in some of the low-priced South American Stocks. The only description of Portuguese Securities now quoted in the official list is the New Portuguese Converted, it being supposed that all parties interested in these securities will ultimately convert their bonds. Spanish Secu- rities are a shade lower than yesterday. The following are the closing quotations in the Foreign House -Spanish Active Bonds, 18¼ to ½ De- ferred, 10  to  Passive, 4 to  New Threes, 23¼ to  Mexican Bonds, 31¾ to 2 Deferred, 9¼ to ½ Portuguese Converted, 35½ Belgian, 101½ to 2½ Bra@zilian, 71 to 72 Buenos Ayres, 25 to 27 Chi- lian, 74 to 6 Colombian, 23½ Danish, 84 to 85 Dutch Five per Cents., 101 to ½ ditto Two-and- a-Half per Cents., 53 to ¼. This day week we alluded to the suspension of payments of the Yorkshire Agricultural Bank, and to the attempts made by a deputation of the direc- tors who had come to town to form new arrange- ments to enable the company to resume business, whic@h, however, had up to that time been unsuc- cessful. The news from the country to-day brings inte@l@ligence of the final winding-up this concern, after having lost all the paid up capital of £211,000, and £100,000 besides. The greatest distress prevails in @the district where the bank was situated, and a call of £3 per share on 615 partners will still be @necessary to make good the outstanding deficiency. T@he grossest blunders are said to have been com- mitted by the board of management, and all the divi@dends were paid out of the capital. In this case@, as in many others, the shareholders appear to to have been ruined by misplaced confidence, and want of due control. The Share Market continues at yesterday's quota- tions, viz. -London and Birmingham, 98 to 100 prem. Great Westerns, 24½ to 5½ prem. South Westerns, 62½ per share Brightons, 36¼ to ½ per @share Black@walls, 5½ to ¾ per share North Mid- land, 62½ to 3½ per share Paris and Rouen, 5¾ to 6 prem. In Joint-stock Banks, London and Westminster Bank shares were done at 21¾ per share and the new shares of the Provincial of Ireland at 31¾. The following are the returns of the receipts of the undermentioned railways, for the weeks ending the dates specified  a special general meeting of the proprietors of the Croydon Railway Company, held on Tuesday last, t@he report from the directors recommended the proprietors to discontinue the carrying trade, owing to the refusal of the Greenwich board to treat with them for a settlement of the toll question. The chairman stated that the arrangements made with the South Eastern Company would enable the Croy- don board to resume the traffic whenever a fitting opportunity presented itself. It appeared that the expenses were about £200 a week, while the receipts had fallen short of that amount by £10 or £12. The passengers carried between London and Croydon were about 700 per week. A return of the receipts from the 1st of August to the 13th of December showed nett receipts of £5,299 not much above £300 a week, although during a portion of that time the 3d. toll only had been in operation. After a lengthened discussion, the period for aban- doning the carrying trade seems to have been post- poned until the 25th of March and a committee was appointed to negotiate with the Greenwich Company, with a view of endeavouring to effect some arrangement to enable the Company to go on. A pamphlet on the Tea Trade, just published by the editor of the Public Ledger, states that in the year 1839 the highest price of the year paid for Company's Congou at the sale price was 2s. 7d. per 1b. the lowest, 1s. 5d. per lb. stock on the 31st of December, 52,500,000lbs. stock of Company's Congou, 33,000chests delivered for home co@nsump- tion, 32,366,412lbs. gross duty paid, £3,363,963. In 1840 the highest price was 3s. 3d. per lb. lowest, 1s. 11d. stock 31st of Dec., 46,500,000lbs. stock of Company's Congou, 28,700 chests quan- tity deliver@ed for home consumption, 35,136,232lbs. gross amount of duty paid, £3,660,008. In 1841 the highest price was 2s. 9d. per lb. lowest, 1s. 4½d. stock 31st of Dec.,  the consumers, whereof £3,500,000 is paid for duty to the Crown, and the remainder, being £5,500,000, he says, is appro- priated by the importers, and in profit divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. This esti- mate seems to be founded on the basis that there are 36,000,000 of pounds of tea consumed annually, at 5s. per lb. Taking, then, the highest sale prices for the years 1839, 1840,1841, and 1842, the average is 2s. 11d. per lb., leaving 2s. 1d. of profit for every pound of tea, to be divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. We should like much to see an analysis of the component parts of this propor- tion of profit paid by the consumers to the two branches of the tea trade. How much goes to the wholesale dealers, and how much of it to the re- tailers? It is to be regretted that the writer of the pamphlet did not enter into these points, and at the same time into a discussion of the expediency of maintaining a uniform duty of 2s. 1d. per lb. on all qualities of teas and whether or not it would not now @be proper to return to the old ad valorem prac- tice, which is acknowledged to have been an excel- lent system, and seems to have been given up in 1834, without sufficient inquiry regarding its practi- cability, when the monopoly of the East India Com- pany was dissolved. We have received a communication this day only from Mr. Tasker, the chairman of the com- mittee of Spanish bondholders,@ and several letters also from other parties interested in Spanish finance. We shall hereafter advert to these communications, and insert such of them as may appear to possess sufficient public interest. The following were the official quotations at the different markets during the day -ENGLISH FUNDS. Bank Stock, 172@ 3 per Ct.  3 pm. Exchequer Bills,  3 p@m. Ditto Small, 2d., 61 3 60  Anns. 30 Years, exp. Oct. 10. 10 26 Colombian 6 per Ct. 1824, 22  3 Colo@mb. 6 pr Ct. 1821 Acc., 22 3 Colo@mb. ex Venezuela, 11 M@exican 1837 Acc., 32 1 Portuguese 5 per Ct. New, 41  Portuguese Converted,  48 9 Cheltenham and Great Western, 20 1 Eastern Counties New, 10@ Great Western, 90 Ditto New, 64 4 Lond.@@ Brighton,@@@  Ditto Scrip, 17   Real del Monte  Bank of Ireland New,  5 Portuguese 3 per Cent., 25 Spanish 5 per Cent., 18  Ditto Acc., 18 Spanish 3 per Cents., 24 Ditto Acc., 24    Lond. and Black@wall, 5  Lon@d. a@@nd Birmingham, 189 Lond. and Bir@m. New, 83 North Midland, 63 Rouen and Havre, 2 South-Eastern and Dover,  state of our markets to-day@@ @has been nothing quoted. LONDON TRADE REPORT.  have not heard of any trans- actions of consequence to-day in either Tea or Tallow. The Cotton market is still firm, and prices perhaps a shade higher. THE MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS. BOLTON.-Counterpanes are in more animated request here, but still manufacturers complain of the low remune- ration they receive for their goods. There is a steady sale for quiltings, fine muslins, and power-loom cloths. BRADFORD.-This being the last market in the year, was formerly not an acknowledged market for pieces, but that custom was abandoned a few years ago, and to-day fully an average business has been done with former seasons, an@d the manufacturers are not without considerable hope that at the commencement of the year an improved demand will take place. There is not any marked alteration for yarns, and the continued short time working keeps the stocks low, and prices very firm. During the last week but little business has been done in the wool market, and the dulness applies to all kinds of long wool. In broke and noils the demand continues steady, and late prices are fully maintained. BARNSLEY.-Manufacturers continue to have a good business doing. The linen trade is firm fancy drills are brisk and weavers have moderate employ. HALIFAX.-We cannot report any alteration in this market, either as to manufactured goods, or the raw ma@- terial. Sales of both proceed steadily, and prices are quite firm. Generally speaking, people are inclined to regard our prospects as, on the whole, favourable.  is still most unpromising and unsatisfactory, and no prospect of an amendment, un- less there is a revival with the new year but at the close of the year business is always slack and seemingly lingering  till the arrival of a fresh period,  vigour, and we hope such now  silk trade of Failsworth is yet very dull upwards of one-half of the operatives are without work, and the others only partially employed, at lower wages than last Christmas but many are of opinion that in less than a month there will be a brisk trade. LEEDS.-Trade has been very dull and gloomy this week sales have been very limited, and prices ruinously low. There is a general expectation of an improvement with the new year, which we hope may be realised to its utmost ex- tent. Wool and Indigo are rather looking up. In the warehouses business continues slack.  have had an extensive inquiry for most kinds of cloth this week, at an advance on most de- scriptions, and the market closed very buoyant. Should the commercial news from China and India be favourable by the next mail, we may hope for a still further improve@- ment. Twist is unusually firm, though not generally higher, and many spinners refuse to sell unless at an ad- vance. On the whole, we are this week decidedly more healthy.@ there was but a thin attendance of @@@@buyers in the market, there has been a very fair demand@@ for fl@annels, considering the time of the year. For some months back pieces have met with a ready sale, but the@@ manufacturers have not been able to obtain an advance in  of duty paid, £3,473,951. In 1842 the stock on hand of Company's Con- gou, on the 30th of November, was 8,400 chests the highest price 2s. lowest, 1s. 5d. stock at close of the year, about 34,000,000 lbs. quantity taken for home consumption, 36,000,000 lbs. quantity de- livered for exportation, stated at 4,000,000 lbs. The sum paid annually by the consumers is stated at about £9,000,000 sterling, whereof £3,500,000 is paid to the Crown for duty, a large portion of the remainder to the importers, and the remainder is the profit divided between the wholesale and retail dealers. The extraordinary excitement and specu- lative action in the tea market, during the years 1839, 1840, 1841, and 1842, are well and graphically described in this pamphlet, a speculation that had its peculiar and distinctive features. The quarrel, of a deep and angry nature, which took place be- tween the English merchants and the authorities at Canton, led to an impression of war, and to an ex- pectation of the continuous suspension of the trade. The dealers bought large surplus quantities, retired  after the 6t@h of January. The wool market still remains heavy the dealers expecting a rise from an increased demand for goods, and the manufacturers being unable to give an ad- vance until they are enabled to sell their pieces propor- tionably higher. COURT CIRCULAR. WINDSOR-SUNDAY. Y@esterday morning the Queen and Prince Albert  afterwards the th usual, afterwards the Prince rode into the Great-park, on a shooting excursion, attended by the Marquess  Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, Lady Fanny Howard, and the Earl and Countess of Haddington joined the royal dinner circle in the evening. This morning her Majesty and @Prince Albert, her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent, and the household attended divine service in the Private Chapel of the Castle. The Rev. John Vane officiated, and preached a sermon from the 11th verse of the 5th chap. of the 2d Epistle of St. Paul to the Corinthians. In the forenoon her Majesty and Prince Albert walked out, and again promenaded in the afternoon, attended by the suite. @@@@Their Royal Highnesses the Prince of Wales and the  Princess Royal were taken an airing. Sir Robert Peel and Lord Stanley are expected at the Castle early next week, on a visit to her Majesty.  of strangers to the market plunged into it through the agency of  took an airing in an open phaeton on Friday, in the drives adjacent to her residence, Canford-house, Dorsetshire. Her Majesty has taken frequent airings during  the speculation soon exploded, articles were driven up like rockets, and exploded with the same rapi- dity but the late speculation in the tea market had an existence of nearly three years. Twice was peace proclaimed, and twice did the war recommence but with the @same result @as regarded the trade, which was kept open. Tea was twice at 1s. 5d. and twice at 3s. 2d., with innumerable oscillations between these extremes. The speculation, says our au- thor, although unfortunate and disastrous in its re- sults, yielded at different periods large profits. Some few but very few embraced them, and quitted the field. The large majority, although they occa- sionally quitted, yet returned and floated on with the tide, which frequently rolled back with magic speed to low water mark, without leaving time to escape. This passage is rather a figurative way of telling that, although a few of the speculators sold at a profit, the bulk of them held on or renewed their ventures, and were, eventually,@ left in the mud, se- verely punished. The writer of this pamphlet, we observe, does not think that the trade, for a length of time to come, will to any extent be removed from Canton, because hitherto the Hong at Canton have advanced a large portion of the price to the tea mer- chants before they left Canton for the tea districts to purchase for the ensuing season. He does not expect that the opening of Amoy and other ports near to the place of growth will be fairly accelerated by the Chinese government and although the treaty of Nankin stipulates that a tariff shall be ad- justed on regular and just principles, he puts small faith in that stipulation, because, in the case of England and France, the duties that ought to be paid upon a bale of cotton twist and a puncheon of brandy have not yet been decided. There is a vast difference, however, between the two cases. Not only the difference that exists as between a civilised nation, standing on the vantage ground of conquest over its humbled opponent totally unacquainted with the forms of European diplomacy, but there is the difference, also, that the treaty of Nankin is the sequence of peace between China and England whereas the commercial treaty with France was broken off by a coldness between France and Eng- land, which at one period wore a belligerent aspect. We expect that the conditions of the treaty of Nan- kin will be practically carried out, and that a tariff @@on regular and just principles will accordingly be adjusted. We look for that adjustment on the basis of fair reciprocity, and should this expectation be realised, the admission of British ships to the ports of the tea districts will speedily effect a great improvement in the tea market of China while it must, at the same time, produce a corresponding diminution in the price, free on board, by saving the expense of land carriage now incurred in trans- porting the commodity to Canton. The author of the pamphlet does not touch upon the policy of the present mode of levying the tea duties in this country-a defect, we think, in his @work that we wish he would yet supply. He in- forms us that there are about 1,200@ chests, or  daily in the@ recent favourable weather. The Duke of Cambridge visited her Royal Highness the Duchess of Gloucester on Saturday, at Gloucester-house. Mr. Masterman, M.P., and a deputation, had an inter- view with t@he Chancellor of the Exchequer on Saturday, at his official residence in Downing-street. Count @Reventlow, the Danish minister, transacted busi- ness on Saturday, at the office of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Everett, the American minister, @has returned to town from a visit to Lord Ashburton. His Excellency trans- acted business on Saturday at the office of the Board of Trade. Despatches were sent off on Saturday evening from the Colonial-office, for the Governor of Ceylon.  Correspondent. -Canford-house, Friday.-Her MAJESTY continues to enjoy excellent health, and during the week, owing to the prevailing fine weather, has almost daily taken carriage airings in this neighbourhood. His Serene Highness Prince EDWARD  who arrived on Saturday on a visit to his illustrious aunt, left on Tuesday to join his regiment at Winchester. Sir  physician in ordinary to her MAJESTY, arrived on Saturday, and has since been staying here. We hear that his Royal Highness the Prince of WALES has been suffering from teething, but in other re- spects he is quite well. The  be- come much stronger lately. The  give his usual de- jeuné to the judges, @c., on Wednesday, the 11th instant, the first day of Hilary Term. His lordship was in town on Saturday to affix the great seal to the treaty of peace be- tween this country and China.  coming of age of the Hon.  of Lord and Lady  heir of the noble houses of Perth and Willoughby, in Scotland, andof Gwy- der, in Wales, has occasioned unusual rejoicings on the family estates in the north, and in the principality. At Muthill, a populous village, about a mile from Drummond Castle, Perthshire, the inhabitants evinced their respect to the family, by making Monday last a general holiday. There was a dinner of the principal tenants and feuars at the Masons'-hall. The Hon. the Master of  The inhabitants of Crieff had a public dinner, at which Viscount  to have taken the chair, but was prevented by a slight indisposition. Mr. A. CAMPBELL, M.P., Sir  Bart., and about 150 gentlemen, were present. In Wales there was an equal mark of esteem displayed by the tenantry. The public din- ner at Carnarvon, on Tuesday, was most numerously at- tended. At Llanrwst triumphal arches were erected, and two oxen were roasted whole in the market-place, and distributed amongst the poor. There was an entertainment at the Town-hall, at which nearly 300 dined, in addition  The poor of Dolwyddelan,  six bullocks divided amongst  tenantry celebrated the event by a public dinner on Monday, and a ball on Thursday last. Earl SPENCER has been entertaining a few select friends at Althorp-park, since his return from the Duke of BEDFORD'S, at Woburn Abbey. Lord  on a visit to the noble lord, and the Hon. Cap- tain and Mrs. F. SPENCER, Hon. Captain and Mrs. WAT- SON, c., have arrived. The Duke and Duchess of RICHMOND and family have been seeing company at G@oodwood during the week. The Duke and Lady  arrived at Good- wood on Saturday week, from a visit to Lord WARD, at Himley Hall. The Right Honourable Sir  ex- pected to leave Drayton Manor, for Windsor Castle, to-day, @having received an invitati@on to @join the roy@al circle. THE MAGAZINES FOR THE MONTH. New Year's-day is@ a positive day of delight to the maga- zine reader. All his customary channels of amusement and information are full of promise if they are full of nothing else, though, to say truth, most of them do their little best to set as good a face as possible on the first num- ber of a new volume, and poetry, politics, and pleasantry are all burnished up for the festive season. The Tory ma- gazines are particularly strong in their politics this month, and Blackwood and Fraser come forth with their respec- tive lucubrations, which harmonise about as well as the Tuesday's leader in the T@imes does with that which was printed on the preceding Monday, and which is probably forgotten by all the world, save, perhaps, by some rival editor, who enlivens the public by exposing the proverbial consistency of Printing-house-square. Blackwood's leading article for January is modestly en- titled, Great Britain at the Commencement of the Year 1843. It is a dissertation, which, by the aid of a multitude of facts, for which the writer stands indebted to his imagi- nation, and by a convenient oblivion of others that might have been troublesome to a more retentive memory, makes out a tolerable prima facie case for his clients. Thus, the desperate policy which led our heaven-born mi- nister to impose the property-tax upon the peo- ple is boldly ascribed to the empty condition in which he found the public coffers. Not a syllable is said in allusion to the plan by which the late government proposed to replenish those coffers, by opening the Brazils and the Baltic to British commerce. These are things it is convenient to forget. On the other hand, it is thought fair to assume that the Tory advent has alone sufficed, not only to inspire all foreign nations with a salu- tary dread, but also to conjure fulness into the Treasury purse. Yet the last revenue returns presented no such consoling news, and a few days must yet elapse before we can know what the January tables may have to tell us. As to the future views of Sir Robert respecting the sliding- scale, Blackwood is evidently in an uncomfortable state o@f suspense. That some further alteration, he says, may not ere long be made on the scale of duties, no one can assert, though we have no reason to believe that any such is at present contemplated but that the principle of the @'sliding-scale,' as it is called, will be firmly adhered to, we entertain no doubt whatever. The principle of the sliding scale! Where is its prin- ciple@? You may alter the scale of duties till you take away the last vestige of the farmers' fancied protection. By mul@- tiplying rests you may approximate nearer and nearer to a fixed duty, and yet your minister will remain a man as firm in principle, as distinguished for consistency, as before he traversed the floor of the house, or was pushed by the deluded farmers of England into a mischievous power, the effects of which they have since felt in common with the rest of the Queen's subjects. The late law appointments, too, must be defended. This is a ticklish matter and Blackwood, conscious of what awkward ground he has got upon, runs away at once to take shelter in the old worn out cant, that men making their thousands at the bar are not to be tempted into office by such paltry salaries as £1,500 a year! From which it is intended, we should infer, that all those lawyers who surpass Lord Lyndhurst's protegés are making rapid for- tunes by their profession@! Passing on to foreign politics, it is but just to say that Blackwood has manliness enough to scorn the base lies and drivelling nonsense which have been put forward with a view to make the simple part of the public believe that our quarrel with China was entered on in order to force the opium trade upon the Celestial Empire. This atrocious calumny, invented originally for factious purposes, has been eagerly taken up by a hostile press abroad, and by a vast number of dunces at ho@me, but is calculated to impose only on those whose intelligence or information is at an amazingly low ebb. The thing is worn out, however, and Blackwood, by throwing the stale commodity overboard, @shows that he addresses himself to the better portion of his party. But here are his words - Were we justified in our attack upon the Emperor of China? We have no hesitation whatever in expressing our opinion, after having had our attention for some years directed to the subject of our relation with China, in the affirmative. From the moment of our first intercourse with that people, we have had to submit to a series of indignities sufficient to kindle into fury the feelings of any one whe merely reads any authentic account of those indignities. The Chinese have long derived an immense revenue, toge- ther with other great advantages, from us encouraging us to embark a vast capital in our trade with them, and to form great permanent establishments dependent upon it. Language cannot describe the degrading circumstances under which we have been forced to carry on our com- mercial intercourse with the Chinese our long submission to such conduct having, of course, insured its continual aggravation. The opium trade, perhaps beneficially, @brought matters to a crisis. It was alleged on behalf of the Emperor that we were surreptitiously, and from motives of gain, corrupting and destroying his people, by supplying them with opium but it is easily demonstrable that this was only a pretence for endeavouring to effect a change in the medium of our dealings with them, vastly beneficial to the Emperor, and disadvantageous to us. And then he proceeds to detail the early history of the quarrel, with tolerable fairness, interspersing his narrative, of course, with a multitude of unsavoury epithets for the Whigs, chequered with divers eulogistic ravings to the be- nefit of which his political friends shall at all seasons be heartily welcomed. The miscellaneous articles of Blackwood are, as they mostly are, well selected. Sincerely do we wish we had as well conducted a magazine on our own side. We have not read Caleb Stukely, but we are assured by those that have been more diligent, that the tale is an excellent one. An Imaginary Conversation, by Savage Landor, is not one of his best, and a paper on the Aris- tocracies of London Life, is drawn out to a merciless length nevertheless, the former is not without dramatic interest, and the latter contains many healthy truths, though mixed with personal insinuations, the absence of which would not have weakened the writer's general re- marks. Two Hours of Mystery is an amusing tale, and would make an excellent plot for a farce. Talking of farces-Blackwood has actually perpetrated twenty pages of eulogy on Lord Londonderry's last tour! Poor Mar- quess@! Well may he call on heaven to save him from his friends. His silly book was almost forgotten, and here comes an imprudent piece of puffery to tear open the quiet grave, and force the troubled ghost to stalk abroad again. Among the poetical contributions to Blackwood this month are some exquisitely sweet lines. Turning to Fraser, we are sorry to say that the number is one that we have looked, through with disgust. The poli- tical article our eastern policy , is written in all that odious spirit of mingled Toryism and Chartism, in which the vul- garest portion of the self-styled Conservatives have long loved to revel. But we look not for much in Fraser's politics, and seldom find them more insipid or less candid than we expect. What in the present number has particu- larly disgusted us is, the leading article Oliver Yorke at Home , the poorest and most vapid of all the bad imitations of Blackwood's once famed Noctes that ever was palmed upon the public. There was a dashing, braggadocio impudence about the said Noctes, but every one was willing to forgive the manne@r of the thing for the rich matter often contained in it. Oliver Yorke, like all vulgar imitators, fastens on the worst parts of his model, and manifests not the least conception of those excellencies that won our applause. Every barn- door ranter can imitate the husky voice and the sudden starts of Edmund Kean, but where shall we look for his lightning glance and the heartfelt pathos which thrilled upon our feelings? Even so, the veriest hack that ever drudged in Grub-street may assume the drunken impu- dence in which Christopher North occasionally indulged but his sparkling humour, his quick judgment of men and things, were his own, and are not to be put on with the same ease with which a swell-mob dandy dons the cast-off finery of a peer. Men of sense may sometimes tolerate the excesses of a convivial table, for the sake of the choice spirits assembled there but who would not shun the noisy orgies of a gin-shop, enlivened by no better mirth than the second-hand impertinence of a quality footman@? The Monthly Magazine continues to promise well. As the only Liberal Miscellany in the market, it may be said to enjoy a kind of monopoly, but its corps of contri- butors must be strengthened, or it will not do the cause all the good we have a right to expect. The Farmer's Fire- side, the first of a series of Corn-law Tales, is well-timed, and seems to come from a new hand that will improve with practice. The introduction of Mr. Cobden among the dra- matis personae is clumsily managed, but the rest of the tale is good, and exemplifies the protection of the corn-laws with a good deal of force. The remaining articles are well chosen. Nursery Rhymes for Sucking Politicians is not a bad idea. Here is one of the lullabies intended for Sir Robert's particular use - Slippery Bob to the farmers did hie With a tale 'bout easing their misery And as the poor farmers did cling to his tail, He led them a dance on the sliding scale. 'Hold tight now,' says Bobby, 'you much-injured elves,'-@So slipp'd off, and left them to slide by themselves. They slid in so swiftly, that scarcely@ alack! Could one of them stop till he fell on his back. Oh fie, foolish farmers! you made a fine job, Of clutching the tail of sly slippery Bob. Facts and Figures of General Interest seems intended to form a standing article in the Monthly, and is deserving of more extension. Upon the whole, the periodical is one that the Liberal party will do well to encourage. Bentley comes out with great strength. Mr. Ledbury's adventures in Islington, are as amusing as those through which we accompanied him in Paris Crowquill's illus- trations are excellent, and Ingoldsby's Legend of St. Medard is alone worth more than twice the cost of the magazine. The rest of the number, to be sure, is médiocre enough. Among what are called literary notices, but @w's  pub- lications, there is a paragraph on Ingoldsby's Legends, which that gentleman ought to resent. The publisher should keep such offensive commendations for the illus- trious obscure of his establish@ment. Ainsworth presents us with a sprightly number. Wind- sor Castle,@@ by the editor, continues its slow progress. The portion in this month's number is strongly spiced with diablerie in the Castle of Otranto style. The Legend of Normandy and a Venetian Romance are also not the best sort of reading just before bed time for nervous young ladies, or for young gentlemen of susceptible timidity. Mr. Blanchard's Dream at Hoplodge, though likewise dealing in the marvellous, is less harrowing in its super- natural incidents, and withal an amusing trifling. Work- ing up Junk is an incongruous title to a sober matter-of- fact history of the British navy. A Frenchman, bent on treating our maritime glory as sheer romance, might have deemed the title suitable enough. The Legitimate Drama in China is a heavy pointless piece of humour. The Metropolitan, like Ainsworth and Bentley, is too much made up of narratives and though, in the present number, there are fewer fragments than in the preceding one, there are still too many by far. Savindroog, a Hindoo romance, has reached the 28th chapter but having read none of the preceding portion of the story, we presume not to express an opinion on its merits. Some of the shorter tales are good enough in their kind, but are none of them of striking excellence. SECOND LETTER FROM LORD NUGENT to the REV. JOHN HARRISON on the CONDI- TION of the AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS. FROM THE AYLESBURY NEWS. Lilies, December 28, 1842. MY DEAR SIR,-Since about three weeks ago, when I availed myself of the sanction of your name in ad- dressing a letter through you to the public on the suffer- ings and wrongs of the labouring poor in our neighbour- hood, I find that the evil and scandal of disproportionately low wages have been increasing. I have carefully con- sulted the opinions and experience of others as to the calculation, in which you and I agreed, of the lowest amount, and the lowest price, of the food and other articles of consumption necessary for supporting an agricultural labourer, in health and strength, through the daily work required from him. Subsequent inquiry and advice have more and more con- vinced me that, in that calculation, I rather understated than exaggerated the result. I guarded myself, however, throughout against being supposed to assess the due rate of remuneration for labour by the measure of what may be ne- cessary for the support of healthy existence. For this would be a principle as preposterously unjust as that of measuring  marketable commodity by a  showed that, even at the present price of provisions, no single man in this neighbourhood  himself in health and strength upon less than 8s. 3¾d. weekly, and no married man with an average family of three children and their mother, upon less than 14s. 6½d. a week, exclusive of harvest wages. I beg those who think that, in this, I overstated the truth, to give their calculation of the necessaries of life and of the cost of these things to the poor at retail village prices. I said that troops of willing and able labourers were wandering through the country seeking in every village and at every door for work, in vain. I said that the labouring popula- tion, in many of the parishes round, in the midst of a re- dundancy of provisions, and after a prosperous harvest, were in a state of destitution, and on the verge of famine the result of a baleful artificial system, ruinous to the farmer, and destructive of the peasantry. I showed from the report of the medical persons who are answerable for the sanatory condition of the poor in the workhouse, that the labouring population are weakened in health, and their lives endangered by the inadequate means of support, the result of low wages. I said that I believeded that farmers generally had little power at this time to employ labourers at fair wages and I implored such landlords as had not deeply considered the question of how much de- pended on them to look well to it now for the sake of humanity, for the sake of justice, for the sake of the secu- rity of property, to consider the case of those whom I know to be reduced to a cruel alternative, between starving with their families, or being driven through despair to degrada- tion. The poor are kindly, honest, and long-suffering in their want but they must not be urged too far in this dreadful trial, or be made to endure to the last, because of the ill-requited patience with which they have already en- dured so much. I declined, in my former letter, to specify examples of misconduct towards the poor, in particular parishes. But it would be trifling with so fearful and so urgent a subject to continue to deal with generalities only, and so perhaps risk the falling under a charge of bringing general accusations without power to particularize. Some wretched men I fell in with, a few days ago. I questioned them. I heard their statement. I inquired into its truth. It has been confirmed to me. They were from the parish of Waddesdon. In that parish a great portion of the labouring poor are without employ, and, therefore, without means of subsistence. Those who are employed are em- ployed according to the iniquitous and ruinous system of wages apportioned to the extent of families, and received for work, under the name of wages,8s. a week to men with families, and@ to single men 4s., the latter allowance being less than one half of what I have shown to be necessary for proper subsistence. I have lately returned from@ pass- ing a fortnight in Leicestershire. I find the general rate of agricultural wages there to be 12s. a week in many in- stances, @13s. in some, higher varying according to the quality of the labourer. And there, coals, a large and most necessary item in the expenses of life, are sold at the rate of 12s. the ton, at the labourer's door. Here the labourer cannot buy them at a less rate than 20s. at the wharf, or in his own village, at the retail dealer's, at a less rate than from 27s. to 30s. the ton in the one case, without deduct- ing the expense of carriage, therefore, at 75 per cent. dearer, and in the other, with that deduction, and the profits of the retail dealer, at from 125 to 150 per cent. dearer. I am entitled, then, to ask, unless it be believed that the Leices- tershire labourer be blindly squandering his money, is the labourer in the vale of Aylesbury justly or honestly dealt with@? @@But the answer given to all this is, that the action of de- mand upon supply must always regulate price. Nothing can be truer, and nothing would be fairer if the principle were universally applied nothing more iniquitous where it is not. I repeat over and over again what I have said so often, notwithstanding the charge of reiterating a self- evident, unvarying, and distasteful doctrine, until I shall find a reasonable answer given to what I believe admits not of controversy, because truth, however evident, un- varying, or distasteful, demands that it should always be kept in mind. If the occupier of land claim, as a right, protection for the value of his produce, if the landlord claim as a right protection for the value of his land, the value of which must be measured by the value of its produce, the labourer has an equal right, he has a much higher right, to protection for the value of his produce, his labour, because he has no capital to stand out for price during its fluctuations. He is day by day dependent on mar- kets which, under the present vicious system, destroy him, impoverish the farmer, and against which only the command of capital can enable any man whose fortunes depend on the value of agricultural produce to wait upon the fluctuations of what seasons may affect but law has rendered ruinously precarious. It, then, he who rents land, or he who lets it, claim pro- tective laws for his produce, but at the same time claim that labour, which gives value to his property, shall remain unprotected and dependent on his demand for it, this is to require, under the name and sanction of law, the power of committing open and unmitigated robbery a power to demand a protected and arbitrary price for the provisions he offers for sale, and to give an unprotected price, subject only to his own wants, for that labour by which those provisions are produced. I wish to see if there be any fallacy in this view of the subject. If there be, I entreat, I challenge, the exposure of it. If there be not some fallacy in it, which I have been unable to discover, a question on which I observe that all attempt at answer is evaded, I repeat that this unequal principle of dealing may be privilege, it may be power, but it is the reverse of justice. I should be dishonest, and a  I were to soften the phrase. Hence instances, like one which came before me this morning, I am sorry and ashamed to say in the parish in which I live, and in which, to their credit I say it, the farmers have generally been more considerate towards the poor than in most of the surrounding ones. A hard-working and good labourer, who is endeavouring to find support for his large family out of the cruelly inadequate wages paid to him by his employer 8s. a week , admitted, when questioned on the subject, that he has been unable, out of that pittance, ever since the setting in of winter, to afford to himself any better nourishment than about three-quarters of a pound of bread each day, with rarely half a poumd of bacon to be divided among his whole family in the week, and that upon this food, as of course must be the case, he finds himself un- able to face his day's work. So long as I shall have the unhappiness of seeing such cruelty inflicted upon the industrious and suffering poor, however unpopular the exposure, by me it shall never cease to be exposed. I live among farmers, I live among landlords, some of whom are considerate, many not. All my habits, all my interests, are bound up with those of the land. But I will not see cruel injustice daily and systematically committed, without raising my voice to make it known and to protest against it. Then, what is the remedy@? I repeat, I believe it rests mainly with the landlords. In the meanwhile the unions have a pressing duty to perform. The inquiry should not be only Can you not get employ@?@@ It should be Can you not, with all due diligence, get employ at wages that will support you@? If not, yon have a right to relief at the public charge. You are a pauper, unable, with all the efforts you can make, to support yourself. How often have I heard employers say I have offered him work. I am ready to give him work. It is an obvious truth-and yet truths, however obvious, often require the stating-that work is no advantage to the labourer. It is the wages of work that he requires. If I say, in the usual phrase, I will give you employ, that is, in other words, @only @@I will be found in every market to take the property of another at their own price and the proprietor would not dis- cover that any great benefit had been done to him. Many an intolerable wrong in practice is done under cover of a fallacy in words. I protest against the specious phrase, He can get work. The duty of unions is to satisfy themselves that he can get proper wages. If he cannot he is entitled to relief from rates. And then the landlord and the farmer together would arrange the means for doing justice, for making the interests of all classes in agriculture a common interest, and in restoring to the land, and to all that live by it, that steady prosperity which it never has known since, and never can know while, laws of fluctuating influence counteract the order of a wise and good Providence, by which all people are enabled to supply each other's wants with mutual benefit to all. I am, my dear sir, with great truth, Faithfully yours,  Rev. John  parish belongs to the Duke of Marlborough, a non-resident landlord.  understand that, in consequence of Sir Robert Peel's income tax, the practice of giving Christmas boxes in this town is well nigh aban- doned. T@hus the poor, as well as the middle classes, feel the effects of this galling and obnoxious impost.-Durham County Herald.., M.P. SIR-Having just read your speech, delivered on the 24th of December, at the dinner of the Blandford agricul- tural meeting, and having recently visited your estate to inquire into, and report on, the condition of the labourers employed by you and your tenants, and also those em- ployed by other landowners and their tenants in your dis- trict of the country, I feel myself constrained to address you thus publicly on some of the topics of your speech. First of the Anti-Corn-law League. You say- Nor is the principle on which the League is founded more odious, as being adverse to the spirit of our constitution, than its pro- ceedings are hateful as being adverse to the spirit of our law. And again you say- The voice of the people of England is not to be bought with money. Petitions, how- ever, are to be procured, and it is not one of the least grievous circumstances which attend those efforts, that the sacred right of petitioning may thus be brought into dis- credit by its abuse. And is it to be believed that £50,000 is requisite to induce the people of England to petition for a matter on which, we are told, they have already set their hearts@? In these passages, Mr. Bankes, you attempt to impress your hearers with the most unworthy opinion of the League you could wish them to be possessed of-the belief that the £50,000 fund is to be expended in getting up parliamentary petitions for the purpose of injuring agriculture. At the same time you profess to have no fear of the League you compare it to the fly on the carriage-wheel, which said See what a dust I'm making and you conclude by saying, Let us take care that the evil day, be it short or be it long, shall not fall upon those who are less able to bear it than ourselves let it not fall on the labourers. We have all, against a rainy day, tight roofs and blazing fires let not these comforts be wanting to the poor. To-morrow, on the great anniversary of Christian thankfulness, we shall each, in our happy homes, enjoy the social circles of relations and friends and, trust me, our own cheerful hearths will seem to burn the brighter when we remem- ber that our cottagers have bright hearths and cheerful circles too. Such professions of kind regard for the poor are not un- usual at the meetings of agricultural societies neither are such fears for the prosperity of agriculture as you profess to entertain, in connection with the proceedings of the League, unusual on the contrary, the commonest features in the proceedings of suc@h meetings as that at Blandford, are the reiterated assertions that the soil of England can only be cultivated if protected from foreign competition and that, above all things, the employment and welfare of the labourers demands that the cultivation of the land should not be endangered. These being the most usual and most forcible arguments put forth in defence of the corn-laws, it became a question with the League to as- certain how far these arguments were well founded. I am one of the individuals whom the council selected to inquire into and report on this important subject. The council deemed it requisite to ascertain as many facts as possible relating to agriculture. They knew that much misrepresentation had gone abroad amongst the farmers re- specting their proceedings in Manchester that much igno- rance pervaded the agricultural classes of all ranks in re- spect of the value of protection to agriculture, and that it was desirable to ascertain what the condition of the farmers and labourers was what the nature of the misrepresentation, what the extent of the ignorance, in order to have both re- moved, by sending lecturers and publications into each district with information and argument suitable to their special circumstances. It was determined that each elector of the United King- dom, and, as far as the £50,000 fund would permit, each non-elector, should have a library of information supplied, which would suffice to displace the ignorance and the mis- representation, and set clearly before the mind of each indi- vidual the whole merits of the corn-law question. To this purpose, Mr. Bankes, and not to the purchase of signatures to the petitions, which you say will bring the sacred right of petitioning into discredit by its abuse, is the great fund of the League to be devoted. And that you may be the better assured that this is the direction in which the money is going, and to some extent has gone, I have to inform you that, in obedience to instruc- tions, I have visited your estate, as also the estates of some other lords and gentlemen who @were with you at the Bland- ford meeting, and have made a report of what I saw, which re- port you will see from time to time in the paper published by the League, called the Anti-Bread-tax Circular. Meantime I have to say that I am truly sorry that every thing I saw on the farm fields, in the farm houses, in the cottages, and all that I heard from farmers and labourers on your property, impressed me with opinions of pour prac- tice as a landlord quite at variance with those you seem to hold in theory. Judging of you by your speech, no man could think otherwise than that you were one of the most liberal patrons of the poor, one who would save the la- bourer from starvation, whether starved by cold or hunger, if you could. We might suppose even more, judging by your speech, we might suppose you to be a zealous pro- moter of every rational measure for the moral advancement as well as physical comforts of your labouring people. I do not say that you have no wish to promote such desi- rable objects. I do not say that you spoke that which you never thought of fulfilling. I can only speak of what I saw on your property but as you conclude your speech by asking leave to add to the old toast of live and let live the words and let well alone, I must presume that you have not changed, nor intended to change, your system, or rather, I should say, your want of system, in managing your extensive property, and in keeping around you a popu- lation the most illiterate, ill paid, and ill fed of any in the United Kingdom. I found your farms cultivated in a very inadequate manner. You exercise a power over your tenantry in re- spect of tenures and political subjugation which will pre- vent them from farming your land as it should be farmed, even if they were the most enlightened tenantry that ever cultivated the soil. But instead of being men of intelligence and enterprise, they are as much the reverse as can well be imagined. The  in public of making the hearths of the labourers cheerful and warm, you either know or should know, that throughout the higher districts of Dorsetshire coals are a luxury which no labourer can afford, save in very small quantities. When wages were higher last year by one or two shillings a week than this year, your labourers in their miserable hovels, which have neither tight roofs, nor tight doors,@@ nor tight any thing but tight rents and pinching hunger to dis- tinguish them-in those hovels your labourers were without fires, save when cooking their scanty meals and this year, when coals are still as dear, you talk of the warm hearths of the labourer and his cheerful society as things to be preserved by keeping off the evil day. If such was not your meaning, if you meant that the labourers of your own and your neighbours' estates are already so poor that they cannot have warm hearths and cheerful meals, without charitable assistance, if your speech was intended to prompt your neighbours to join with you in making the firesides of the labourers glad during the holi- days by such charitable assistance-how can you and your neighbours be satisfied at having a population swarm- ing around you so poor and wretched@? How can you justify the reduction of wages which has so generally taken place? @@What avails it that you pathetically ask the gentlemen around you to save the labourers from the evil day, when in times like the present, which you acknowledge to be fair times, all things considered, your tenants are annually screwed by a rack-rent, and, as a natural consequence, screw all they can out of their labourers to pay such rack-rents? I have seen your labouring people in full employment without a change of clothes. I have seen the merest remnants of blanket rags to cover a family of six children, with their hardworking father and mother. I have seen working men on your property, who declared to me they did not taste butcher's meat for six months, that potatoes and lard, the latter in small quantity, and greens, and anything of that sort @@-such was their own expression-with one-half less bread than they could eat that this meagre food was their sole diet for months together. And how can it be otherwise, Mr. Bankes, on six, seven, and eight shillings a week@? Those who had eight shillings last year are reduced to seven this how, then, can you speak of saving from the labourers the evil day@? In Dorsetshire, whatever the changes may be in other counties, no change takes place in respect of the labourer, but a change to perpetuate the@@ evil day to perpetuate this day, despite all other favouring circumstances. I talked with wives, mothers, and fathers of families on your estate, who all told me that during the recent years of high priced provisions they had not been able to buy, save in a very limited degree, new clothes several of the families had not purchased a single article of dress for three years, so dear had been their food-so low their wages. This year they looked forward with hope to cheaper food for a saving wherewith to buy clothes. But most of them have had their @@wages taken down several had their miserable pay reduced even before they tasted the cheaper food. @Whatever you may choose to say,n misrepresentation of the Anti-Corn-law League, Mr. Bankes, be assured of this, that the League will now prevent you, and those who act with  re- turns made to the Salisbury Registrar, for the current quarter, of deaths which have taken place in the three parishes of the city, exceed the usual average by  other week a vagrant named Trane promised to leave the town it the magistrates would not convict him and he did so, six- pence and a loaf having been given to him. He reached @Harborough, and then retraced his steps to Leicester, hav- ing been fold that our gaol was the most comfortable place in which he could take up his winter quarters! He has accordingly taken lodgings there for a fortnight.-Leicester  rumour is afloat that the Marquess of Westminster purposes making a considerable reduction in his rents, in consequence of the low price of produce, and the heavy burdens that at present fall upon the tenantry.-Chester Chronicle. @ One thousand tickets were issued on Wednesday for the great free-trade festival at Glasgow, which is fixed for the 11th instant.  Saturday last, as a man named Saby, a Burton and Kettering carrier, was riding through Barton Seagrave, with his son, a young man of about 18, an elm tree, standing in the churchyard, tell on the cart, injured slightly the father, and broke the son's back. Some men were employed in felling the tree, and it appears had cut it away on one side, without being a ware that the other was considerably decayed. A rope had been sent for by which to control its fall but before the return of the person sent the tree fell, and at the instant of its fall the unfortunate subjects of the accident were pass- ing by.-Northampton Herald. TRIAL of BESSON for the MURDER of M. MARCELL@ANGE. COURT OF ASSIZES@ OF THE RHONE.  26. Immediately after the opening of the court, M. Bac said that he was desirous, before addressing the jury in reply to M. Lachaud, to put a few questions to M. Borié, the physi- cian of Puy. The President ordered M. Borié to be recalled. The witness having appeared, M. Bac asked him whether he was not at Chamblas on the 2d September for the purpose of performing the autopsy of the body of M. de Marcellange, and whether on that occasion he had not seen Besson, and what was his condition. M. Borié replied that during the whole of the time that he was at Chamblas he saw Besson moving about. He waited upon them at table and witness, as a physician, and for another motive which it was not necessary to state, looked at him particularly. He saw only the recent traces of small-pox, but the idea of Besson being unable to walk had never once entered his mind. M. Bac Then you think Besson was able to walk@? M. Borié I repeat that the idea of his not being able to do so never entered my mind. The Abbé Paul now expressed his wish to rectify the de- position that he had made. The President said he had been twice before the court, and plenty of time had been afforded him to rectify every error that he had committed. The Abbé Paul I have said that Marie Boudon had men- tioned to my servant that she had told M. de Marcellange to be on his guard. I wish now to state that it was M. de Marcellange himself who told me that Marie Boudon had made use of this language to him. M. Bac now rose to reply to M. Lachaud. His speech, which lasted three hours, was very brilliant and powerful, but necessarily in a great degree a repetition of what he had said in his first address. He  forcibly upon all the depositions which tended directly or indirectly to show that Besson was not in the condition of health at the time of the murder represented by the counsel for the de- fence, and that there was consequently no physical imposs- sibility of his having been the murderer. The evidence of  weight with the  examine the evidence for the alibi, and contended that it was altogether a failure. Alluding to Mme. de Mar- cellange and her mother, who had not ventured to make their appearance on the present trial, and to the excuse which had been set up for their defence, he denied that they had any reason to dread the excitement which it was said had been got up against them, or that they were the victims of calumny. Their absence, said M. Bac, was to be attributed to other motives. They dreaded the search- ing interrogations to which they would be subjected. He noticed as a striking fact that these ladies, who at the assizes for the Puy de Dôme had sworn so positively to an alibi, had not been so positive until the necessity of such evidence in favour of Besson became necessary, as the only means of saving him. Madame de Marcellange, in a deposition which she had made relative to Arsac, had said she thought Besson was at Puy on the evening of the 1st of September. He concluded by expressing his conviction of the guilt of Besson, and of the impossibility of coming to any other opinion from the evidence which the jury had heard on the present trial. M. Lachaud rose to reply, but he had not proceeded far, when, from the fatigue of his previous exertion, he was evidently in an unfit state to continue, and applied to the court for the indulgence of an adjournment until the following day. The President said that, notwithstanding the length of time which the trial had already occupied, he was very wil- ling to consent to the application of the learned gentleman, if he felt confident that his indisposition would not prevent his resuming his arguments on the next day. M. Lachaud said he had every reason to hope he would be able to continue his address on the following day but, should he be unable to do so, he would confide the task to one of the gentlemen who were engaged with him for the defence. The President then adjourned the court until next day at nine o'clock. NINTH DAY, DEC. 27. The court was again crowded to excess. Whilst the usual formalities of the opening were going on, it was whispered that Mme. de Marcellange and her mother were at Lyons, and that domiciliary visits had been paid to several houses, in the hope of discovering them, and inducing them to ap- pear. All attempts to find them, however, had been fruitless. It was added that M. Vincent Saint Bonnet, one of the counsel engaged for them, had only consented to give his assistance on the express condition that they would make their appearance in court. When Besson was brought into court every eye was  who was under surveillance, on the charge of having deposed falsely against Besson, appeared to be al- most overcome with emotion. He sighed frequently, and raised his eyes to Heaven. Arsac was as animated as ever, apparently indifferent to everything but the notority of his position. Jacques Bernard, the other man, who was con- demned for perjury in favour of Besson, at Riom, remained in his usual state of apathy. M. Lachaud, on rising to address the jury, thanked the court for its indulgence in adjourning the proceedings on ac- count of his indisposition, and said he trusted he should now have sufficient strength to go through the task, and convey to the jury his own conviction of the innocence of the pri- soner. The learned gentleman then went through the re- mainder of the evidence for and against Besson with the same tact and skill as he had already evinced, commenting upon the weak points of the testimony for the prosecution, and bringing forth, in the strongest possible manner, all that could tell to the advantage of his client. When he had concluded, he again alluded to the absence of Mme. de Marcellange, and her mother. He said M. Bac has re- marked on the flight of the ladies of Chamblas, and has told you that, if they were not the accomplices of Besson, they would have been here. To me, however, it appears, that their absence is the gravest obstacle to the acquittal of Besson. I will reverse the argument of the partie civile, and say that, if the ladies of Chamblas were the accomplices of the prisoner, they would not, dreading any disclosures which he might make in their absence, have quitted him for an instant. Would they not, if they were his accomplices, be constantly at hand to urge him by their looks to persevere in a system of delegation@? On Friday last I wrote to them to sum- mon them to Lyons, and to appear before you. I had hoped that they would have complied with the urgent re- quest that I made, but they are not come. They are cowardly, it is said-they are cowardly. And who is it that says this@? You, Monsieur Turchy de Marcellange-you who are courageous. You have had the good, or rather the ill, fortune, for it will cost you dear one day, to cause your hatred to pass into the conviction of an honest man M. Bac , full of talent and ardour. He is a man of feeling. He saw you weep, and wept with you, and when he weeps he is unable to detect the guile which is con- cealed by the tears of another. Having succeeded with him, you charged him with a terrible mission, and, as his convictions are profound, he has performed it in a terrific manner. He has crushed these unfortunate women with all the weight of his eloquence. I have read the speech which he made at Riom. I have heard his speech here, and I can appreciate the force of the calumnies which he has heaped upon these ladies. And you think it is a difficult thing to calumniate, M. Truchy de Marcellange! If the ladies @of Chamblas were not simple and pious women if, when they heard of your calumnies, instead of falling on their knees before God to implore from him strength to resist and pardon, they had followed you to the fi@eld of calumny, do you think they would have found it difficult to reach you? I have addressed grave reproaches to you, but there is a feeling for which I give you credit. I am sure yon regret the death of your brother, and that it has filled your mind with grief. I se@e that you have fraternal piety. And yet, if the ladies of Chamblas had been desirous of calumniating you, they mig@ht have done so they might have set up against you the most monstrous, the most calumniatory accusations. Do you know what they might have said to you? They might have said that the most strange and sinister presentiments agi- tated you that you had almost fixed the date of the dea@th of your brother. I know that this would have been mon- strous, for I bow before your fraternal love, but I am desirous that you should be made to comprehend fully the extent @of evil, of which calumny is capable, the evil you have com- mitted and that which might have fallen upon you had you in your turn been accused, and which calumny would have been the more terrible on account of your strange presen- timents, you having fixed, as it were, the period of your brother's death, with the fact added to all this, that at the time when you were speaking thus, a will had been made in your favour. I am willing to admit that all this  am willing to acknowledge that you  vailed in court. The registrar called over  n@ames of the witnesses, who came in crowds to  al- lowed by the law for their attendance. Most of them, as soon as they had received their @money, quitted the court, apparently indifferent as to what might be the result of the deliberation of the jury. At the end of an hour the jury returned and, having taken their seats, the President said, Upon my honour and my conscience, in the presence of God and man, the declaration of the jury is on the first question-Is the ac- cused guilty of having, in the evening of the 1st September, 1840, committed voluntary homicide on the person of M. de Marcellange in his chateau of Chamblas?-Yes, by a majority on the circumstance of premeditation and sur- prise, Yes, by a majority. No declaration of extenuating circumstances was made by the jury. M. Bac This is a sentence of death. Besson, who had been removed from the court when the jury retired, was now brought in again. He was exceed- ingly pale, almost inanimate. Arsac and Bernard, who had been removed with Bessen, were not brought back. The verdict of the jury was now read to the prisoner. He heard it without uttering a word. The Procureur-General called upon the court to pronounce sentence of death, and to declare in the interest of society, by way of example, that the execution should take place in the public square at Puy. The President Accused, have you anything to say as to the application of the punishment? Besson was silent, but held down his head, and wept. M. Lachaud was at this time absent from the court. Whilst the judges were in their council-room deliberating on the sentence, every eye was fixed on Besson. He re- mained without movement, his head resting on his left hand. He appeared to be suffering great mental agony. The judges having returned, the  found silence, pronounced sentence of death, ordering the prisoner to be executed on the public  Whilst all this sad formality  mattress-maker, appeared to be in a  He scarcely heard the President when he ordered the surveil- lance under which he had been placed to cease, and that he should be set at liberty.@@ @@@@@@Besson was remove@ by the gendarmes. He was at thi time in such a state that he  reaching a waiting-room to which prisoners are first taken when they are removed from the court,  a little courage. He struck his  his right hand, and said For all that, the whole of what my counsel said was the truth@@. A Lyons letter of the 28th states, that  of his intention to appeal to the Court  against his sentence. ASYLUM FOR FEMALE ORPHANS. TO THE  OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE. SIR-There are eleven candidates for the vacant morning preachership to this institution. The right of election lies in the governors, who, fortunately for the interests of the charity, constitute a numerous body. Ten of the reverend gentlemen who aspire to the preachership have made the canvass which has taken place on all former occasions o a vacancy in this office. The eleventh clergyman has offered to serve gratuitously, so long as he may be unbeneficed provided the governors will spare him the trouble and ex- pense of soliciting their votes in his own person, or through his friends. This offer has been blazoned to the world in the columns of the John Bull newspaper. I, therefore, as one of the feel justified in making my comments upon it. The writer says, Nor, perhaps, should we have even alluded to the subject, but for the desire eventually to serve this excellent  well as to render @'the honour due' to one of tho@se clergy- men, more particularly since we have been credibly in- formed that, though without any professional emoluments, or private fortune beyond what is absolutely necessary for a comfortable subsistence, he has, in the handsomest man- ner, spontaneously offered to the asylum his gratuitous services@ so long as he shall continue unbene- ficed. We have already stated the condition. Now, sir, it appears to me, that no honour is due to the reverend gentleman for this proposition, and that it is the very reverse of handsome. First, it is unfair towards his reverend brethren, the ten other candidates. They must necessarily in @great part belong to a class of the clergy, many of whom have not that private fortune neces- sary for a comfortable subsistence, and, therefore, though at least as disinterested as this gentleman, as zealous in their ministry, and as anxious to do good to the poor, could not afford to labour without the hire which has been appointed for the office they solicit, by the governors of a well-managed charitable institution. Thus, though amongst them there might be in every respect more eligible can- didates, if this very suspicious liberality upon the part of one whose time is unemployed, and whose comfort- able subsistence is assured-were to be permitted, they would be all driven from the field. Nor, in point of fact, can I see any more liberality or gentlemanly conduct and feeling in this handsome offer than if, in my own pro- fession, I were spontaneously to offer my gratuitous ser- vices to a public company in a suit at law. If I did so, however I might-and however sincerely I might-allege my belief in the excellence of the company, I should re- ceive no credit for disinterestedness, and no gentleman would be disposed to honour me, either in private so- ciety, or in public, through the columns of a news- paper. My object would be held to be clear enough. This fellow, it would be said, is without any professional emoluments, but he wants to get them and in order to do so, he is resorting to dishonourable means. Now let us look at this unemployed clergyman's case, and see if it differs materially from that I have put with reference to a briefless barrister. He is willing, so long as he shall remain unbeneficed, to give his gratuitous  to a charity, which his advocate in the John Bull informs us is under the immediate patronage of the Arch- bishop of Canterbury!!-the Duke and Duchess of Cam- bridge being the president and patroness. It is also sup- ported by several ladies of distinction as vice-patronesses while among the vice-presidents are Sir R. Peel!!! Lord Lyndhurst!!! the Bishop of Winchester! the Bishop of Lincoln! Lord Bexley, @c.@ c. Now, sir, let me ask, is there a clerical office in London in which a man of ability would be more likely to preach himself into a benefice than this preachership to an institution, which numbers amongst its presidents and governors those in who@se hands is so very large a portion of church patronage@? And is the offer upon the part of an unemployed clergyman, with means of comfortable subsistence, to serve gratuitously the effort to procure professional advancement and reward, so disinterested and so very honourable to him as it has been described by his panegyrist in the John Bull@? One more question. If a cadetship in the Honourable East India Company's service be worth £100, how much would this preachership be worth to one properly qualified to dis- charge its duties@? I am, sir, your obedient servant, A BRIEFLESS BARRISTER. Temple, January 1, 1843. TO THE  OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE. SIR-On seeing a paragraph in the Saunders's News Letter of this morning, copied from your paper, and signed an Irish Amateur, in which my name is mentioned, I lose not a moment in begging that you will be kind enough to correct one error which gives me much uneasi- ness, wherein it@ states that the committee for erecting the column in Trafalgar-square obtained a copy of the statue by Kirk, in Sackville-street, to serve as a model of their figure. Your correspondent most have been misin- formed, as I never knew or heard of such an occurrence. By your giving this an insertion in your valuable paper you will greatly oblige, sir, your very humble servant,ant, THOMAS KIRK, Sculptor. 21, Jervis-street, @Dublin, December 29, 1842. @This morning, @at ten o'clock, this session commences in the Justice-hall, Old Bailey, being the ninety-ninth, and the third of the present mayoralty. Considering the short interval since  of the last session the calendar is numeri-@  from interest but why do you think the ladies of Chamblas were more capable of it than yourself@? Learn, M. Truchy de Marcellange, that the calumny of which you are guilty may be turned against yourself. The ladies of Chamblas are pious women, and they must have been so to submit without recrimination to the disgraceful position in which you wished to place them. These poor women must have been full of mercy not to have thought of turning upon you the weapon which you have so cruelly employed against them. M. Lachaud now adverted to the evidence which had been given as to the appearance of a mysterious stranger in the neighbourhood of Chamblas six days previously to the murder, for the purpose of showing that, as far as suspicion went, it was reasonable to suspect this person of the crime which was attributed to Besson. Al- luding to an observation that had been made on the other side, of his having spoken favourably of Arsac, he said I have not said that I admired his character, his senti- ments, his acts but what I have admired is the force, the energy of his nature, derived from a solitary life in the midst of rocks, the elevation of mind and intelligence-The Procureur-General Permit me, M. Lachaud, to observe that public morality is in danger from such obser- vations. M. Lachaud Be not alarmed, sir. I am not of the school which deifies crime. I am not one of those who pardon everything in greatness, of whatever kind. I do not bow before great criminals. The learned gentleman concluded his powerful address by saying to the jury - I pray God, at this supreme moment, to inspire you with a conviction of the innocence of the un- happy man at the bar, in order that you may restore him to his family, and to the brother, who is now behind me, and who is come for him from his native mountains. I have  still suffering severely from indisposition, now sat down in a state of exhaustion. During the whole of the speech of M. Lachaud, Arsac, Bernard, and Bérard, listened with the most profound at- tention. Arsac was especially attentive. At the different phases of the arguments he frequently smiled,  sionally nodded approbation. His eye was brilliant, and his countenance was at times full of emotion and intelligence. The Predident Besson, have you anything to add in your defence? Besson rose, and advancing towards the President, re- plied in a firm voice, No, M. le President. The President then summed up the evidence on both sides, leaving out all that had no direct bearing on the ac-@ cusation@. At one o'clock the jury withdrew to deliberate on their verdict@@@@. @@The questions put to them by the court were as follow -Is Jacques Besson guilty of having, on the night of the 1st September, 1840, committed with premeditation and sur- prise, voluntary homicide on the person of @Louis Villehardin de Marcellange@? Is Jacques Besson guilty of having, by gifts, machinations, or promises, excited the author or authors of the said murder to commit it, and has he thus rendered himself an accomplice? Dur num- ber committed down to Saturday, there are several under a course of examination at the various police courts, some of whom are charged with murder and other heinous crimes. There are also a variety of misdemeanors, which were tra- versed from the late sessions, so that the court will probably be occupied the entire week. The judges on the rota are Mr. Baron Gurney, Mr. Justice Erskine, an@d Mr. Justice Wightman.  adjourned meeting of the inhabitants was held on Friday evening in the spacious room of the Swan Tavern, Mansell- street, @at seven o'clock, the Rev. Mr. Champneys in the chair. Messrs. Cook, the treasurer and secretary for the relief of the unfortunate sufferers, stated that the total amount of subscriptions up to that time was £354 4s. 5d., of which there had been £274 3s. already awarded. After passing various resolutions, to be advertised in the public papers, and a vote of thanks to the treasurer, secretary, and the worthy chairman, for their strenuous efforts on be- half of the sufferers, the meeting, which was both nume- rous and respectable, separated.  Saturday night, shortly after seven o'clock, an alarming explosion of gas took place at the Travellers' Club, in Pall-mall. The explosion sounded as if from the discharge of a piece of ordnance. It was soon discovered that the gas-pipes which run along the ceiling of the billiard-room on the second floor had burst, and the gas igniting had exploded, and tore away a great portion of the ceiling. The fire-engines were in at- tendance very shortly, but fortunately their services were not required, for no fire could be discovered. The damage is estimated at about £100.  reached the head police- office, Great Scotland-yard, yesterday, of the following ex- tensive burglary -At an early hour on the previous morn- ing the dwelling-house of Messrs. James and John Smith, known as Monkton Farm, situate in the parish of Brough- ton Gifford, in the county of @Wilts, was feloniously broken into and entered by four persons. A variety of things were stolen, chiefly consisting of gold and silver articles, amount- ing to a very great sum of money. The whole of the offen- ders are @at present unknown, but to aid to their appre- hension a reward of £30 is offered. On the news reaching London, one of the officers of the detective force was in- stantly despatched to the neighbourhood where the robbery was committed, to make inquiries, and to endeavour to de- tect the guilty parties  the 20th, an inquest was held by Mr. Cains, @at the vicarage house, Combo St. Nicholas, near Chard, on the body of Jane Fowler, a young woman of about 19 years of age, in the service of the @Rev. F. L. Moysey. It appeared  that the deceased had lately take very tightly, and had even required   fellow servant to dress herself tightly. On Thursday  taken ill, but nothing  morning when she had dressed herself,  much worse, and before a surgeon could arrive she was a corpse. From an examination of the body, there  to have been an internal  caused death, and a verdict was returned @-@On  of Messrs. Webster, at  boiler, which was a very  mendous crash, 
 of the Jesuits may be well applied to these @@men when once they are done away, religion will reform of itself. The @learned @D Librarian of the University of Cam- bridge, who was abused in his day for being too rea- sonable a Christian, has made so complete a prophecy of the present dangers of the Church, and pointed out so exactly this necessity of enlarging the pale @of ortho- doxy, that I may be well excused for @@incorporat- ing his words with these Essays. These contro- versies, I @ﬂatter myself, says@ t@he Doctor, may still be seasonable and serviceable, towards check- ing that spirit of disa@ﬀection which in every part of the kingdom is visibly exerting itself against the Established Religion, by all the various arts which Popery, Methodism, and In@ﬁdelity can supply the growth of all which has of late years been greatly complained of by the Clergy. For as this increasing evil is owing partly to certain articles, publicly pro- fessed @and imposed by our Church, which are justly liable to exception and partly@ to groundless pre- judices, and false notions of religion in general, con- ceived by the weak, and con@ﬁrmed in them by the crafty so it cannot possibly be cured by any other method, than by placing the co@mmon  of Christians on its right foundation, the G@ospel, and clearing our particular system of it from all just o@ﬀence, and reducing it to its original simplicity and conformity with the natural law or reason of man @which, in all questions whatsoever, is the primary guide and ultimate test of right and wrong, truth and falsehood, to the whole hu@@man  the studious and inquisitive part of the nation, who search a@nd judge of things for themselves, were made easy o@n these points, and allowed to think and speak of the popular doctrines of the Church, what@@ they @ﬁnd agreeable to fact and the testimony of their senses, it would be the most e@ﬀectual means of silenc- ing those uncharitable disputes a@nd dissentions, which are so frequent among us, on subjects generally so tri@ﬂing, as to be unworthy of the@ zeal or attention of a Christian, or so subtle and abstruse, as to be inco@m-@ prehensible to all, and un@ﬁt therefore to @be the ob- jects of faith to any. The arbitrary imposition of opinions naturally creates a reluctance to the recep- tion of them and as in the collision of@ bodies, so of minds, the @repelling force is equal t@o that which im- pells but if opinions were proposed to the public, with a latitude of interpretation, which left every one at liberty to receive them according to his own sense, and to embrace the@m either as true, or to acquiesce in them as expedient it would cut o@ﬀ both the pretence and the inclination to @wrangle about them and we should enjoy them with@ the same ease as we do the common air or water, take just as much of them as we please, without o@ﬀence or injury to any one else. @By this means the virtuous and the liberal would be- come united in a@ﬀection as well as opinion, and live not only with more charity towards each other, but by their example and moderation, would lead the multitude also by degrees into more reasonable no- tions of religious duties so far at least, as to prevent them from being seduced into any extravagance of zeal and principles, either Popish or Fanatical, which might create danger and disturbance to the peace of the kingdom. 3. Much might be e@ﬀected against the increasing in@ﬂuence of the Methodists by rivalling their @own zeal @@but in the present state of the Church tenets, suc@h an activity is not to be expected. I do believe it impossible for the great majority of the Established Church to insist with any vehemence upon the belief in abstruse and useless mysteries and if they did, they would he doing wrong. Make them easy upon the most di@@ﬃcult points, and they will feel more satisfac- tion in being earnest. There might still remain a num@ber of indolent an@d indi@ﬀerent men who would take no pleasure in expounding what they would never take pains to understand but there is no esta- blishment into which such men will not intrude, and it would be enough if the spirit of inquiry and general collision of mind, which would follow a reformatino of the Church, should keep these persons out of the way of publicity and preferment. The present luke- warmness of the Established Preachers is a fertile and @very natural topic of rebuke with the Methodists, who know how to draw their advantages from contrast. For the space of eight years, during which I was at a public school, I recollect perfectly well that I saw two preachers every Sunday, but as to hearing th@em, I cannot speak with any exactness at this distance of time. I do not think either, that I ever heard one of the Bishops preach except the late Dr. HORSLEY, but then I must do myself the justice to say that I have been present at several of their discourses, which must have been highly edifying to the clerk. It is due however to the celebrated Dr. PARR to declare, that when he preached his last Spital Sermon. I heard him in the aggregate for a whole hour, which I conjecture was about half the time in which be favoured the aldermen with his opinions on charity. It must be confessed that the delivery of these gentlemen is not calculated to make very vivacious impressions on the general mind. I say little of that host of poor Curates, who have really so much to do that they cannot exert themselves to any e@ﬀect, or of those nests of luxurious dignitaries who are worse@ than ine@@ﬃcient, @beca@use they do nothing. Many of the misfortunes of the Church are to be found out of it @@foolish parents w@ho worship the gentility of a religious profession, and corrupt pa- trons who worship no religion at all, produce the two Church extremes of poverty and luxury @and nothing but the universal freedom of inquiry will annihilate the slavery and oppression that degrade and defeat the strongest talents. When @the C@lergy have a greater respect for their own consciences@@, they will have a greater respect for t@he proper exercise of their pro- fession and we shall see less of those indi@ﬀerent readers those racers and chasers through the Litany@@ those stop‐watch sermonizers who dispense t@@he Grace of God as if they were bidding you good morning those preachers in short whether feeble or fantastic, who pick their teeth@, as it @were, in God's presence, ridiculous when they are not heard and useless when they are. I myself was witness, in a village north of the town, to a most disgusting instance of this  Works, vol. ii. p. 25
 in price, the labourer would then be bene@ﬁted. This can only be the case when the produce is greater than it is, without any extra expense being incurred by the farmer in raising it. We have a satisfactory proof of this in last year's harvest, which was so unusually abundant. Corn  in price, so that the labourer has paid sixpence and ninepence a stone for his @ﬂour less than he has done within these last four or @ﬁve years, and yet his wages have not been lowered in consequence. And why so ? Because @the quantity of produce was so much greater than  the farmer does not complain of the low price, as the quantity has compensated him for it, he having been at no extra expense in raising it. Here, then, we come to the point. I have estimated the loss of the farmers in this county alone by the game and vermin to amount to 303,750l. per annum. Does it not at once show that, could this loss be prevented, the farmer would raise a greater crop, and that, without injury to him, the price of corn would be lowered for the bene@ﬁt of the agricultural labourer? I have also asserted that this preservation of game prevents his @ﬁnding su@@ﬃcient employment. It is clear that if the quantity of land at present in tillage is not su@@ﬃcient, that if more land was under the plough, the agricultural labourer would obtain that employment which he requires. How far I am correct in assuming that we have 128,156 acres of land in plantation and wood in this county, it is impossible for me to say but I can only point out that at four men to the one hundred acres, it would, if in tillage, give employ- ment and support to more than @ﬁve thousand families. I trust you will admit that I have made out a strong case that is, provided that I am not much out in the approxima- tions I have been compelled to resort to in making my cal- culations. As to the extent of injury done by the game and vermin, on that point I am certain that I am correct. Legislators talk of taking the waste lands into cultivation. It appears to me that the preserves are the waste lands. And now then, let us examine into the objections which would be raised. The @ﬁrst observation would be, that you would destroy all the game in the county. I deny it that there would not be so much game of all kinds for sale in the markets is certain. You would have more partridges and fewer phea- sants, for partridges can and do thrive where there are no plantations and although there would no longer be long accounts in the newspapers of battues in which 1,000 of pheasants and hares have been destroyed in one day's shoot- ing, there would still be quite enough for sport, although not for slaughter and sale. The price of game would rise, but that would be of little consequence those who will give 10s. a quart for green peas would not su@ﬀer much by paying a little dearer for their second course. It will be said that the lands which have been planted are bad lands, un@ﬁt for tillage. This is not always the case, indeed very often the contrary but admitting that they were bad land at the time of their being planted, it is well known that after thirty years the deposition of new soil from the decayed vegetable matter will make the worst land good and @ﬁt for tillage in- deed, planting is the most e@ﬀectual method of recovering bad land. Some will assert that we shall have no timber left in the country. This is an idle fear. The destruction of the plantations and preserves does not necessitate the destruction of the timber, which, if @ﬁne, may always be left su@@ﬃcient for a growing crop, and in such case they will re- main as pasture lands, and as such will yield both pro@ﬁt and employment. It may be objected that gentlemen will no longer go down to their estates in the shooting months. Why they should not, if they are fond of the sport, I can- not see as surely the shooting in former times was much more rational than the absurd battues of the present day, when it cannot be an amusement. I may here observe that I have often heard it asserted as very advantageous to the country that the landlords should visit their estates, but I must say that, although some advantage may be de- rived by the butchers, bakers, and shopkeepers, none what- ever accrues to the agricultural population. Is one poor man more employed in consequence of the landlord's coming down to his estate ? Certainly not it is to the farmer, and the farmer alone, that the labourer looks for employ- ment. I have often thought, if measures were taken so as to make the preservation of game to its present extent too onerous for the landlords and give them a fair excuse for returning a large portion of their plantations into till- age, that although they might cry out, in their hearts they would be very glad if such measures were taken. Their pride will not allow them to take such steps at present but give them an excuse, and but too many would gladly avail themselves of such opportunity of getting rid of the expense of keepers, c., and, at the same time, adding hundreds, and even thousands, to their incomes by returning their useless and expensive lands to tillage, and receiving rent for them. And how is this to be done ? At present covers and plantations are only assessed when they are felled but if all untilled lands and preserves were assessed at a higher rate than those which are tilled, the e@ﬀect would be, that if the plantations were still preserved, the tenants and farmers would receive great relief in the payment of rates of every description, or else the lands would be restored to tillage and what with the increased demand for employment in consequence, and the increased produce of the land from the diminution of the game, the agricultural labourer would obtain that relief which everybody admits that he requires, but no one appears to know how to administer. I have in these letters adhered strictly to the cause of the agricultural labourer. I might have entered much more fully into the merits of the case if I had explained many matters between landlord and tenant, of which you appear wholly unacquainted but if what I have already advanced obtains no consideration, it is useless my entering more fully into the subject. For the present, then, I remain, Yours, C., A  LANDLORDS AND GAME. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Wardour Castle, Sept. 10th, 1845. Sir,-Having this moment seen in your paper of the 6th inst. a letter, headed The Agricultural Labourer, ad- dressed to Sir Robert Peel, and signed A Norfolk Farmer, I trust to the motto which the ' Examiner ' bears to ﬁnd me space for this reply. Though the letter to which I allude gives a @ﬂat contradiction to many of the ridiculous assertions put forth by the anti‐Game‐Law men, yet still t@here is so much fallacy in it on some points, combined with an assumed importance by the position in which it appears, tha@t spite of its anonymous character, it deserves notice.@@ @The N@orfolk @Farmer states most erroneously that the landlords assert that they must sell their game to put down poaching. Now the landlords, as a body, have never asserted any such thing. As a body, they were strenuously opposed to the sale of game, ever denied that its sale would have any bene@ﬁcial e@ﬀect in decreasing the crime, and at this hour they would gladly exchange the power of sale to get back again the old protective quali@ﬁcation in regard to the right to kill. It was the anti‐Game‐Law men who forced the private property in game upon the landlords and the public and there is not the shadow of fairness, there- fore, in blaming the game‐preserver for making use of a miserable right, thrust upon him for losses which he deemed and still deems irreparable. It was the anti‐Game‐Law man that told the landed proprietor, that when game was made an article of general consumption and sale, the poacher would be driven from the market. The proprietor replied, that the sale of game would increase the crime sevenfold, and it has done so. The public right to the game and wild animals on the farm is at present vested in the tenant the landlord is obliged to make a private covenant with his tenant to secure the privilege of the game to himself. If a tenant, then, is injured by game or wild animals, it is with his own consent, and by virtue of his sign manual, for the giving of which he stipulates that he shall sit at a reduced rent, to en- able him to face the possible contingency. There is no hardship in this, and it is waste of time, as well as folly, for designing men to assert that there is any error in it what- ever. Protecting game and the privacy of property solely by the Trespass Act will not do. To e@ﬀect each of these objects the law must be made so much more stringent than it is at pre- sent, that a dangerous and unconstitutional and summary interference with the liberty of the subject must be given and however much I may be attached to the sports of the @ﬁeld, against such an un‐English state of tyrannical inter- ference I would ever lift my voice. If private grounds were to be thrown open to the incursions of the idle and disor- derly, by the removal of the laws for the protection of game, a stringent Trespass Act must ta@ke the place of those laws which would be a hundredfold more unpopular, be produc- tive of more frequent con@ﬂicts to the endangerment of life, than the present Game Laws while at the same time not one of the objections urged against the preservation of game would be removed. The supposition of 200 coalheavers, in their begrimed clothes, forcing themselves into the grounds where a fête was given, does not raise the example the Norfolk Farmer seems to desire for a body of men so misconducting them- selves would be guilty of a riot, and at once be within the grasp of the policeman and the law. In this letter it is stated that the people argue thus game wanders about so much that it is impossible to know who bred the game, and therefore who is the rightful owner of it. I may be put into prison by Squire A for taking a hare which did not belong to him, although on his land at the time, as it was born and bred on the land of Squire B. Now, of all shallow illustrations that a writer ever put forth, this is the worst for the law having decided that the game is the property of the owner on whose land it is at the mo- ment found, at all events the people thus made to argue, by the Norfolk Farmer, must know that at least the game is not theirs, and whichever way they get to gaol, they are rightly punished for stealing that about which there is no mistake, and as to which they have no sort of legal right or claim. The property in a sheep does not depend upon who bred it and when this writer further urges that the people say, if game is property, why don't you take more care of your property, and not, by leaving it about, put temptation in a poor man's way ? he seems, singularly enough, to forget that large @ﬂocks of sheep are necessarily left about at times as much as game, and that the laws for the protection of sheep are in@ﬁnitely more severe than those for the care of game, and that it most assuredly is the spirit of all law to be more jealously severe in its provisions for the protection of property, precisely as, from the nature of that property, it is of necessity liable to be left in wild and easily accessible places. By this the charge of too great severity in the Game Laws is at once satisfactorily an- swered. Your correspondent publishes the arguments he says are used on one side, without debating whether they are correct or not, and recommends a vast change in the law, founded on those arguments and on a clamour which he admits may be fallacious. Such counsel savours but little of education or reason. The making game private property, and legalizing its sale, was a very great error. The manifest inattention to the provisions for regulating its sale was a greater error and last of all, the establishment of a private property, and then not putting that private property on the same footing with all other private property, by surrendering it into a similar custody of police, was a crowning folly, which may well be regarded as the patent of much of the clamour now existing. Game is the only property not placed within the custody of the constable. Take the constable's care from any other species of property, and the inroads upon it would far outstrip the theft on game. The watch, the handker- chief, the purse, the pocket‐book, the sheep, the fowl, the fagot, and the potatoe, unprotected by the police, would send to our gaols and prisons criminals, far outnumbering those sent there by the game, in spite of the alleged incli- nation in the heart of man to prey upon fur and feather. The Norfolk Farmer is an excellent aid against the army he himself desires to befriend in the @ﬁeld, and he at once points the danger of breaking in the ice. One step, and then another-the last the nearest to destruction. First, the right of the landlord to the wild animal is assailed, and then the right to plant his tree. The mischief is, that you cannot have pheasants without covers. You cannot have an English ship without the English oak. If you give up the tree you resign the vessel if you yield the claim to the game you infringe the private rights of landed property, and you permit the restless man of change and innovation-the man that recommends an unwholesome concession to crime-to put in a wedge to split the wall as well of the poor man's cottage as of the rich man's  THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Sir,-Were it the case now as it was in the olden time, t@hat learning was con@ﬁned to Clerks almost exclusively, there would appear to be some reason for looking upon the Universities as nursery gardens in particular for the Church but since the general di@ﬀusion of know- ledge amongst all classes, such a reason no longer holds good. But i@@@s not my present object to enter upon the question of the Universities at large, but simply to regard them as places for the especial training of the Clergy. I should be sorry to set down aught in malice of the Universities, or any other assemblages of my fellow‐men but really it is too much when we are generally told, as we sometimes are in Parliament when the privileges, or, as some would call them, the abuses of the Universities ar brought into question-that they are the nursing places of the Church, and therefore procul este profani! The an- swer is farcical. It is my happiness to have known many estimable men at the Universities, and everybody knows that men of the very highest attainments have taken their de- grees there but what has this to do with their being e@ﬀec- tive places for training the Clergy ? Why, I only state what everybody is aware of who has had any experience at the Universities, that those men who came up to College in my time, with a view to orders, owed their @ﬁtness for them, not in consequence of, but in spite of, the system they found there that the good remained good and that the un@ﬁt, instead of being made better as under a proper discipline they might have been, or else been prevented from pro- ceeding further , were only made ten times more the children of hell than they were before. Their University career was looked upon by them as a time for making play whilst they could, knowing that soon they would be obliged to pull in for the rest of their lives on the principle, with some modi@ﬁcation, of Let us eat and drink, for to‐morrow we die -let us take our swing now, for in a few years we must be dead to it all ! Now, shocking as it is, I declare that I have myself heard something of the kind pleaded as an excuse for temporary indulgence at the Universities by one who is now moreover a most active clergyman! And the system tacitly permits such to take their swing and, consequently, has ruined many a man altogether, in ex- ternal circumstances as well as in soul. That colleges, ori- ginally founded for poor scholars, should be so defective in discipline as to produce such enormous evils, is a na- tional crime and that, at the same time, they should be called alma maters of this branch of the Christian Church is so egregiously ridiculous as to be absolutely incredible, did we not know what people will say and think when they have been accustomed to it. It was only last session that the cold and staid Pre- mier-he who so seldom @ﬁnds out an abuse, or at any rate notices it, unless it is forced upon him-gave it as his opinion that the discipline of our Universities was far from being what it ought to be. He said this with- out any reference to their being the training places for the Clergy, but as general institutions for education but if the remark be true of them as such, how much more ap- plicable is it to them as nurseries for the Church. In one sense, indeed, they are nurseries for the Church because Bishops have, with a few exceptions, required an University degree as a quali@ﬁcation for orders, and therefore Clergymen are obliged to go to College and the Universities and the Church become inseparably connected in our minds. And if the system of our Colleges were as it used to be, or as it ought to be if the easy‐living Fellows were compelled to be hard‐working Tutors, in the true sense of the word not only teachers, but moral guardians and companions of the youth committed to their care and if such discipline were enforced to compel regularity, and all unnecessary expenses not only curtailed but prevented all which things might be done then the quali@ﬁcation of an University degree might safely and wisely be re- quired for orders. But even then something else should be demanded of those who are looking forward to the Mi- nistry than a mere University degree-some proof of their @ﬁtness for orders and that the present system of Testi@- monials, whether from Colleges or individual Clergymen, does not meet this want, is manifest from the numerous cases of clerical delinquency which are constantly occur- ring. I will resume this subject, with your permission, on a future occasion. And remain Your most obedient servant,  blessings of the Englishman's Castle. I remain, your most obedient,  the late rather numerous railway accidents have had the bad e@ﬀect of causing much sorrow, alarm, and anxiety, they have also set the minds of men at work to discover methods for obviating the like disasters in future and many have been the ingenious suggestions given to the public through the ' Examiner.' I have thought much upon that class of accidents which has arisen from the engine running o@ﬀ the rails and it appears to me that this might in all cases be prevented by a slight additional expense in the construction of locomotives, the nature of which I will endeavour to explain, in the hope that, through the medium of your columns, it may meet the eye of some practical man, and so prove of bene@ﬁt to the public. I propose that a sub- stantial double rail be laid down midway between the pre- sent rails, somewhat higher in the middle than the other rails, and @ﬂanged as I believe it is called on each side in a slanting direction, in such a manner that a wheel might run on each side of it inclined outwards at about 45 degrees. Also, that the axes of these wheels be @ﬁrmly @ﬁxed to the fore part of the engine. It appears to me that such a con- struction would infallibly keep the engine on the line, and thus obviate those fearful accidents which oftentimes result solely from the cause we are considering. The same mode of construction might for further security be applied to the carriages as w@ell as the engine. I know not whether I have succeeded in making myself understood, which it is oftentimes di@@ﬃcult to do in these matters without the aid of diagrams but I enclose my address in case any of your readers should consider the suggestion worthy of further thought. It may very probably have before occurred to some one, or may even have been made public, but I am not aware of such having been the case. ՓIΛOMHX. VERY SIMPLE, BUT INGENIOUS. The Times has the following- The model of a very simple but ingenious contrivance, for the purpose of enabling the guards of a train to i
 the North. Lot 3. To co@@nsist of t@hat PARK of LAND in the common Sheals, possessed by Robert Milne, surrounded by a low feal dyke, consisting of about two Acres in ex- tent, having a ditch dividing it from John Clark's Lands at the South, t@he@ road leading from Mathewmill to the Shore at the North, John Macandy's Lands on the East, and Alexander Hay's at the West, together with the Leen or Pa@sture Lands as particularly meit@hed and marched, ly- ing to the eastward and westward thereof. Lot 4. To consist of t@hat BANK-FACE in the Brae of @Garmouth, possessed by Alexander Duncan, Wood Merchant there, consisting of about three quarters of an Acre, bounded by John Maca@ndy's Bank at the West, John Brenner's at the East, the top of the Brae at@ the South, @and the Ditch or Stank at the Braefoot at the North, together with a part of a Bank lying to the East- ward thereof, having John Bre@mner's at the West, and that belonging to the heirs of James Duncan, at the South- East. Lot @5. To consist of those TWO @RIGGS in the Sandy Field possessed by the Heirs of Donald Buie, consisting of about Two Acres, bounded by the Lands of John M'Andy at the South, and those pertaining to W@m. Win-hester and t@he heirs of Charles Burgess, respectively, at the North, extending from the Long@ Lands Road at the East, to the Lands of Mathewmill at the West, together with Two Riggs of Ends adjoining the foresaid Two Riggs above described at the North, and towards the West End thereof. Lot 6. To consist of those FOUR RIGGS in the Sandy Field in the possession of Mr James Steinson, consisting of about @ﬁve Acres, having William Thomson's Lands at the North, and the heirs of James Duncan at the South, extending from t@he Long Lands Road at the East to the Lands of  at the West. Lot 7. To consist of those FOUR RIGGS in the @Crosshill, consisting of about two and a half Acres, pos- sessed by Alexander Duncan, Wood Merchant, extend- ing over the Hill in a curved line from t@he Road leading past Mathewmill to the town of Gar@mouth at t@he South, to the Cadger Road at the West, a@nd bounded by Alex- ander @Hay and William Winchester's Lands at the  7. To consist of  to the town of Garmouth, at the South, go@ing cir-@ cuitously over the Hill toward the Cadger Road at the West, having William @Winchester's Lands at the East  Edinburgh, @on the 6t@h of February-to which the prisoner plead@ed Not Guilty. T@his trial occupied the Court till six o'clock in the evening, when t@he Jury returned an unanimous verdict of Guilty, and the prisoner was sentenced to 1@4 years' transportation. W@hile the Constitutional Association, says the@@@ Ne@w Times, is threatened with new attacks by tho@se  able gentlemen, young Mr Whitbread, and Mr Ex- Sheri@ﬀ Parkins, it @has t@he satisfaction of receiving most solid testimonies of a@@pp pe@rsons of t@he high- est rank and respectability. Lord Viscount Pow@ers- court @has made a remittance of no less than £@300 to the funds of the society ! This muni@ﬁcent donation was accompanied with a letter, still more gratifying, if possible, to t@he committee, whose undertaking his Lordship justly designates as a christian, loyal, and constitutional work. Being a native says this nobleman, of another part of @his Majesty's do@mini- ons, where it is my intention always to live, I should not per@@haps have sent a subscription to your Associa- tion, were it not, that at this time it appears to me, that every lover of his God, @his King, and his coun- try, should stand boldly forward to stem t@he torrent of@ in@ﬁdelity and disa@ﬀection. PREMATU@RE INTE@RMENT. Stephen Evans, a Welchman, one of the hands@ of t@he Harriot, of Milford, lying at Wexford, was bu- ried in Selskar Church-yard, at one o'clock in the af- ternoon of Thursday se'ennight. He was supposed to have died on the Tuesday preceding. On Friday two boys climbed t@he wall of the Church-yard for the put- pose of robbing a bird's nest. One of them stood on t@he gra@ve in which Evans was interred, and while the other was ascending for the nest, called out to him that he heard@ a strange noise in the graze, on which they immediately gave the alarm. An immens@e con- course of people soon collected, and the body was dug up, when a spectacle truly horrible presented itself the functions of life had been restored in the co@@ﬃn, but were only restored that the miserable su@ﬀerer might experience all t@he horrors of a lingering death in this most dreadful situation. The struggles of the unhappy victim appeared to have been violent. By a late act of the Senate of New York, habitual drunkards may be proceeded against, the manage- @ment of their estates taken from them, and they placed under the direction of t@he Court of Chancery, as in cases of lunacy. The Report of the Committee of the House of Com- mons on the state of London Bridge, recommends an application being made next session for a new Bridge to be erected, of @ﬁve arches, on the present site, or as near to it as possible. The expence, they consider, may @be defrayed without any toll, the Bridge @House Estates having £112,000 in hand, besides a rental of £@25,000 per annum. Another Tragedy has been received from Lord Byron.  Mo@at and Colin Fowler, do. Alex. Topp @@and  Russel,   OF THE KING'S STAG- HOUNDS. T@he King's stag-hounds were lately brought hither for t@he purpose of washing them in t@he sea. Since their arrival they have been almost daily immersed in the brine of ocean, and on account of growing symp- toms of hydrophobia, w@ere often kept in the water un- til they were nearly exhausted, to ren@der the remedy e@ﬀective. But all would not do-@the evil apprehend- ed a few days ago began so unequivocally to shew it- self, that it became dangerous to enter the kennel.-The matter, of course, was duly reported, and an or- der, in consequence, arrived from the Marquis of Cornwallis, the Master of the Stag-@hounds, for the whole of the pack here to be destroyed without further delay, which order was carried into instantaneous ef- fect, and four-and-twenty couple of the most valuable and best-trained dogs, were presently breathless.-They were dispatched by the whipper-in and feeder, the huntsman, SHARP, could not witness t@he slaugh- ter the voice of every @dog was known to him-he could almost hold a conversation with them. The i@n-@ eﬃcacy of sea-water immersions, in eases of canine madness, is thus amply proved.  Report of the Select Committee of t@he House of Lords on t@he means of extending and securing the Foreign Trade of the Country, has just been printed. Their attention has been directed to the Silk and @Wine Trades. With respect to the latter, the Committee do not feel themselves justi@ﬁed in recommending any ma- terial alteration, until some disposition is evinced by t@he French Government to facilitate such an arrange- ment, by making some concession in favour of articles of British manufacture. They a@dd, however, that it may be worth considering, whether the subst@hution of a Daty ad valor@em, for that which is now taken by measure upon French Wines, would not lead to an in- creased consumption, a@nd contribute, without detri- ment to the Revenue, to the accommodation of the British consumer. In regard to the Silk Trade, the Committee declare, that they are upon the whole of opinion- That it would be highly detrime@ntal to  has so long enjoyed an ex@clusive protection, @@and has been but lately brought to a@ny great degree of  abruptly to take o@ﬀ nd duties upon  but considering the ten- c @@@which @has for some time ma- nifested itself in the home mar@@ket, a very small diminu- tio@n of the duty upon the raw material might be expected to produce consi@derable e@ﬀect in giving an increased stea- diness to t@he manufacture a@nd if the  that t@he owner of house would come out in due form but @ﬁnding nobody in atten- dance, ha walked in, placed himself in the  he used to stand during t@he operation of  and on the smith's coming in, he instantly  his errand, by holding up t@he shoelesss after, t@he owner of @the horse having missed him,  smithy in the course of his  his @no small surprise  smith  on a s@hoe I -Dumfries Courier.r in his 25tht strong circumstances. Talking.-There is one mortal o@ﬀence in women for which they have been, more than once, rated roundly by the satirists. All women, says one of  condescended to beco@@@m@e@@@ Patron, was held here on the 2d inst. After entering @@30 young Members, and collecting Half-year's Dues, the Funds of the Society  su@ﬀered much from the easterly winds. Potatoes are a considerable b@readth, and the plant full as forward as could be ex- pected. Turnip sowing has been early this season, and the Swedes have been @some time above ground. All hope is relinquished of a good crop of fruit, except, perhaps, of later fruits. Cattle and sheep, fat or lean, abundant, and at very moderate prices with an ap- pearance of a still farther reduction in price of all the necessaries of life. @wn of Garmouth, bounded by Mr @@Steinson's@ Property at the North, James Carmichael's@ at the East, and a Lane at the West. For further particulars, application may be made to Mr Robert Bain, Writer, Elgin, who will give directions for pointing out the Lots, and furnish all necessary in- formation as to Rents, the Holdings of the Possessors, and the Public and Parochial Burdens a@ﬀecting the Lands or to John M'Andrew, Solicitor in Inverness, who will shew the Deeds in virtue of which t@he Property is o@ﬀered for Sale. NE@W STAMP OFFICE.  of the country allowed it gradually to be taken o@@ﬀ, a small duty only being left upon t@he Organ@zine, our manufac- ture would have nothing to dread from the competition of French silks, even if permitted to be introduced upon a duty of from 12 to 15 per cent. and a considerable aug- mentation upon the export might at the same time be rea- sonably expected. @If it was found impracticable to make any @speedy re- duction in the duty on raw silk, without the substitution @@of another, it m@ight deserve consideration whether it @m  not, with safety to the revenue, be transferred to @@the manufactured article, by which all the inconvenience arising fro@m advànce of capital and the necessity of draw- backs might be avoided.  ters of this goodly creation would not be very well  to allow the last of these senses to be the exclusive  which was kept up with mirth and  you hear a woman uttering lively nonsense and the latter commodity is in@ﬁnitely more estimable in our opinion. There are very few men that know how to converse. You see many a man like Addison, who can draw on his banker for @£1,000, but who has not nine-pence in ready cash, to contribute as his share in conversation. Women, on the contrary, are  the missionary, whose for- mer travels into South Africa are before the public, has  after another journey equally interesting. He @p miles from Cape Town, a greater  o@ther traveller w@hose good fortune it has @been , and considerably beyond Latakoo. @He has discovered several new and large towns. The popul@ation of some of those amount to 10,000 or  the people friendly and docile, pos- sessing much skill in the manufacture of pottery, in @smelting of iron, and other useful arts besides so in- telligent as to know the value of, and @wish for, the in- troduction of better informed artizay. T@hey have likewise desired  to   Lushington, of the treasury,@ in repi to a letter from C. @M. Burrell, Esq. M.P. @has   be prevented from   which men, in their wisdom, esteem beneath their powers.-T@he French ladies are pre-eminent in this art and af- ter them the Irish ladies hold the most distinguished place. It is absolutely marvellous to li@sten to two sisters, who have been parted for three week@@, edify- ing each other with their mutual stores of intelligence, of which their b@rothers would have disburdened them- selves in one-tenth of the time.@-@New Monthly Maga- zine. GOLD COIN.-@@ King James the 1st coined his 22 shilling piece of gold, called Jacobusses, where, on his head, he wore a Crown after that, @he coined his twenty s@hillin@gs, and were the laurel instead of the Crown upon @@which mutation, Ben Johnson said  last twelve months nearly 10 young Members have joined this excellent Society.  This was an action against a pawnbroker to recover the value of a pair of sheets pawned with M'Lachla@n, the suspender. After the expiry of a year. Young, t@he charger, sent to redeem the pledge, when the pawnbrok- er said, t@@he time being expired, the goods were now for- feited,  could not be given. Young, how- ever, notwithstan@ding of this, raised an action against the paw@nbroker before the @magistrates of Glasgow, for the amount of the a@rticle to w@@hich she appeared, and found- ed in suppo@rt of he@r right so to act, upon the statute, @38th  @99. The @magistrates, however,@@ Found that @@there is nothing in the statute referred to, to supersede the right which the pursuer has at common law @@in insist for an account of the proceeds of the sale of the goods referred to or an account of the manner in which the said goods @have been disposed of. This judg- ment was brought he review of the Court of Ses- sio@n, by bill or suspension, which was passed by Lord ry o@@ﬃciating on the bills a@nd af- ter@wards@@ 2@6th  @1821 , the letters were simpliciter suspended---thus @ﬁnding, that the time for redee@ming t@he pledge, viz. twelve months, having expired before appli- cation@ was made, the right of property in the article pledg- ed became vested in the  James no soo@ner began to wear then, but  in the pound in publique on.  menta  @1662.@@ The dr@ess of each gentleman pensioner at the cone@- nation, is, we are told, to contain one thousand two hundred sugar-loaf buttons. If each of these is to have its respective button hole, the gen@ men had better co@m@@mence dressing  they be too  warrant of dispensation is passing, to enable the several Knights Grand Crosses of t@he Bath, nominat- ed since the last installation, 1st June, 1812, to wear the collar, mantle, c. of the Order, as though @ac- tually a@nd formally installed. Govern@ment will provide for each Knight Grand Cross, a superb crimson satin mantle, lined with white ta@ﬀeta, and the star embroidered on the left shoulder@@@ a black velvet hat, a sword and belt, @and a  of gilt spurs. In like manner, there will be provided for the Knights Commanders w@@ho may attend the solemnity, a short crimson satin mantle, with the star of the se- cond class of the order embroidered thereon, a@nd fas- tened by a gold cordon sword and belt, black velvet hat, and a pair of gilt spurs. @@The @ar@@ers  M@ajesty already appointed, are, t@he Marquis of   t@he Duke of Wel- lington Earl of @Rawdon, son of the Marquis of@@@ Hastings Earl of Break@neck, son of @the  ofuis of   @Earl of Tal- bot  of C@hol- mo@ndeley and Viscount  Mar- quis of Salisbury. Mr Dy@mocke, in the hope  ho- nour of personating the character of his Majesty's Champion on the day of b so@@me time taking lessons at  riding schoo PROMOTIONS@ rank of Post Captain.-Captain George Cornish Ga@@mbier. To the rank of Commander.-The Right @Hon. the Earl of Huntingdon, the Right Hon. Lord Henry Thynne, and Lieutenants Robert Andoe, Price Black- wood, and David Peat. To @the rank of Lieutenant.-Messrs. Adolphus Fit@@zclarence, Thomas Evans, @@Thomas James, Parker @D. Bingham, Edward Shacklock, John Jones, @Chas. J. F. Newton, Edward Digby, Willoughby Lake, Stewart N. Inglis, Hon. Richard Saunders Dundas, and Thomas A. Lewis. To the rank of Surgeon.-Mr. Hugh Ferguson. Vice-Admiral Sir Benjamin Hallowell, Knight Com@@mander of the Order of the Bath, to be  Chief at She@@erness, vice Rear-Admiral Sir John G@ore,@riod of service @has expired. Capt@ains Henry Prescott, to the Aurora Sir Mur- ray Maxwell, to the Bulwark Price Blackwood, to the Curlew G. C. Gambier, to the Dauntless Wil- liam Style, to he G@an@net F. L. Maitland, to the Genoa W. R. Dawkins, to the Helicon James Lilli@erap, to the @Hyperion@ Alexander Skene, to the Impregnable C. C. Askew, to the @Martin J. B. Cl@oes,  Rose s Dashwood, to  with the new Stamp O@@ﬃc@e and the Regent's Bridge, we could wish that Mr. Hume had been more faithfully informed-we could wish that he had known Edinburgh as it was, and as it is, and we are sure that, instead of endeavouring to throw any obloquy on Sir John Marjoribanks for any connection he had with t@he Regent's Bridge, he would join with us in t@he opinion we have frequently taken occasion to express, that we are deeply indebted to t@he spirited exertions of that@ gentlemen, without which, in all probability, Edinburgh would never have undergone the splendid improvement it has experienced by t@he access to t@he Calton@@ Hill being thro@wn open to our most public street, and brought as it were into the centre of our city. We remember when this improvement was talk- ed of, and looked upon as perfectly chimerical. The di@@ﬃculty and the expence seemed to interpose such insurmountable barriers, that the idea was banished almost without re@ﬂection, and it was only in conse- quen@ce of a proposal having been made to build a JAIL in front of Prince's Street, that some individuals were induced to try the levels, and speculate on the possibi- lity of connecting Prince's Street with the Calton Hill, where abundance of room would be found for prisons, or any thing else that the extension of Edinburgh now rendered indispensable. Sir John was then our Chief Magistrate, he saw the advantages of the plan, and immediately adopted the view@s of those that re- commended it and we believe, with a facility incre- dible even to himself-so warmly was @he seconded by those who were interested, that the necessary arrange- ments were made in a very short space of time-a splen- did entrance was added to our own romantic city, a@nd a street created not inferior in splendour to any in the empire. It was on the ground which came to be sold in this street that the Co@@mmissioners depended for a conside- rable share of the expence, and this ground was expos- ed to public auction. The stances on one side went o@ﬀ pretty freely, but those on the other hung for some time in the market, when Sir John@, anxious that these stances should present no stop to the proceedings, took the whole upon himself, and at t@@he time, we are convinced without contemplating any connection what- ever with the Stamp o@ﬃce. -Edinburgh Paper.  in Marlborough Square, Brompton, Mrs. MACKENZIE, Lady of Tho- mas Mackenzie, Esq. of a son. At Paris, the Lady of Earl POULETT, of a son. At Paris. on the 22d ult. Lady BUCHAN, of a son. At Portsmouth, on t@he 2d curt. the Right Hon. Lady GREENOCK, of a daughter. At Putney, on the 27th ult. the Lady of  Captain of the@ @Hon. East India Com- pany's ship Repulse, of a son. s. At Walsale, on the 14th ult. J. S. BROWN, Esq. merchant, Edinburgh, to MARIA, youngest daughter of the late John Badger, Esq. Laymore House, Staf- fordshire. On the 3d curt. by the Rev. Archibald Alison,  Esq. advocate, to Miss  third daughter of Mr Ja@mes Dun- das of Ochtertyre, clerk to the signet. At Dacca, Bengal, on the 27th February JAMES  t@he 11th native infantry, to  eldest daughter of Richard Owen Wynne, Chief Judge at Dacca. At Weymouth, on the 28th ult.  Esq. of Islington, London, to SARAH, fourth daugh- ter of William Oakley, Esq. late Mayor of that bo- rough. @Deaths. At Edinburgh, on t@he 15th ult. ELIZABETH, eldest daughter of George Sandila@n@ds, Esq. At Edinburgh, on the 29th ult. Mr A@LEX. DAL- MA@HOY, St. Andrew's Street. At Florence, on the 3d ult.  Esq. On the 13th ult. Dr HAGUE, Professor of Music in the University of Cambridge. At Gosport, on the 19th ult. in the 38th year of his age, Major W. BENNETT, Royal Engineers. At his seat, Pinner-grove, Middlesex, Sir F. MIL- MAN, Bart. M. D. F. @R. S. in the 75th year of his age. @@FROM A JAMAICA NEWSPAPER. Vir@tus post funera vivit. Died in Trelaw@ney Parish, Jamaica, on Thursday the 2d March,  the 80th year of his age, after a residence of @ﬁfty-six years in the island. His funeral was respectably and @numerously at- tended, and all evinced a senti@@ment of sincere regret a@nd due homage to his departed worth. The writer of this short accou@nt had great opportunities of knowing him well and intimately, a@nd though he w@ishes to pay a just tribute to his various merits, he is perfectly unswayed by the partiality of friendship for, alas ! of what service to the departed can an eulogium in a@ newspaper be ? A character, however, so respectable for public and private virtues, adorned by the h@@appy nati great natural @endowm@ents, with a culiated mind, and the clas-  stores of ancient learning, cannot, and perhaps ought not to pass without some observation. No person could have adopted with more propriety suaviter in modo, fortiter in re, as a motto for his character. His whole life was an illustration of the former and his memorable letters to General Nugent, displaying  tion, with a just a@nd honourable resentment, evince the latter. He was born in Old @Meldrum, a village in the north of Scotland, of respecta@ble parents. He took his acade- mical degree in the University of New Aberdeen, where he also @ﬁrst studied Medicine, and afterwards at Edin- burgh. He seems to have been @ﬁtted by nature for the study of his profession, for @he possessed great sagacity, uncommon sweetness of temper, wonderful strength and accuracy of recollection, and a natural activity  Court having met, Daniel Aitchison was placed at the bar, accused of being concerned art and part in the theftuously abstracting from the person of Dr. Robert Burt a gold watch, with gold chain and appendages, at the head of Bank Street, in Edinburgh, on the 20th of November last the prisoner was also charged with being habit a@nd repute a thief. The in- dietment having beer read, t@he prisoner pleaded Not Guilty. The Jury returned a written verdict, @ﬁnding the prisoner, by a plurality of voices, Guilty art and part of the crime libelled. The Lord Advocate restricted the libel, and the prisoner was sentenced to transpor- tation for fourteen years. Michael M'Callum was placed at t@he bar, charged with abstracting a bundle, containing wearing apparel, a receipt of the Commercial Bank for £1200, and a @@variety of ot@hertic@l the  It is exceedingly probable, that had his destination prosecute the science of Medicine in Britain, he would @have arrived at great eminence as there he would have @had more o@pportunities of leisure, and in@tercourse with lit@erary men, with more abstraction from other pursuits of life but even as it was, he has written very respecta- bly and usefully on several subjects of t@he healing art. A gradual decay of nature a@ﬀor@ded him the fullest indication of his approaching dissolution, and  placid and resigned. The illne@ss which carried oﬀ this valuable member of society at last, was @short in its duration a@nd alluding to that circumstance, h@e might have exclaimed with Garth,-@ ' To dis, is landing on a silent shore@ neither break nor tempests roar@- ' Ere we can feel the friendly stroke. 'tis o'er.' In @ﬁne, his life, though not interwoven with many inci- dents of a remarkable nature, was a life of virtue and his public spirit, hospitality, urbanity, a@nd t@he various excellencies of @his enlig@htened mind, will be long  He died, too, in the per@fect exercise of his senses, and possessed of the esteern and regard of his surv Creditors of   of lonar and Dabbreck, meet in John Cameron's, writer in Dingwall, 10th July. A@ and baker in Abor- @deen, has applied for a di
365@@ 365 SH@AVES SHAVES@ SHAVES@@ A VINOLLA FOR@@@ SHAVING 6D.  to last a Year.  the Saturday issue of the EVENING POST. CADBURY'S@ COCOA, The typical Cocoa of English Manufacture, Absolutely Pure. The Analyst. NO CHEMICALS USED As in many of h so-called pure @Foreign Cocoas .as @@. VOL. CXXXII. No, 8564 EXETER SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1894.  A DVERTIS@EMENTS. S ITUATION W ANTED. For the following Classes -SE@R@VAN@T@S, A@PA@RT@M@E@NT@S TO LET, FOR SALE, c., Are inserted in the  the undermentioned  POST, SIX DAYS. ☞ Replies to Advertisements, if addressed  O@ﬀice, must be delivered 29. North-street, Exeter. SITUATIONS WANTED. 20 Words or Less, 6d. A RE you  of a situation@? The best way to get one is to advertise in the@@@  1863.-Rud@s  Servants, Male and Female.  stats requirements, and enclose amp for  Great care taken in theion of suitable servants.-Address  97. South-street. Exeter. B UTC@HERS.-@Lad requires Situation slight experience, age 16, use to horse@.@ Salisbury, Wilts. B AILIFF working seeks situation, experi- ence of farm work and management  dairy, and poultry if required references.@-Baili@ﬀ, Hazelbury House,  Bristol. G OOD Penman and Bookkeeper wishes  employment terms moderate d references.-Apply C., of this paper. Y OUNG Woman, age 23, wishes Situation as Plain Cook or Cook General wages £12  £14.-Apply A. W.. care of Mrs. Burston,street, Teignmouth. Stamps for reply. H OUSE Parlourmaid or Housemaid will be glad of situation, age 23. Enclose stamp. SITUATIONS VACANT. 20 Words or Less, 6d. A RE you Seeking an Engagement@? The best way to get oneone to advertise in the Evening Post. R UDD'S Male and Female Servants Registry, 97, South-street, Exeter. Estab- lished 1863. If you want a situation send all particulars, and enclose stamp for reply to the above ad@dress. Thoroughly reliable. @@W ANTED Immediately @Jobbing Compositor. @@-@Apply Axworthy, New - street, Paignton. @@W ANTED at once a good active General Servant, 25 to 30, understands Plain Cooking.-Horse and Groom,  Strand, Dawlish.  single-  Agency, Newton Abbot. @@U SEFUL Lad f@rom country. Age 16 with 2½ years' good reference from last place, @anxious to meet with a situarion. Can take barge of horse and carriage, willing to make  useful. Registered No.  stamped ditected envelope , Ruds Registry, Exeter. Y OUNG Woman, age 20, wishes Situation as @@Housemaid or Kitchenmaid in gentleman's family Exeter preferred last place in two years left for no fault. Stamp for reply.., care of Mrs. Burston,  age 25, twelve months character, @@@@@will be glad of situation. Enclose stamp. -Age@ncy, 16, Stra@@nd, Dawlish. W AITING engagements -@Parlourmaids, @@@@salaries £18 to £24 all good characters. -@@Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Stamp for  desired as Parlourmaid, agd 25. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Daw- ish. W ANTED Situation as Butlers, Footmen, Grooms. Groom-gardners, Coachmen.-stamp. Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. S @ITUATION desired as House-parlourmaid or @@Housemaid, wages £18 to £20, age 29.  16, Strand, @Dawli@sh. R ESPECTABLE Widow, age 35, wishesshes Situation as Plain Cook in gentleman's alifamily. St@amp for reply.-Apply Mrs. G., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. W ANTED Servants to know that they can hear of good vacancies in every capacity Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Home for  with the@ ANTED situation as Gardener or Groom-@ Gardener no objection to cows useful and willing, married, age 29.-J Bowden,  wanted a@s Slau@ghter-man, to assist in shop and make himself  @@good references Dartmouth. U@ @NDER-HOUSEMAID, age 17, will be glad of situation. Enclose stamp.-Agency,  Strand, Dawlish. ESPECTABLE Young Man desires Situa- tion as Porter in house of Business. Four  -@@J. Glover, care of Mrs.  Princes-street, Dorchester. A S Plain Cook and House - Parlourmaid together, ex@ellent characters wages £18  Agency, Newton Abbot G OOD Plain Cook wishes situation in Teign- mouth well recommended, now  24 wages £20. Stamp for  of Mrs. Burston,  no book buying, no canvassing. Instructions 4d. Specimen copy with instruc- tions 10d. Liberal payment.- F.J.M.,@@ 1, The Bridge, Witney, Oxon. G ENERAL Wanted for high-class Lodging- house at Dawlish another servant kept. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. W ANTED Housemaid, good needlewoman,man, parlourmaid kept, two in family. Stamp. @-@Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. S ERVANTS of all classes wanted for Gentle- man's, Family's, Private, and Business Houses.-Apply Mrs. Burston, Teignmouth. C @OOK.-Wanted, good Plain Cook. Parlour-@ maid and housemaid kept.-Apply by letter to Mrs. S@tabb, Croft Lodge, Torquay. @G OOD General wanted for business house at@@ Dawlish. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, St@rand, Dawlish.  Couple, no family, would adopt  Grove Cottage. Grove-road, Fishponds, Bristol. N URSE or adoption any age good home.ome. -For particulars, address A. G., 3b, Arch- way-road, Upper Holloway, N. Y OUNG Housemaid for a family near Exeter,@@ £6 Housemaid, where parlourmaid is kept, Exeter. Housemaid, about 18 Exeter. Housemaid, about 19, willing to assist other servants for a school in Exeter.-Apply enclose- ing stamped directed envelope , Ru@ds Registry, Exeter. @W ANTED experienced and Plain Cooks, @@@@salaries £18 to £25 vacancies in all parts. Callor write.-Harris's Servants' Agency, Newton Abbot. R ESPECTAR@LE Girl age 17 to 18, healthy, wante@d in private family 3 in Teign- mouth as General Servant, must be willing to do a little washing, part put out, no boots, knives, or window@, @c. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. H., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teign- mouth. A AGENTS wanted to sell our celebrated @@Packet Teas, French Co@ﬀee in Tins, and@@ Cocoa. Particulars free. Oliver, Oliver @@Co., 4@6. Southgate-road, London. W ANTED Hotel Housemaid, also Kitchen-@@@ maid from private houses preferred.-Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. L ADY and Working - Housekeepers,@@ Govern@esses, Ladies' Maids, Experienced and Plain Cooks, Housemaid@, Parlourmaids, Generals, Butlers, Footmen, Pages, and every description of male and female servant@ excel-  Mrs. Dickinson, Head Register Oﬀice, Market-narade. Gloucester. S EVERAL Vacancies for good General Ser- vants. Wages £12 to £16. Also 3 Girls, of 16 years of age, willing to be trained, wanted for small families in Exeter.-Apply enclosing stamped directed envelope Ru@ds Regi@stry, Exeter. @@Y OUNG Man Wanted £26 per quarter @@@paid weekly splendid opening specimens free.-Address Compo Works, Farnworth Bolton, Lancashire. G OOD Cook wanted immediately for gentle-@ man's family near Southampton, three other servants kept, wages £18. Stamp for reply. -Apply Mrs. A., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore- street, Teignmouth. A @ Tailors, Drapers, and others, wanted to represent the well-known Advertising Firm of Tailors, Woolf Bros., particulars on application.-Address agency, Woolf Bros., 37, Barbican, London, E.C. H ARRIS'S Highly-patronised Agency for Governess's, Helps, male and female, Domestics, 72, Queen-street, Newton, Abbot. Best medium for ladies and servants. Stamp for reply. L ADIES may always obtain good servants @@and servants good situations by applying at the Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. W ANTED Good Plain Cook for doctors's family in Ilfracombe three in family.-Apply Mrs. Payne, Capestone Lodge, Ilfracombe. W ANTED immediately for gentlemans small family in Barnstaple House- parlourmaid, age 20 to 25. Wages £12 to £15, all found.  character, age 20, wishes for situation in London or large town. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, ANTED Situation as Experienced Cook where Kitche@maid kept. Wages £30, hest references.-Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Stamp for reply. S EVERAL Grooms, Coachmen, Butlers, Gardeners with good testimonials  particulars, apply enclosed stamped directed envelope to Ru@ds  three years' character, wishes for Situation London or  stamp.-Agency, 16,  Lady, age 19, wishes engagement as useful Companion or Governess salary as much consequence as comfortable home. Stamp for reply.-Apply Miss L., eare of Mrs. Brston, Fore street, Teignmouth. W AITING engagements.-Nurses, La@dies and Sewing Maids, Mothers  -@Harris's A@gency,  Plain Cook, middle aged, wishes for Situation Dawiish or neighbourhood preferred. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16,  s@ituation as single-handed Housemaid, or  Mayeli@ﬀe, Tor-on Books disengaged. Registered Nos. 369, 376, 381. Also a Man  333. All with excellent  stamped directed  Good character required. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. R., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. @W ANTED Nurse-housemaid for Paignton@@@@. Also House@-@parlourmaid, Generals. Stamp.-Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. G OOD Cook wanted for high class hotel at @@Paignton Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. @W ANTED two superior Servants as Plain@@@@ Cook ans House-parlourmaid for one lady Torquay salaries £20 each.-Apply Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. B ETWEEN-MAID wanted immediately for gentlemans family in Dawlish, must be fairly strong and of n@eat appearance. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. D., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. @W ANT@ED good Plain Cook. Also House-@ @@parlourmaid small family.-72, Queen- street, Newton Abbot. G ENERAL Wanted for family house near @@@Dawlish, Enclose Stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. @G OOD Plain Cook for a lady and gentleman @@in the country, wages £18 very com- fortable situation. Also a Cook for small family in Exeter, wages £18. Also Cook for a school.-Apply enclosing stamped envelope . Ru@ds Registry, Exeter. @@W ANTED immediately for gentleman @@@@family 2 in Teignmouth, good General Servant who can cook, must be well recommended, age 22 to 25, wages £14 to £15. Dine early. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. C., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. H OUSE-PARLOURMAID Wanted for two ladies at Newton. Enclose Stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand@ Dawlish. W ANTED Hair Brush Finishers.-Apply Keetch and Co., Ottery St. Mary. W HO@LESALE Provision Trade.-Managerager wanted for Birmingham depot, must be good salesman and prepared to invest £800 to £1,000.-Apply to J. W. Wall, solicitor. Exchange-street, East Liverpool. E RIC LEMMON, Chemist, 47,  with good situation@ by applying to Miss Grimwade, 3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton@@@@@@. S MART Young-@@@@@@ W ANTED a Young Girl about 16 for house work.-Apply 122, Fore-street. W ANTED Boy to deliver milk and make himself generally useful.-Apply Brom- ham's, Haven Banks. W ANNTED strong respectable Lad, must be active and willing for stable work, and make himself generally useful.-J. S. Dunning, Alphing@ton-street. W ANTED immediately for gentleman's small family good General, two other servants kept, age 25 to 35, wages £23. dine late. Stamp for reply.-Apply Mrs. B., care of Mrs. Burston, Fore-street, Teignmouth. ly charged. All communications strictly private and con@ﬁdential. £10 advanced, repayable by 12 monthly instalments of £1. Prospectuses free. Stamp for reply.-Apply T. Bowen, 9, Frankfor@t-street, Plymouth, agent to the Carlton Bank, Limited, of 38, Finsbury Pavement. London. Agent for Exeter wanted. @@ English, music, good needlewoman.-Apply Miss Rowe, 2, Bridge@-road, Princetown. W ANTED by Young Lady engagement as Nursery Governess. English, Music, French, good references, salary £18.-Apply 3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton. S ANITARY INSPECTORS. -@Gentlemen rapidly prepared for Exam. by successful coach correspondonce   engagenment resident Governess English, French, German, latin, drawing, music, and needlework. Several years experi- once. Salary £20.-3, Torbay-terrace, Paignton. BOARD APARTMENTS. S  J. R AE @@ and formerly at Meyer and Mortimer, Court Tailors, London . High-class Materials for Three Guinea Dress Suit. 16 -@Trousers to meet the depression in trade.  WOOD'S, 108 Fore-street opposite Fore-street Post O@ﬀice . F REE READING.-Unitarian Publications sent free on application to Miss H. Caddick, 7, Duchess-roa@d, Edgbaston.  holiday terms, very  Paignton.  Apartments.-Two Pdrooms and Sitting-room quiet neighb@ourho@od central.-4, New Buildings, Gandy-street. Terms moderate. C @OMFORTABLE Board and lodgings for one @@or two gentlemen.-Apply 4, Bystock- terrace. L ODGINGS to Let, suit single gentleman or @@elderly lady, very moderate terms.-Carrington, Avenue-road, Terquay.@@ @V ISITORS TO LONDON. -@ from arrival platformrm omfortable and convenient moderate tari@ﬀ.@@ Address Waterloo Hotel, York- road, Waterloo, London, S.E. belegrams to Tu@ﬀins' Hotel, London. Portar to await arrival of visitors at station by  12 hands, not to exceed 4cwt., state price.-W. K. R., 14, Fleet-street, Torquay. H OME.-Plain @writing copying recipes good remuneration sample recipes, 7d.@ Stamps returnable if not appointed, and stamped envelope.-Guest's Novelty Cor., 38, Wernpit- road, Landore, S. Wales.  at the O@ﬀice of this p@aper for all the London, Continental, and Provincial Newspapers. The most economical and speedy way of transmitting advertisements. A STROLOGY.-Marri@ge success. Future described, life like description of your elf. Birthtime. Sex. Fourteen stamps.-Professor Blakemore, 118, Hampton-street, Birmingham. V ESICO SUDORIFIC is the ﬁnest and most humane Blister for Horses in the world. No blemish@! No @ﬁxing the head@! No rest needed! For splint, Savin, Ringbone, Sidebone, Capped Hock and Elbow, Curb. Windgall, Tumours, and for strengthening the Legs of Horses. @@e 2s 6d and 5s, of all chemists, or post free of the proprietor, Gregory, Veterinarian, Bristol O NE BOX OF CLARKE'S B 41 PILLS is warranted to cure all discharges from the Urinary Organs, in either sex acquired or con- stitutional , Gravel, and Pains in the Back. Guaranteed free from Mercury. Sold in Boxes, 4s. @6d. each, by all Chemists and Patent Medicine Vendors throughout the World or sent to any address for sixty stamps by the Makers, The Lincoln and Midland Counties Drug Com- pany, Lincoln. CHEAPEST H@OUSE IN THE CITY FOR PROVISIONS. LENDON BROS., 90 FORE-STREET EXETER.  J. LANCASTER'S PRIVATE SECRETARY COM@PAN@Y. Preceded by a Comedietta, entitled A LOVE GAME. Doors open 7. Commence 7.30. Second price at 9. Box O@ﬀice open 11 to 4.  W ITH an account of the Ecclesiastical. Municipal, and Commercial History of the City by Eminent Writers. PRICE 1s. POLLARD AND CO., 39 and 40. North-street. Exeter.  AND CROME. A SERIES OF SKETCHES NOW ON VIEW AT SCOTT @@SONS' ART GALLERY, 11, HIGH-STREET, EXETER ADMISSIONe AND PROPERTIES. 20 Words or Less, 6d. A RE you House-Hunting@? The best way to @ﬁnd what you want it to advertise in the Evening  Small House or House and Shop,hop, in good neighbourhood.-Particulars to Alpha, Evening Post. L Y@DFORD.-Furnished Cottage to let foror winter months, rent very moderate.- F, care of Mr. Bickle, Lydford,  to the Owners, and under the control of the Railway Companies. Apply at the RAILWAY OFFICES, 97 Q UEEN @, E XETER. tmmodicus Dry Warehouse fo Storing Furniture. G LASS I NSURANCE. 782 REPLACEMENTS  SINCE 1876 BY THE LONDON AND@@ COUNTY OFFICE. AGENT JOHN ALGAR, MUSEUM HOUSE, EXE@TER  on Moderate terms of Repayments. W. S. MORTIMER, Secretary, @M. Bedford-circus. Exeter. INDIA RUB@BER HOT WATER BOTTLES FROM 3@S  CASH W. PACKHAM AND SON, 19, QUEEN-STREET, EXETER. ILLUSTRATED CASH PRICE LIST FREE NORWICH UNION FIRE OFFICE. ESTANLISHED 1797. HEAD OFFICE NORWICH. SUBSCRIBED  SUM INSURED ending 1893  TOTAL ASSETS, 31st Dec., 1893 £1,109,000 BRANCH OFFICE OPPOSITE THE GUILDHALL, J@ TEMPLE@TON, EXETER@,  ELEVENTH ANNUAL EXHIBITION will be held in the LOW@ER MARKET. @EXETE@R, On FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14th Next. Prizes amounting to about £300 ENTRIES CLOSE SATU@DAY, December 1st Schedules may be had on application to W. H. KELL@AND, Hon. Sec., Queen-street,  tobacconist or as o@ﬀices.-Apply to James Knill and Co., 20, Bedford- circus, Exeter. C OTTAGE Wanted.-Wanted by a respectable married man a Small Cottage, about 3s 6d per week frontage town.- J. B., 9, Gundry- lane,  ART of an Unturnished House to Let in higher part of city.-Address  Post, 29, North-street. S OUTH Devon Furnished House to Let  ready for planting Fruit Trees, Grape Vines, Raspberry Canes, Currant and Goose- berry Bushes, also Shrubs, Climbers, @c. Grounds laid cut, planted, and general gardening attended to on moderate terms. Catalogues free. CHARLES WALTERS, POLSLOE-ROAD  Cottage @ﬁve rooms near sea and c@hurch terms very moderate.-Address White, 50, Orchard-terrace, Seaton. P ORTHTOWAN, North Coast of Cornwall.-Air unrivalled, Furnished House.-Apply to W. Treweek, Bank, Redruth. SALES. 20 Words or Less, 6d. A RE you trying to Let or Sell your House@? @@@The best way to dispose of it is by adver- tising in the Evening Post.  98@ SOUTH STREET, EXETER ART WALL PAPERS COST NO MORE THAN ORDINARY PATTERNS. Patterns Free. Lowest Prices. R OBERT VEITCH and SON, The Royal@@ Nurseries, Exeter, invite inspection of their stock of Fruit Trees, Roses, Choice, Ornamental, and Flowering Shrubs, @c. Cata- logues post free on application. ECIPE of valuable ointment for Sale@@ cheap.-Apply H. Jones, 10, Upper North- street, Brighton. R ROSES. ROSES. ROSES.-For exhibition and other purposes, teas and hybrid, 12 strong dwarfs 7s for cash.-D. Davies, Lugwar- dine, Hereford. B EAUTIFUL Serge Dress Materials, Black and Blue, 1s 4d @and 1s 9d yard, @ﬁfty-four inches carriage paid.-Bradford Woollen Co., Swan Arcade, Bradford. @@F OR Sale, good Pony @and Trap.-Apply 9, Beaufort-road, St. Th@emas. T O BAKERS.-For Sale. Handcart, splendid condition no further use price £5 or o@ﬀers.-Tom Hunt, Sidwell-street, Exeter. W HOLESALE Provision Business for dis- posal in Midland Counties, turnover £500 weekly, at good pro@ﬁts working expenses very moderate capital required £1,500to £2,000.-Apply to Mr. J. @W. Wall, solicitor, Exchange- street@ Liverpool. B ARGAIN seldom met  never @@used taken for debt no use to owner weight 30lbs listed £23 10s wonderful chance sent on approval with pleasure cash £6 12s 6d.-5, Regent-street, Weston-super-mare.  and House-Parl@ Registered No.  377, 380. All with good   direct@ed  situation as Nurse,  baby f@r@om mo@nth highest references, now amp.-Harris, Agency, Newton  sist@er as  together  both good characters.  No premium if outdoor. G EN@ERAL Wanted for private family at Dawlish. Wages £10 to £12. Enclose stamp.-Agency 16, Str@and@, Dawlish.@@ W ANTED General Servants, numbers of @@@@vacancies in all parts, town and country. -Call or write, Harris's Agency, Newton Abbot. Stamp for reply. G OOD General wanted for high-class lodging-@ house at Dawlish. Enclose stamp.-Agency, 16, Strand, Dawlish. @@W ANTED for Wimbledon good General@@@@ Servant, where another kept, must be good plain cook. Good wages. Arrangements made about fare up.-Harris's Servants' Agency, Newton ted with any yeast when bread is one of the staple articles of food. Your bread should be sweet and nourich- ing, and to secure this the @ﬁnest yeast must be used. Buy a known and tested brand. Ask for D.C.L. Most@ grocers sell it, but if you cannot get it, write to The Distillers Co., Ltd., Edinburgh, the sole manufacture@s, who will give you the address of the nearest agent. More agents wanted. Sample sent for four stamps.@@ F OR Sale, new and second-hand Broughams, Landaus, Landaulettes, Hansoms, Vic- torias, four-wheel and two-wheel Dogearts, Governess Cars and Waggonettes also good second-hand Break, with head, to carry 13.-Apply Phillips Bros., Coachbuilders, 46, Paris- street, Exeter. C @IDER@! Cider@!! Cider!!!-Any who have@@ Cider Sour or Reamed should try Bright's Cider Restorer. One packet su@ﬀicient for one hogshead. By post for 1s 4½d, or two packets for 2s @6d. Try it.-Apply T. Hawkes, Iron- monger, Taunton.@@@@ @G AS ENGINES Cro@sslay's , all sizes, Second @@Hand. Thoroughly overhauled at works. Estimates for supplying and @ﬁxing. Immediate attentical given to breakdowns, and repairs by practical men of twenly years' experience. Engines scienti@ﬁcally tested and adjusted for their maximum power with he smallest consump- tion of gas. Slides refaced all parts kept in stock.-@@H. O. Strong@ Engineers, St. Paus.  THE MOST APPROVED @GAS FORES, c. ON VIEW AT 248 HIGH-STREET, EXETER. FAULKNER'S WEST OF ENGLAND CEMETERY WORKS, MARDALEN BRIDGE, EXETER. MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES, CHIMNEY PIECES, c., c., n STOCK to select from. EXETER, DISTRICT MANAGER FOR DEVON, CORNWALL, AND DORSET, To whom applications for agencies should be made ESTABLISHED 1845. W. R. LISLE, 179, FORE-STREET, EXETER, WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER JEWELLER@ AND SILVERSMITH. SPECIALITIES -Genuine Silver English Levers £2 2s 0d. Heavier and Superior ditto £3 0s 0d. Real Silver Watch@@ at 20s, and Gold from 42s Waterbury Watches 10s 6d, 17s 6d. Large Stock of Clocks from 2s 6d. All Warranted. ALL REPAIRS ON THE PREMISES. ROSES! ROSES!! ROSES!!! 12 ACRES OF ROSES. 100,000 Magni@ﬁcent PLANTS to select from. The best and cheapest in the world plant now. Catalogues free on application. Large Stock of Fruit Trees, Shrubs, c. JAMES WALTERS. MOUNT RADFORD NURSERIES, EXETER  c., for Balls, Concerts, Fancy Bazaars, Dramatic Performances, and other Entertainments, for Sale or Hire also Platforms, Tabling, Seating, @@c., for Tea Parties -Apply B. HEATH and SON, Builders, S@t Sidwels Avenue.  is sought  How to look wellll on a limited income has perplexed many a thrift@y housewife. 't is here@the Dyer and Cleaner canan help you. Y@our own and the gir@s dresses can be dyed for winter wear, your husban@@s and the boys' clothes cleaned and dyed and made wearable for many a long day. Then the household furnishings can be cleaned and dyed and so@@ freshened as to make the home look bright and @@comfortable. We can do all this for you at WINSER'S, EXETER DYE WORKS, 16, THE ARCADE. @@SUNDERLAND WALLSEND, CARLTON SILKSTONE, AND ALL BEST COALS AT LOWEST PRICES. WARD AND CO., 23,  the Museam Chief O@ﬀices ST.  W. V. COLE, ACCOUNT BOOK MANUFACTURER@,  S TATIONER, @c Books Ruled to any Pattern and Well Bound in any Style. 67 AND 88, SOUTH STREET, EXETER.  @10 EXETER. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS. By all Makers. Illustrated Lists Free. GAT ANNUAL SALE. Unprecedented Prices for Cash. On the Hire Purchase System. W@ITE FOR LISTS. The largest Assortment in West of England. @@Carriage Free. Tuned Free for One Year. Exchanged Free if not Approved.  RECEIVED THEIR NE@@W STOCK OF ANNUALS, DIARIES, ALMANACKS FOR 1895. NEW PRIZE BOOKS AND GIFT BOOKS FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. BIBLES, PRAYER BOOKS, BOUND POETS, C. @@☞ List of New Publications Post  Colonies. MR. AND MRS. MARTIN A RE giving the best Prices for all kinds of Ladies', Gentlemen's, and Children's Left- oﬀ Clothes, Boots, Linen, @c. Wardrobes purchased to any amount. Ladies and Geatle-men waited on by appointment in town or country. P.O. Orders remitted by return for country parcels. Parcels, Boxes, and letters addressed to MR. or MRS. MARTIN, 25, NORTH-STREET, EXETER, Receive immediate attention. SUN INSURANCE OFFICE. FIRE . FOUNDED 1710. Sum insured in 1892, £295,854,440, @@@@For all particulars apply to the following Agents, Exeter Mr. Jas Knill@@ Co., 20, Bedford Circus.  St. George Slight.  NEWCOMBE CO., 109, FORE-ST., EXETER. A RE Showing the largest and most varied Stock of Improved TILED GRATES from 16s to £10. CHIMNEY PIECES from 15s to £20. TILED HEARTHS from 7s. KITCHEN RANGES of every description. Prices from ONE to THIRTY GUINEAS. Illustrated Catalogues free by Post. Range and Hot Water work e@ﬀiciently carried out Exp@rienced Workmen sent to any  terrace on sea-front. Splendi Swimming Baths. Manager, H. S. GROVER. THE MATRIMONIAL HERALD and FASHIONABLE MARRIAGE GAZETTE. EAGLE RANGE AND GRATE DEPOT LIBERAL CASH and TRADE  Marriage Association @Ltd. Est.  @clergy.  for 1894. Marvellous increase in  patronised by the nobility.  fes@sional, and co@mmercial classes throughout the British  practically illi@mita@ble clientels daily angmented @by private recommendations from associates happily and advantageously married. Charge@ merely nominal. Strict secrecy. In envelope, 5d.-lid tor, 40, @Lt By J. A. BARNER, M. D. U.S , a Treatise entitled. HOW TO  valuable Book for Young Men. On the  and    disea@ses depending on Nervous Debility. Montal and Physical D@epression, Palpitation of the @Hours. Noises in the head  @, Impairod Sight an@d Memory, . Sent post free @@mps.   U.S. . 48,  
 The slaughter by the journeymen millers is e@ﬀected with long spears, after blinding their victim by throwing @ﬂour in his eyes. Another programme an- nounces the order of the national dances, the @ﬁrst of which will represent the dancers of the village of Aioz entering Pampeluna, according to ancient custom, accompanied by their dulcineas. Among the e@@ﬃgies is a bower, in which an allegory represents the two worlds doing homage at the feet of Spain! The Duke of Cadiz, eldest son of Don Francisco de Paula, is at Pampeluna, in command of a cavalry regiment, and apartments are preparing for the Infanta himself, who is ex- pected. The hotel of the Count de Gondolin is @ﬁtted up for the Spanish Royal family, and that of the Count de Espeleta for the French Princes. These two residences have been furnished very handsomely in the ancient style with rich tapestries, particularly the latter, which has a gallery of portraits of the Spanish monarchs from Philip V to the present time. Apartments were prepared for Munoz, Duke of Rianzares, in the house of Senor Cariguiri, banker, and deputy to the Cortes for this city, but it is very doubtful if he will come, as his equivocal position would create great awkwardness in his relations with the Duke and Duchess de Nemours and the Duke d'Aumale. The Dukedom of Nemours possesses historical reminis- cences for the Navarrese, Charles III, King of Navarre, surnamed the Noble who rebuilt the Cathedral now exist- ing , having, in 1403, obtained this title and a pension from the French Crown in compensation for the loss of his here- ditary domains in France. The arena for the bull‐fiights is a very substantial building, after the plan of the Roman amphitheatre, capable of containing upwards of ten thousand spectators. It was completed last year, being built on the site of an ancient monastery. The Court of Spain has made great e@ﬀorts to appear with a splendour suitable to the ancient grandeur of the nation splendid services of plate and other valuable objects have been brought from Madrid, new liveries have been made for the servants, the handsomest of the Royal carriages have already arrived, and the Queen's stud can boast of horses of extraordinary beauty. Among these are three Andalusian horses intended as presents for the Royal guests, the proportions of which are faultless. The Duke de San Carlos, to whom all these arrangements have been intrusted, has been indefatigable in his endeavours to complete them so as to do honour to the hospitality and taste of his Royal mistresses. On the morning of the 3rd inst. a review of a select por- tion of the garrison and troops collected for the approach- ing miliary evolutions, took place on the glacis outside the town. These troops, about @ﬁve thousand in number, were composed of one battalion from each of the infantry regi- ments, and a squadron from each of the cavalry. There were also on the ground six pieces of @ﬁeld artillery, each drawn by six mules, and the corresponding ammunition waggon by six others. The whole of these were in beauti- ful order but what excited great admiration were twelve mountain guns, of elegant workmanship-the guns on the back of one mule, the carriages on another, and the ammu- nition on a third. The whole of the troops were in very @ﬁne order, well clothed, and perfectly disciplined. The squadron of the Princesa Lancers was commanded by the Duke of Cadiz, and the whole review was under the orders of the Commandant‐General of Pampeluna. Narvaez, who arrived the evening before, was present, but in plain clothes. About four o'clock on the 3rd the city bells announced the approach of the Sovereign, the Royal train having been descried at a distance of @ﬁve miles. The living stream @poured out towards the French gate, where the Queen and Infanta arrived at @ﬁve o'clock, and were received by the municipality and other local dignitaries. A pretty throng of children, gaily dressed, and dancing to the sound of the national music, strewed lavender and other odoriferous plants before the Royal procession several huge @ﬁgures, in Moorish dresses, big enough to put Gog and Magog in their pockets, also marched in the Royal train the bands of the several regiments played the Royal march, while the shouts of the populace rent the air. Their Majesties alighted at the Palace of the Count de Gondolein. At eight o'clock at night the church bells struck up, and, in obedience to the signal, the inhabitants lit up their houses. The illumina- tion was very handsome and very general, and consisted of lamps, lanterns, or huge wax tapers. During the day most of the houses had been adorned with curtains, or tapestries of brilliant colours. About nine o'clock the Royal carriages were in attendance, and conveyed their Majesties and the Infanta to the Palace of the Count of Espeleta, to inspect the prepararions which had been made for the reception of their Royal relatives, the French princes. Both going and returning they were greeted with loud and hearty vivas by the people. The young Queen looked pale and fatigued with her journey, whilst her mother and sister seemed in the enjoyment of excellent health. General Harispe, com- manding the Bayonne division of the French army, accom- panied by Major de Bois‐e‐Comte and other o@@ﬃcers of his sta@ﬀ, arrived at Pampeluna in the morning, from Tolosa. On the 4th of September, about three o'clock, the church bells announced the approach of the French Princes, who made their entrance half an hour afterwards. They came in two of the Royal carriages, one drawn by six horses, the other by the same number of mules, the coachmen, foot- men, and outriders being attired in dark blue liveries, co- vered with rich gold lace. They were escorted by a troop of Cuirassiers and another of Lancers. Their Royal High- nesses were accompanied by the Countess d'Oraison, Lady of Honour to the Duchess de Nemours General Boyer, Aide‐de‐Camp to the Duke, and General Janin. They alighted at the Queen's Palace, and after paying their re- spects to their Majesties and the Infanta, proceeded to the Espeleta Palace, which had been prepared for them. The people received their Royal Highnesses in perfect silence, and the same marked their entrance into, and departure from, the Queen's residence, and their entrance into their own, whilst the Queen of Spain could hardly pass near the windows without being greeted with a buzz of applause, which was converted into a loud burst of enthusiasm when she, accompanied by her mother and sister, and the Dukes de Nemours and Aumale, appeared on the balcony of the P@alace. General Harispe and his sta@ﬀ were present at the Palace to compliment the Princes and Spanish Royal Family. The Queen and Infanta afterwards went to the Espeleta Palace, to visit their Royal cousins of France, and to invite them to dinner, on which occasion @ﬁfty persons partook of the Royal hospitality. The only Ministers pre- sent were General Narvaez and Martinez de la Rosa. After dinner the Royal party appeared on the balcony to witness a national dance which was performed in the small square in front of the Palace. A fountain in the square was very prettily illuminated, and bore an inscription from the city of Pampeluna to the Queen. POLITICAL. The Earl of Winchilsea has resigned the deputy‐lieu- tenancies of the counties of Northampton, Kent, and Lin- coln, and also the commission of the peace for the same counties. In his letters of resignation, which are copies of each other, the noble Lord says Regarding as I do the conduct of her Majesty's Ministers, in their late dismissal of Mr Watson, to be of a most arbitrary and unjust cha- racter, I cannot subject myself to a similar treatment in the course which I may deem it my duty to pursue in advocating those great Protestant principles which are, in my estimation, beyond all earthly value. -The Lord Chancellor has directed a supersedeas for the commission of the peace to be prepared according to the noble Lord's wish.  Parliamentary paper has been issued, containing copies of the correspondence on the subject of the colonial land fund of South Australia. There are @ﬁfteen letters and despatches in the correspond- ence. Several holders of special surveys in South Aus- tralia complained, in August, 1844, to Lord Stanley, as Colonial Secretary, that they had purchased land under the 4th and 5th of Will. IV, c. 95, on the faith that the whole of the purchase‐money would be applied to the giving a free passage to labouring emigrants, which pro- mise the Government had not ful@ﬁlled. The reply was to the e@ﬀect that South Australia having become insol- vent, the resources of that settlement did not supply any means of sending out emigrants in respect of the pre- vious purchases of land, and that no vote was taken of British funds for the purpose. The memorialists again urged their claims on Lord Stanley, remarking that, how- ever, as individuals, they regretted the insolvency of the colony, their money was paid under the guarantee of an act of Parliament and trusted that his Lordship would bring their claims before Parliament. Lord Stanley, by his secretary Mr Hope, M.P. , repudiated the construc- tion put on the act, and refused to make any application to Parliament. The holders again addressed his Lord- ship in January last, which called forth a reply without relief. In February another letter was sent by the hold- ers of special surveys, in which the following passage ap- pears - We beg to assure your Lordship we feel most honoured and forti@ﬁed in the justice of our claims by the consideration that at one time you regarded them favour- ably and we trust we may be excused expressing our ignorance of aught which may have occurred since to alter your views. Our patient endurance of delay, and our urging our claims at a period when the ful@ﬁlment of them would be most bene@ﬁcial to all parties, we trust give us an increased demand for a favourable consideration. His Lordship merely referred, in answer, to his former letter. It seems that during the time the correspondence was pending Governor Grey recommended an advance of 2,000l. for the purposes of emigration, in consequence of the purchase of waste land, and by the concluding docu- ment in the correspondence, bearing date the 7th of July last, Lord Stanley stated that, under all the circumstances, and adverting to the satisfactory progress of the land fund, the advance of the 2,000l. would be made for the purposes of emigration.  for the representation of this borough in Parliament, in the room of the late Mr B. Wood, took place on Wednesday. After the usual preliminaries, and the respective nominations by their friends of Sir William Molesworth, Mr Pilcher, and Mr Miall, the candidates severally addressed the electors. As the opinions of Sir William Molesworth, religious and political, have been grossly misrepresented by Mr Miall and his friends, we deem it only an act of justice to the hon. baronet to publish his eloquent and manly refu- tation. As soon as he could obtain a hearing Sir William Molesworth said - Of the three candidates who aspire to the honour of re- presenting you in Parliament, the lot has fallen upon me @ﬁrst to address you. I entreat a patient hearing whilst I endeavour, as brie@ﬂy as I can, to explain my political prin- ciples. If you approve of my principles, it will be your duty to elect me if you disapprove of them, it will be your duty to reject me. For nine years I sat and voted in the House of Commons as a Radical. To those principles I still ad- here, and intend to adhere. Cheers. Are you for or are you against Radical principles ? Cheers. I will put the question more distinctly. Are you in favour of free trade ? Are you opposed to all protecting duties ? Would you ex- tend your commerce-exchange your manufacture for the productions of every climate, so that your manufactures may @ﬂourish, and the labouring classes be prosperous and happy ? Do you desire a repeal of the corn laws ? Cheers. Do you wish for cheap food-for abundant food for our daily increasing population ? According as you answer these questions, yes or no, so should you vote for or against me. For I have always been a free‐trader. Cheers. I  a struggle of two years by Messrs Leyenot and Bond, the churchwardens of St George's in the East, and the most in@ﬂuential and respectable part of the pa- rishioners, the Rev. Bryan King, the rector of the parish, was, on Sunday last, compelled to announce publicly in the parish church that, in compliance with directions from his diocesan, the use of the surplice and the reading of the bidding prayer should be discontinued. Being sacra- ment Sunday, the o@ﬀertory sentences were read as a mat- ter of course, but the parishioners were resolved, having gained so much, to insist on the whole of the innovations being abandoned.  @'Rhenish Observer,' the only paper in the Protestant interest published in the Prussian dominions on the Rhine, informs us that Prince Albert has just sent 700 thalers, about 100l., towards the enlargement of the Protestant church at Bonn. It seems that the number of Protestants has so much increased in that town that last Good Friday there was not room enough in the church even for those who were desirous to partake of the Lord's Supper. The liberality of the illustrious Prince was, therefore, well‐timed, and will hasten the completion of a work the want of which had been felt even at the time of his Royal Highness's residence at the university of that town.  pro- posal having been made that a great meeting of evan- gelical Christians, of di@ﬀerent churches and countries, should be held in London, for the purpose of associating and concentrating the strength of an enlightened Protes- tantism against the encroachment of Popery and Pusey- ism, and to promote the interests of a scriptural Chris- tianity, it has been thought desirable that a preliminary meeting of the various denominations in Great Britain and Ireland should be held and it has accordingly been decided that this preliminary conference shall take place at Liverpool on the 1st of October. It is expected that 200 ministers will be present, and that the proceedings will occupy three days.  short time since some of the bishops, in their places in the House of Lords, expressed their intention of allowing schoolmasters to become candidates for holy orders, without undergoing an university quali@ﬁcation. The Lord Bishop of London has recently been written to upon this subject, and the question put to him, whether he would or not allow schoolmasters to become candidates in his diocese ? His lordship replied by stating that, whatever other bishops might do, he should not depart from the ancient custom of requiring the candidates to have graduated at the universities of Oxford or  the commerce and unshackle the industry of this country. As a staunch free‐trader I should take my seat as your repre- sentative in the House of Commons. Cheers. Again, are you in favour of religious liberty and equality ? Do you agree with me in thinking that neither the state nor society ought to interfere with the religious belief of any man-that all creeds, sects, and religions, that Protestants, Ca- tholics, and Dissenters, Jews, and Christians, should be treated in every respect alike ? If you hold these opinions, then it is your duty to vote for me, for throughout the whole of my public and private career, in every thought, deed, and word, I have been true to the principles of religious liberty and equality. Again, would you do justice to Ire- land ? I have proved that I would by every vote that I have given on Irish a@ﬀairs. I have proved it since I came into this borough. I might have avoided all the danger of the contest if I would have shrunk from the side of justice to Ireland. I was asked how I should have voted with re- gard to the late grant to Maynooth. I might have evaded that question. I might have said I was not in Parliament when that measure was passed, that it was settled and gone by. I felt, however, that it was my duty to you honestly to state my opinion with regard to that grant, and I felt that, in justice to Ireland, I must have voted for it. For this de- claration I have been violently assailed by one section of the Liberal party. My opinions remain unshaken, and for rea- sons which I will shortly state. The great majority of the Irish nation have adhered to the religion of their fore- fathers, and are still Catholics. The piety of those ances- tors bequeathed vast property for the maintenance of the Catholic religion, and for the instruction of the Catholic priests. That property has been alienated, not to the uses of the state, nor for the bene@ﬁt of the whole Irish nation, but to the support of a religion which seven‐eighths of the people utterly disbelieve. As some slight compensation, perhaps, for this great wrong, the Irish Parliament granted a small sum of money, not to maintain the Irish priests, but to educate them, to render them @ﬁt for the performance of their duties. After the union of Great Britain and Ireland this grant was considered as a sort of contract it was con- tinued from year to year it had become inadequate for its purpose and last year it was proposed to make it su@ﬃ- cient. Now, I ask, could the House of Commons, with pro- priety, have rejected such a proposal ? Would not the re- fusal of this grant have been considered as tantamount to a declaration of hostility towards Ireland ? Would it not have con@ﬁrmed the assertion of the agitator, that there was no justice to be obtained from England ? Would it not have lent force to the cry of repeal of the union ? I answer, it would. I am opposed to the repeal of the union-no one more so but then I say, do justice to Ireland-destroy her monster church-the reproach of England-and when you have done this, then, and not till then, refuse the small grant to Maynooth. These are, brie@ﬂy, my opinions as a Radical upon them rests my only claim for your support. If you approve of them,-if you are in favour of free trade -if you desire a repeal of the corn laws-if you are friends to religious liberty and equality-if you are for the pro- gressive reform of the institutions of your country-and, lastly, if you would do justice to Ireland, then give me your votes. But if, on the contrary, you are opposed to free trade-if you love the corn laws@-if you would resist ex- tension of su@ﬀrage, triennial Parliaments, and vote by bal- lot-if you are in words only, but not in deeds, the friends of religious liberty and equality-and lastly, if you would o@ﬀer a deadly insult to Ireland by proposing the rescinding of the grant to Maynooth,-then I am not the man @ﬁt to re- present you I recommend you to select one or other of my antagonists. Now a few words with regard to those an- tagonists. First, with regard to Mr Pilcher Mr. Pilcher is a Tory. I say it with every respect, for he has as much right to his conscientious opinions as I have to mine. Our opinions are diametrically opposed. There is a fair up- standing @ﬁght between us, which the poll of to‐morrow will decide in my favour. But it is not merely on political grounds that Mr Pilcher claims your support. He lays claim to it on account of the local good he will do to the borough. In this respect Mr Pilcher far outbids me. I can only promise to attend to your parliamentary business. In- deed, it would be contrary to my principles. It would seem to me to be a species of corruption to attempt to bias your votes by any promises of pecuniary bene@ﬁt to yourselves, either individually or collectively. Magni@ﬁcent are the promises which Mr Pilcher is reported to have made. He is reported to have said that he would maintain all the hos- pitals, support all the dispensaries, and contribute to all the charities with which this borough abounds-that he would cleanse your borough of everything @ﬁlthy-that he would build docks for all the steam vessels-that he would accom- plish wonders with regard to the river Thames. Thus Mr Pilcher would buy you. Take care to use a popular ex- pression that you are not sold. Now, a few words to the friends of Mr. Miall, and to that gentle@man himself. 
had taken only one Prize during her Cruize, call'd the Lydia, of Pool which was retaken by the Captain the latter End of November. Capt. Griffin has put ſome Men on Board the Privateer, and employ'd her in getting Knowledge of the Enemy's Harbours and Places of an- choring. Wedneſday arrived the Lieutenant of his Maj@ey's Ship the Advice, Capt. Smith, with Diſpatches to the Lords of the Admiralty, withNews of the ſaſe Arrival of the ſaid Ship at Spithead from Barbadoes ſhe brings an Ac- count, that his Maje@y's Ship the Ludlow-Ca@le, Capt. Stevens, from Jamaica for London, having the 8th of O@ober met with a Storm, in Lat. 31, and receiving con- Damage, was put into Engliſh Harbour in Antigua to refit. 'Tis ſaid the Ludlow-Ca@le had lo@ all her Mas, and had ten Feet Water in her Hold when ſhe put into Antigua. The News of this Man of War is very con- derable, there having been thirty-two Guineas Inſurance give upon her. Letters from Newport in the Iſle of Wight adviſe, that la@ Tueſday Mr. Lawrence@, a Superviſor in the E@xciſe, and Mr. Corbet, an In@ſpe@or of the Cu@oms, a@i@ed by ſome Soldiers, ſeized two Ve@els carrying of Run Goods wherein were 1800 Weight of Tea, 60 Half Anchors of Brandy, with ſome Cambricks which were ſeized and carry'd to Portſmouth after a @out Engagement between the Soldiers and the Smugglers. They write from Sittingbourn, that la@ Thurſday ſe'n- night a Gang of forty Smugglers were attack'd by a great Number of the Country People, and ſome Soldiers, as they were carrying Wool to the Sea Side, in order to ſhip it for France but the Smugglers vanqui@ſh'd the A@@ailant@, and carry'd off their Goods. Several of the Countrymen were wonnded in the Engagement La@ Tueſday Night fell down Part of an old Building in London-Houſe Garden, Alderſgate-Street, formerly the Library, when the Biſhops of this See lived hoſpitably in their Palace, purchaſed for them by Bi@ſhop Henchman. This Accident happen'd about Ten, before Mr. David Avery and his Wife, who occupy'd that Part, were gone to bed and were miraculouſly preſerved, the Fall being within a Yard of the Fire-@de, where they ſat. They write from Saliſbury, that one Day la@ Week an unfortunate Accident happen'd to Mr. Hollis's Son of Redbridge in the County of Hants, who being out a ſhooting with another young Lad of the ſame Place, was by him unhappily ſhot through the Head. It ſeems they were in Purſuit of ſome Wild Ducks with a Hedge between them, and both ooping down, the latter fired his Piece, and the former @arting up at the ſame In@ant, received the Shot in the back Part of his Head, and died on the Spot. Robb'd. Mr. White, of Brentwood, by two Foot- Pads, as he was returning from London, near the Wood beyond Waltham, of upwards of 50 l. Marry'd. Mr. Gladwin, an eminent Organi@, to Miſs Shepherd, a Lady with a Fortune of 7000 l.-Mr. Snow- den, an eminent Norwich Fa@or at Stepney, to Miſs Jack- ſon, of Cullum-Street, a Lady with a Fortune of 5000 l. -@The Rev. Mr. Richard Wa@ſhbourne, of Edmonton in the County of Middleſex, to a Si@er of--Waſhbourne, E@@ſq of Pytc@hley in @n- all, Eſq@ of St. Mary Ottery, in Devon@ſhire, to Miſs Mary Holloway, of Bridgewater Square.-Mr. George Vaughan, to Miſs Moulſon.-@Mr. William Wi@lberforce, Son of William Wilberforce, @Eſq of Hell, to Miſs Thornton, Daughter of Robert Thornton, @Eſq Dead. The Right Hon. James Hamilton, Earl and Baron of Abercorn, and Baron P@aiſly Scotch Honours and Viſcount and Baron of Strabane in Ireland.-@Thomas Ruggles, Eſq an eminent Bays Fa@or and Clothier, re- puted worth 50,000 l.-@The Rev. Mr. John Bateman, Re@or of St. George's, Lincoln. Thurſday Bank Stock Books ſhut. India Stock 198@3 4ths. South Sea Stock Books @ſhut. Ditto Old Annuities 113@1 4th. Ditto New 113@1 4th. General Po@ Office, London, Jan. 12, 1743. Whereas the P@@o-Boy, carry@ing the  M@a to Stilton, was, Y@eerday the 11@th @Inant, about Six of the Clock in the Evening, attack'd on the Highway, at a Place call'd Standgate-Hole, by a ngle Highwayman, who preſented a Piol to the Po@-Boy's Brea@, and carry'd off the following Bags, vi@z. Durham,@ Hull, Bo@on, Falkingham, Lincoln, Horn@cale, Louth, Spalding, Stamford, Burn, and Peterborough. The Perſon who committed this @Robbery, is a lu@y Man, and bad on a large Dark Frock over his Coat, his Face was cover'd with Black, and he rode on a Dark Sorrel Horſe, with a White Face, and made offfor the Biggleſwade Road. @This, therefore, is to give Notice, that whoever @@ſhall apprehend and convi, or ca@uſe to be apprehended and con-@ vied, the Perſon who committed this Robbery, will be entitled to a Reward of Two Hundred Pounds, over and above the Reward given by A@ of Parliament for apprehend- ing of Highwaymen or if any Perſon or Perſons, whether Accomplice in the ſaid Robbery, or knowing thereof, ſhall make a Diſcovery, whereby the Perſon, who committed the ſame, may be apprehended and brought to @Ju@ice, ſuch Diſ- coverer or Diſcoverers will, upon Conv@iion of the Party, be intitled to the ſame Reward of Two Hundred Pounds, and alſo have his Maje@y's @mo@ gracious Pardon. By Command of the Po@-Ma@er-General.  Secretary.  our La@. Edgly Smith, late of Eyre, in the County of Suffolk, Merchant, Vintner and Innholder. Benjamin Plimpton, now or late of the Pariſh of St. Paul Shad@well, in the County of Middleſex, Woolcomber, Dealer and Chapman. William Be@, late of St. John's-Street, in the Pariſh of St. Sepulchre, in the County of Middleſex, Dealer and Chap@@man. Jo@ſhua Lewis, of Newbury in the County of Barks, Brazier and Chapman. Gooday Carter, of Great Cogge@ſhall, in the County of Eex,  Innholder and Chapman. This Day is publiſh'd,  CAUSE and @EF, Or, The Innocent MURDERER A New TRAGEDY. As it is a@ed at the T@heatre-Royal in D@@rury Lane. Printed for  Covent- Garden. Price One Shilling. This Day are publiſh'd, PROPOSALS for Printing by  the Materials in the @Harleian Library, A   STATE TRACT@S, During the Reigns of Queen ANNE and King GEORGE I. On the mo important and intere@ing Subj@es and Events, which occurr'd within that  1. Several curious Pieces re- lating to the Succe@ion, and the State of Parties at the Death of King William. 2. The Expediency of a Land War. 3. Occa@onal Conformity. 4. The State of Scotland, and the Troubles appreh@ended from the Scots A@ of Security. 5 The Danger of the Church. 6. Hanover Su@cceion. 7. The grand Controverſy be- tween the Lords and Commons, on the Caſe of the Aylesbury Me@n. 8. The Union of the two Kingdoms. 9. The Caſe of Gregg, a Clerk in Mr Secretary Harley's Office. 10. Sacheverel's Affair. 11. The Party-War before and after the Change of the @Miniry. 12. The Negotiations for a Peace. 13. Whig and Tory Advices, Ex@hortations, c. to the Free- holders of England. 14. On the Treaty of Gertruy- denburgh. 15. Mſnager's Negotiations. 16. Barrier Treaty. 17. Condu@ of the Earls of Peterborough and Galway in Spain. 18. Caſes of the Duke of  Mr. Walpole, and Mr. Steele. 19. The Liberty of tie Preſs. 20. Treaty of  Treaty of Com@mence. 22. Demolition of Dunkirk. 23. Schiſm @Bi Mini@ry. 25. Tory and Wieg Advice to the Freehold rs of Engla@@nd, im- mediately after t@he Acceion of King George. 26. Hi@@ of the White Staff. 27. @n and Ap- pologies f@or@ the @Admini@ ation during the four la Years of the Queen. 28. Caſe of the Duke of Or- mond. 29. The Rebellion. 30. The Swediſh Conſpiracy. 31.@ The Septennial Bill. 32. The Def@eion. 33. The Peerage Bill. 34. Sir George @Byng's Exploit in the @Mediterrane@an. 35. Diſputes relating to the National Debt. 36. The Harbourg Lottery. 37. The South-Sea Calamity. 38 Cafe of the Bank Contract. 39. Layer's Plot. 40. Caſe of the Bi@ſhop oſ  ch@eer. And, 41. The Commencement of the late  equal Value, though not re-general Hd. The whole dige@ed in Order of Time @@or, otherwiſe ſo diſpoſed, as that a whole Controverſy may be ſeen t@ogether. CONDITIONS. I. This Wor@k is intended to make three Volumes in Folio, at the Price of one Guinea each Volume in Sheets and ſhall be printed on a beautiful Paper with a neat Letter. II. No Money is required but on the Delivery of the Bock. III. The Wo@rk is ready for the Preſs, and will be put in Hand as ſoon as 250 are ſubſcribed for. IV. Thoſe Gentlemen, who are willing to encourage this@@@@ Wo de@red to be ſpeedy in ſending their Names to any of the following Bookſeller@s R. FR@ANCKLI@N in Covent-Garden T. OSBORNE, in Grav's- Ian J. and H.  in Fleet-Street and R.  D@ay is publiſh'd, in a neat Pocket Volume, Price O@ne Shilling and Sixpence, The Muſe in Good Humour. Or, a Colle@ion of Comic Tales, c. from Chaucer, Prior,@ Swift, La Fontaine, Dr. King, and other eminent Poets. Together with ſome Originals. V@I@Z. The Country@'Squire and @his Man John. The Curious Maid. The Silent Flute or the Mem- ber@s Speecht their Sovereign. Ha@ns C@arvel's Ring@@ or a Charm again@ Cuckoldo@m. The Lout looking for his Heifer. Phyllis or the Progreſs of Love. Little Mouths. Paulo Purganti and his Wife. Strephon and Chloc or Beauty @meer mortal. The Amorous Groom. A Riddle upon Kitty's Dream. C@ainus and Peter @@or Caelia at St--l. The Fair Nun or Woman an Over-match for the Devil. A beautiful young Nymph going to Bed. The Ladle or the Triple Wi@ſh. A Pa@oral Dialogue between De@rmont and Shelah, two Iri@ſh Lovers. A Deſcription of a Lady's Dreſ- ng Room. A Medicine for the Ladies. The Saddle. The Furniture of a Woman's Mind. The Spinning-Wheel. The Dream. A Pa@oral Court@ſhip. Mele@nda's Misfortune on the hur@ing her Smock. Fulvia, orPhy@ck ſor the Lad@ies. The Curious Wife. The  The Miller of Trompington. TheGli@er. A Riddle upon Somet@@hing. A Match for the Devil. Printed for J. Noble, at Dryden's Head in St. Martin's Court, near Lei@ceer Fields. This is to give N@O@T@I@C@E, To  and Others, that YOU may have good Druggets, Sagathie, and Deroy Snits made well and @ſaſhionable for the fir@ Size Men at 3 l. 10 S. a Suit, and the larger Size at 4 l. an.! Cloth Serge, com- monly call'd by the Name of German Serge Salts for l. and   Suit, and Livery Snits for 4 l. and 4 @l 10 S. colour'd and black. Cloth Suits for 5 l. and 5 l. 10  S@@uit. at the TWO Golden Balls the upper End of et Covent Garden. And Horſman's Great Coars  20 S, a pce, blue Cloak Bags  ready made. J. W@@@N, At the Hand-and@-@Pen, o@ver-@again@ Water- Lane in Fleet-Street, CONTINUES to teach any Gentle- man or Lady his New@ Method of SHORTS- HAND, within SIX Weeks they writing at Home ONE Hour a Day, and coming or ſending to him  in TWO Days. He alſo takes down TRIALS at LAW, @c. and tells, 1. His SHORT-HAND GRAMMAR, @curiously engrav'd, and authoriz'd by his Maj@ey which  to teach the Art perfe@ly, as is atte@ed at t@he b@eginni@@ng of t@he Book, by a great N@umber of Gentlemen of the Cle@rgy,  for@merly taught. Price One Guinea and a Half, a@nd Two Guineas on Roya@@  any Thing ſeems doubtful, he will explain it gratis. 2. His Short-Hand COMMON-PRAYER-BOOK, Price One Pound Five Shillings. The uncommon Succeſs, above forty Years la pa@, of the ſo much fam'd and only true original Royal Chymical WASH BALL, For beautiſying the Face, Neck and@ Heads hath in-  not only in every Part of  @@@many Places in @the Country, to ſell a  which may prove prejudicial as well as  @Imitation of the true  as much as poible a@ny Miakes in Prejudice to  we give this ſpecial  @@Th@ @true Sort are now ſold only at @Mrs. Wharton's was King Toy-@rop, the Bu-c@oat Boy near the Royal Exchange, in Cornhill, and by  at the @Blue Ball near the Inner Temple @Gate in First-reet, Price 1@5. each Ball, or  to the dozenen   12 Ball@s at a Time, n@ will they    elſe, except Notice be @ given in  real Virtues have been ſu@icientlyatteed in all the Years t@h@at they have been ſold by Publication, and the more ſo, as th@ey are @ill more than ever uſed and a@dmir'd by bot@h Sexes  @be Quality, and m@any Thouſa@nds of Gentry and others, for making the Skin ſo delicately @ſoft and @ſmooth, as not @@   Kind of Form f@or  Balls are in- deed re@al  Skin, by taking  Ring-worms,s, Morphw, Sun-burn, es, Pits, o@r Redneſs of the Small Pox, and keeping it of a l@aing and extreme Whiteneſs they ſoon alter red or rough ands are admirable in ſhaving the Head, not only giving a@@ -Sharpneſs to the Rr, but ſo co@mfort the Brain and Nerves, as to prevent ca@tch- ing Cold. They are of a grateful and pleaſant  @wi@ lea@ Grain of Mercury, and may be eaten for their Safety. The mo@ delightful fragrant TINC@TURE for the B@ GUMS. At once u@ng makes the  fine,  pleaſant, the  clean, and  the mo certain Cure  in the G@ums in the World. It infai@ly preſerves the Breath, Teeth and Gums in their   ty n, if they are no ways diſorder'd, and if t@@@hey fects for the  Breath @Im-li and i@@n a ſhort Time ſo eff@eually cutes, that a diſa-  Breath will not return. It in@antly makes the blanke@ and mo@ foul Teeth extremely white a@nd delicately beautiful  preſerves  caying, an@d thoſe a little decay'd from becoming  the Scurvy in the Gums, be it ever ſo inveterate,  to grow up to the  te  uſed but fe@w Dr at a Time, is exceeding pleaſant,  a very grateful  Flavour in the @@Mouth In a Word, for mo@ tfully performing, and quickly curing an ill-scented Breath, for @immediatel@y ly white, certa@ fr@om  or decaying,  ing the S@curvy   not   @Quality and principal Gentry who uſe it ack@nowledge. It is to b@had only at Mr. @R Clement's Church-yard in the Strand, at 5 s. 6 d. a Bottle, with  Fam'd and Long-experienced  for ASTHMA's and CONSU@M@PTIONS. T@hat have been ſold ſo many Years, and @with ſuch uncommo@n Suc- ceſs @and Benefit to the Publick, by @Mr. Parry and his Prede- c@eors B@oar's-Head-Cour @nce Mr. Parry's Dece@aſe, have been and ill are ſold in London, only by @Mr. Reads for 3 s. 6 d. each Vial, at his Houſe in s @N. B. You turn in ju@ by the Sun Tavern in Fleet-@reet, and its the great Corner Houſe in White-Fryars James Read in great Letters is wrote over the Door@@. They are a m@o incomparable and never-failing Medi@@cine for the immediate Reli@, and perfe@ Cure of the @mo @@@HM@A of the longe anding And all Sorts of CONSUMPTIONS, even when ſo far advanced as not to he cured by any other Medicine in the World. For their Virtues va@ly exceed any Thing that ever w@as publiſhed, or even known i@n the whole World in the Cure of the wor Ahma's and Co@nſumptions of all Sorts, Coughs, Colds, Catarrhs, c. They in@antly relieve the Patient in the mo ſuffocating Fit of an A@hm@a, and make a perfe@ Cure in a very  they gently open the @Bre@a, and immediately give Liberty of Breathing, without Danger of taking Cold they admirably alley the Tick- ling, which provokes frequent Coughing, and  Senſation of acrimonious Humours, cleanſe   Glands, relax the Fes, and thereby enlarge the Capa thus they regularly and quickly cure the s of the longe anding. @They ſpeedily and to Admiration cure all ſorts of Conſamptions,@ Ulcers  L@ungs, c. removing all Obru@ions of the Brea@ and Lungs, Hoarſeneſs, Whee@ng,  and all the uſual Symptoms which attend t@he Beg@i@nnings of a Con-@@  if taken in time, will infallibly prevent @one when fear'd. They are alſo exceeding nutritive, and reng@t to Perſons of weakly Conitutions, and have no other ſenble Opera- tion than to occation a gentle Breathing in the Night. A@nd by Parity of Reaſo@ning this mo@  @Medicine is and is well known to be the @m@o ſovereign Remedy in the World for thoſe troubleſome ſpending Coughs, which many are ſeverely trou- bled with Night and Morning and alſo for the Chin-Cough and Hopping-Coug@h in Children, having cured Thouſands is ſo  and ſo few Drops to a Doſe, that Children take the@m with Pleaſure and without any Confinement. In ſhort, theſe unparallel'd Chymical Drops are the mo@  Reme@dy that ever was know@,  Efforts of all Counterfeiters or Imitators for the Ailments a v- mention'd, are allow'd to be ſo by the mo@ Judicious @arned in Phy@ck and confirm'd by the  Pra@ice and are made publics f@or common Good @N. B. They are ſen@t to many   in  to ſell them again, they will keep good, 
 the measure had been assumed by each as a retaliation f@or an asserted acquiescence in the aggressions of the other, it was reasonably expected that the occasion would have been seized by both, for evincing the sincerity of their professions, @and for restoring to the United States its legi@- t@imale freedom. The instructions to our @Ministers, with respect to the di@ﬀerent Belligerents, were necessarily mo- di@ﬁed with a reference, to their di@ﬀerent circumstances, and to the condition annexed@@ by law to the executive power of suspension, requiring a degree of security to our commerce, which would not result from a repeal of the decrees of France. Instead of a pledge, therefore, for a suspension of the Embargo as to her, in case of such@@ a repeal, it was pres@umed that a su@@ﬃcient inducement might be found in other considerations, and particularly in the change pr@oduced by a compliance with our just de- mand@, by one Belligerent, and a refusal by the o@ther, in the relations between this other and t@he@ United States. To @Great Britain, whose power on the ocean is so ascend- ant, it was deemed not inconsistent with that condition, to state, explicitly, that on @her rescinding her Orders in re- lation to the commerce @of the United States, their trade would be opened with @her, and remain shut to her enemy, in case of his @failure to rescind his Decrees also. From France no answer has bee@n received, nor any indication that the requisite change i@n her@ Decrees is contemplated. The favourable reception of the proposition to @Great Bri- tain @was the lest to be doubted, as her Orders of Counci@l had not only been referred for their, vindication to an ac- quiescence on the part of the United States, no longer to @be pretended but as the arrangement proposed, whiIst it resisted t@he illegal Decrees of France, involved, moreover, substantially the precise advantages professedly aimed at@ by the British Orders.@ The arrangement has neverthe- less been rejected. @@This candid and liberal experiment having thus failed, and no other event having occurred on which a suspension of the Embargo by the Executive was authoris- ed, it necessarily remains in the extent originally give@n to it. We have the satisfaction, however, to re@ﬂect, that@ in return for the privations imposed by the measure, and which ourfellow‐citizen@s in general @have borne with pa- triotism, it has had the important e@ﬀects of saving our mariners and our vast mercantile property, as well as of a@ﬀording time for prosecuting the defensive and provisional measures called for by the occasion. It has demonstrated to foreign nations the moderation and @ﬁrmness which govern our councils, and to our citizens the necessity of uniting in support of the laws and the rights of their coun- try and has t@hus long frustrated those usurpations and spoliations which, if resisted, involved war if submitted to, sacri@ﬁceda vital principle of our national independence. Under a continuance of the belligerent measures, which, in de@ﬁance of laws which consecrate the rights of neutrals, overspread the ocean with danger, it will rest with the wisdom of Congress to decide on the course best adapted to such a state of things and bringing with them, as they do, from every part of the Union, the semi- ments of our@ constituents, my con@ﬁdence is strengthened that in forming this decision, they@ will, with an unerring regard to the essential rights and interests of the nation, weigh and compare the painful alternatives out of which a choice is to be made. Nor should I do justice to the virtues which on other occasions have marked the charac- ter of our fellow‐citizens, if I did not cherish an equal con@ﬁdence that the alternative chosen, whatever it may be, will be maintained with all the fortitude and patriot- ism which the crisis ought to inspire. The documents containing the correspondence on the subject of the foreign edicts against our commerce, with the instructions given to our Ministers at London and Paris, are now laid before you. The Communication made to Congress at their last Ses-sion explained the posture in which the close of the  relative to the attack by a British ship of war on th@e frigate Chesapeake, left a subject on which the nation had manifested so honourable a sensibility. Every view of what had passed authorized a belief that immediate steps would be taken by the British @Government for redressing a wrong, which, the more it was investigated, appeared the more clearly to require what had not been provided for in t@@he special mission. It is found that no steps have been taken for the purpose. On the contrary, it will be seen in the documents laid before you, that the inadmissible prelimi- nary which obstructs the adjustment is still adhered to and, moreover, that it is now brought into connexion with the distinct and irrelative case of the Orders in C@ouncil. The instructions which had been given to our Ministers at London, with a view to facilitate, if necessary, the repa- ration claimed by the @United States, are included in the documents communicated. Our relations with the other Powers of Europe have undergone no material changes since your last Ses- sion. The important negociatio@ns with Spain, w@hich had been alternately suspended and resumed, necessarily expe- rience a pause, under the extraordinary and interesting crisis which distinguish he@@r internal situation. With the Barbary Powers we continue in harmony, with the exception of an unjussti@ﬁable proceeding of the Dey of Algiers towards our Consul to that Regency. Its character and circumstances are now laid before you, and will enable you to decide how far it may, either now or hereafter, call for any measures not within the limits of the Executive Authority. @Wit@h our Indian neighbours the public peace has been steadily @@mainta@ined. Some instances of individual w@rong have, as at other times, taken place, but in no wise implicating the will of @the nation. Beyond the Mis- sissippi, the @Lo@ways, the Saca, and the Alibamas, have delivered up, for trial and punishment, individuals from among themselves accused of murdering citizens of the United States, @@on@ this side, the Mississippi the Creeks are exerting themselves to arrest o@ﬀenders of the same kind and the Choctaws have manifested their readiness and desire for amicable and just arrangements, respect- ing depredations committed by disorderly persons of their tribe. And generally, from a conviction that we consider them as a part of ourselves, and cherish@ w@ith sincerity their rights and interests, the attachment of the Indian tribes is gaining strength daily is extending from the nearer to t@he more remote, and will amply requite us for the justice and friendship practised towards them hus- bandry and household manufacture are advancing a@@mong them more rapidly with the southern than the northern tribes, from circumstances of soil and climate @and one of the two great divisions of the Cherokee Nation have now under consideration, to solicit the Citizenship of t@he United States, and to be identi@ﬁed with us in law@s and government, in such progressive manner as we shall think best. In consequence of the appropriations of the last Session of Congress for the security of our seaport towns and harbours, such works of defence have been erected, as seemed to be called for by the situation of the several places, their relative importance, and the scale of ex- pence indicated by the amount of the appropriation. These works will chie@ﬂy be ﬁnished in the course of the present season, except at New York and New Orleans, where most was to be done and although a great pro- portion of the last appropriation has been expended on the former place, yet some further views @will be submit- ted to Congress, for rendering its security entirely ade- quate against naval enterprise. A view of what has been done at several places, and of what is proposed to be done, shall be communicated as soon as the several re- ports are received. Of the gun‐boats authorised by the Act of Decem- ber last, it has been thought necessary only to build 1
 the superintendent @onsist@s of a large box, having  which is struck like the bell of a clock within this box is a piece of clock- work, precisely similar to that of an alarum, and a red lamp of nights and from the box, which is in- tended to be @ﬁxed to the nearest carriage to the engine,  the roofs of the various carriages to the guard's box, who, upon perceiving any signal of danger @, has on@ly to p@ull t@he cord, and the large bell is instantly  and the large bell is instantly rung, and the red lamp shown if  board, with the word ' Stop ' upon it,  ' upon it, @ﬂies up, so that the engine‐driver's attention is attracted both by sight and sound to the impending danger. The model was highly approved of by several scienti@ﬁc persons who viewed it, and is to be shown to Mr Hudson on Wednesday next, on the occasion of his visiting Bristol. It is a very praiseworthy thing in Mr Williams to en- deavour to give practical shape to the recent suggestions of Count d'Orsay@ but it is surely very simple and not very ingenious, to claim as his own invention what so manifestly belongs to another. THE LITERARY EXAMINER. @Two Letters on Southern Slavery. Addressed to Thomas Clarkson, Esq. By J. H. Hammond. Columbia, United States. A Planter and Slave‐O@wner hailing from a place called Silver Blu@ﬀ in which we fancy something so expressive of the gentleman th@at we can hardly imagine him to be more aptly located, unless indeed it were at Brazen Blu@ﬀ, which might be better still @ﬁnds that having abundant leisure it will be a recreation to him to write a couple of letters to Thomas Clarkson. Accordingly, in some spare intervals of Julep, Cocktail, Moral 'Suasion and the like, and with the @ﬂavour of these strong drinks rather hot upon him, he goes a‐head at a pace which we believe is familiarly compared in his own country to greased lightning and shows that Slavery, as now existing in America, is a sacred, holy, blessed institution expressly founded and commanded by Almighty God, and not to be disputed but by in@ﬁdels and blasphemers. The gates of Heaven are barred, says the Ordinary to Jonathan Wild, against all revilers of the clergy. They are barred, and double‐locked, and bolted, says religious Hammond, against all revilers of Slavery. It will be immediately seen that J. H. Hammond is a pious man. Of his spiritual sprinkling, as Mrs Cole calls it, Slavery has been the precious instrument. American Slavery is to Hammond what precious Mr Squintem was to Mrs Cole. But for it, he might have been tossing in the sea of sin, like a ship, without rudder or compass might have struck against the rocks of reprobation and have been quite swallowed up in the whirlpool of despair. But happily for him, his lot was cast in Carolina so he buys, and sells, and breeds, and @ﬂogs, and maims, and does the will of his Father which is in Heaven. Abolition is impossible, says he. There is a God who rules this world-All‐Powerful-Far‐see- ing. He does not permit His creatures to foil His designs. Slavery in all its beautiful forms is His design. Therefore, the Clarksons fail. Therefore, the Hammonds triumph. We accept the Bible terms, says Hammond, as the de@ﬁnition of our Slavery, and its precepts as the guide of our conduct. We desire nothing more. Even the right to ' bu@ﬀet,' which is esteemed so shocking, @ﬁnds its express licence in the Gospel.@-1 Peter, ii, 20. And is piously and religiously recognised in this part of the Law of North Carolina, which happens to lie ready to our hand. Provided always, this act an act for pretending to make the wilful slaughter of a slave, murder shall not extend to the person killing a slave outlawed by virtue of any act of assembly of this State, or to any slave in the act of resistance to his lawful owner, or to any slave DYING  adminis- tered according to the Gospel of 1 Peter, ii, 20, of course. It appears that the Scriptural directions, on the head of the personal dis@ﬁguremeut of slaves, are very precise indeed. For, says Hammond, Go@d directs the Hebrews to bore holes in the ears of their brothers to mark them.-Ex. xxi, 6. The ear is therefore, with these new children of Israel, a very favourite place in which to dis@ﬁgure slaves. Brought to jail, John. Left ear cropt.@@ Taken up, a negro man. Is very much scarred about the ear and body, and has the left ear bit o@ﬀ. Ran away, a negro boy, Jack. Has a small crop out of his left ear. Ran away, Joe Dennis. Has a small notch in one of his ears. Ran away,  Has a small piece cut out of the  These are some of the adver-@ tisements emanating from bereaved slaveholders,@ were republished by Mr Dickens-that impure@@ fountain, as Hammond calls him. It is gratifying to @@observe the close adherence to the text, Ex. xxi, 6 and to know how diligently these good people act up to the very letter of their Bibles. Who, after this, can challenge this most pious writer, when he adds- I think, then, I may safely conclude, and I @ﬁrmly be- lieve, that American Slavery is@ not only not a sin, but espe- cially commanded by God through Moses, and approved by Christ through His apostles ! An Institution, founded and approved on such authority, cannot fail to be a perfect heaven on earth. Our slaves are the happiest three millions of human beings on whom the sun shines. Into their Eden is coming Satan in the guise of an abolitionist. Nor can it fail to be again and again con@ﬁrmed in Holy Writ, as thus the italics being Ham- mond's own. At the hazard of fatiguing you by repetition, I will again refer you to the ordinances of the Scriptures. Innu- merable instances might be quoted where God has given and commanded men to assume dominion over their fellow men. But one will su@@ﬃce. In the 25th chapter of Levi- ticus, you will @ﬁnd Domestic Slavery-precisely such as is maintained at this day in these States-ordained and esta- blished by God, in language which I defy you to pervert so as to leave a doubt on any honest mind that this Institution was founded by Him, and decreed to be perpetual. Or thus In the time of Christ it was usual for masters to put their slaves to death on the slightest provocation. They even killed and cut them up to feed their @ﬁshes. He was undoubtedly aware of these things, as well as of the law and commandment I have quoted. He could only have been restrained from denouncing them, as he did the ' lex talionis,' because he knew that, in despite of these barba- rities, the Institution of Slavery was at the bottom a sound and wholesome as well as lawful one. We have no doubt in our own mind, now, that the miraculous draught of @ﬁshes, and the few small @ﬁshes that were the subject of the Miracle, had all been fed on slaves and that they were especially selected by the Divine Preacher of the Sermon on the Mount, by reason of their sound and whole- some fattening. But Slavery in America is not only surrounded by the halo of religion, it appears it is embellished with a poetry peculiar to itself. Our patriarchal scheme of domestic servitude is indeed well calculated to awaken the higher and @ﬁner feelings of our nature. It is not wanting in its enthusiasm and its poetry. The relations of the most beloved and honoured chief, and the most faithful and admiring subjects, which from the time of Homer have been the theme of song, are frigid and unfelt compared with those existing between the master and his slaves-who served his father, and rocked his cradle, or have been born in his house‐hold, and look forward to serve his children-who have been through life the props of his fortune, and the objects of his care-who have partaken of his griefs, and looked to him for comfort in their own-whose sickness he has so often watched over and relieved-whose holidays he has so often made joyous by his bounties and his presence for whose welfare when absent his anxious solicitude never ceases, and whose hearty and a@ﬀectionate greetings never fail to welcome him home. How strange it is how striking an example of the perversity of human nature-of black human nature, at all events that from all this Homeric poetry these happiest human beings on whom the sun shines in its course will run away perpetually ! @ﬁlling the newspapers in the Slave States, so surely as their publication days come round, with adver- tisements descriptive of their gashed and rotten persons, at which the wicked stomachs of in@ﬁdels sicken, and against which the whole soul of man rebels ! The God‐appointed owners are ' the fathers ' of the slaves ' their shepherds ' everything that is Arcadian, patriarchal, and protective -Hammond says a thousand times. But mark the sudden descent from the Cross the rapid fall from Heaven to Earth the @ﬂying o@ﬀ of Mrs Cole, at a tangent, from Squintem to the black‐eyed girl of Rosemary lane which is revealed in the following short para- graph. The only honest one in @ﬁfty pages. Nay, supposing that we were all convinced, and thought of slavery precisely as you do, at what era of ' moral 'sua- sion ' do you imagine you could prevail on us to give up a thousand millions of dollars in the value of our slaves, and a thousand millions of dollars more in the depreciation of our lands, in consequence of the want of labourers to culti- vate them ? Consider were ever any people, civilized or savage, persuaded by any argument, Human or Divine, to surrender voluntarily two thousand millions of dollars ? Even Pious Hammond's Piety comes down to dollars. Come ! Buy us o@@ﬀ, says Hammond and we'll soon accommodate our Bibles to the bargain. You shall have them, in, if you will only buy us. Yet Hammond thinks that when a base dollar bears a blasphemous presentment of the author of all goodness on its front, it will be taken for celes- tial coin, and will have your true angelic ring The Devil is never so simple as when he quotes Scripture for his own ends. Hammond de@ﬁes public opinion. As for the suggestion, to exclude slaveholders from your London clubs, says he, we scout it. Many of us, indeed, do go to London, and we have seen your breed of gawky Lords both there and here - he seems to have contemplated the breed with a true dealer's eye, by the way - but it never en tered into our conception to look on them as bet- ter than ourselves. Nor can we be annoyed by the ridiculous airs of such upstarts as your O'Con- nells, Ritchies, Macaulays, and the like. But, oh Godlike‐Hammond, we can be annoyed -we can be made very restless and uneasy in our slave‐poetry‐surrounded beds-by the idea of any foreign nation being so lost to every sentiment of civilized humanity as to attempt to erect among us the standard of revolt, or to invade us with Black Troops, for the base and barbarous purpose of stirring up servile war. And when that dread- ful hour of retribution shall arise-as come it must, one day from some dark quarter, if men like you perpetuate this system of atrocious infamy and wrong, this scandal to the truth and justice of mankind-may some scant grain of truth among the monstrous distortions of it which are unblush- ingly put forth to shield the crime of tra@@ﬃcking in human life and liberty some grateful recollection in the breast of an old slave for some old momen- tary kindness done preserve the doer from that Red Sea in which the host of charioteers whose cars are dragged by slaves through a false land assuming to be free, shall surely vanish from the earth ! Not to‐day, O Lord ! O not to‐day, but in the fulness of their blind resistance to the dictates of Humanity and Right in the noontide of their outrageous prostitution of the names of Liberty and of Religion raise up thine instruments of vengeance from among the lashed and miser- able beings crouching at their feet, and strike them down with the accumulated wrath of Gene- rations ! There is no e@ﬀort that any abolitionist Society in any part of the world could make, that would serve the cause of abolition half so well as the wide dissemination of such pamphlets as this. They should be reprinted by scores of thousands. Their incredible audacity, and their miserable fee- bleness, are means more potent towards the great end than any that ingenuity could devise. Journals of Expeditions of Discovery into Central Australia, and Overland from Adelaide to King George's Sound. By Edward John Eyre, Resi- dent Magistrate, Murray River. Two vols. Boone. These expeditions were made in 1840 and '41, but the author's subsequent o@@ﬃcial employments in South Australia delayed the publication of his book. The greater part of the second volume is devoted to an acc@ount of the Manners and Cus- toms of the Aborigines, and of the state of their relations with Europeans. In undertaking his expeditions into the northern interior of Australia Central Australia, by the way, he cannot be said to have penetrated , Mr Eyre represented the general body of colonists, and took part in the pecuniary as well as personal risk but received the general sanction of the Government, and some particular aids from them. The hope was that these expeditions might lead to the discovery of a good country, or at any rate open an available route across the Continent. In both points anticipation failed and the actual re- sult is as dreary as can be well imagined. Mr Eyre discovered no important rivers, laid open no fertile regions for future colonization. He found nothing but a sterile and desolate wilderness. Through this he toiled for more than twelve months, in the midst of dangers and su@ﬀerings which proved fatal to three of his small party. These appear to have been in- deed appalling. Their supplies were exhausted they had to kill and eat their horses and but for a lucky accident at last, must surely have perished. His narrative has the interest of a sturdy and gal- lant perseverance, unrewarded but by the sense of duty interest of any other kind it has necessarily little. But this is much in itself. Mr Eyre writes with the plain una@ﬀected earnestness of the best of the old travellers. It is not to be omitted, be- sides, that several important geographical ob- servations were made and that Mr Eyre's failure suggested schemes for success in other direc- tions. Naturally, he is not sanguine as to these but he speaks with warm enthusiasm of the e@ﬀort at present in progress by Captain Sturt, to lift the veil from that still mysterious interior, which he failed himself to raise. It is a year since Captain Sturt set out, and, by communications since received from him, it would appear that he is sanguine of having realized the long hoped‐for sea, and of having at last found a key to the centre of the continent. A brief extract will show the general character of Mr Eyre's narrative, and the su@ﬀerings far from the most desperate of his party. March 9.-Moving on early we passed through a simi- lar country to that we had before traversed but there was more of the tea‐tree scrub, which made our travelling more di@@ﬃcult and fatiguing. This kind of scrub, which is dif- ferent from any I had seen before, is a low bush running along the ground, with very thick and crooked roots and branches, and forming a close matted and harassing obstacle to the traveller. The sheep and horses got very tired, from having to lift their legs so high to clear it every step they took. To the westward we found the country rising as we advanced, and the cli@ﬀs becoming higher..... After travelling twenty@‐ﬁve miles we halted for an hour or two to rest the sheep and horses, feeding was out of the ques- tion, for they were too much in want of water to attempt to@
 to break them, wherever He ſhall t@hi@@nk proper, are ridiculous for with . Prince, who is guied rather by Ambition or Ineell than by Jullice and Moderation, they can never be binding and with one of a d@iﬀerent Cha- ra@er, they are needleſs the o@ne will not be re@rain'd by them, and the other will a@ by the Rules of Equity, and conllt the Good of his People without them. Hence, it is evident, that the Engliſh, in the Time of the Norman  a'd with Folly for not inll- ing on Terms with a Prince urou@nded by a powerful and vi@orious Army, than we to be applauded for our Pre- cautions, had we had the Misfortune of ſe@uling  Cr@@own on a Prince@, who would have @made his own Will the Rule of his A@ions, nce Hi@ory ſhews that Parliaments have been purchaſed, who were ready to give into every Mee agreeable to a Court conſequently a Standing Army might be granted to prevent Inva@ons, however groundleſs the Pretence @@which would enable ſuch a Sove- ign to treat all Conditions with Contempt, and ſuch as @ſhould dare to mention them with Severity. I am,  Day are publiſh'd, In   O@avo, REMARKS on the HISTORY of ENG@LAND. By HUMPHREY OLDCASTLE, Eſq Printed for ‐Street, Covent- Garden. @@Where may be had, A  Dedicated to the Right @Hon. Sir  A @December 25@. Y@eerday Admiral Mathews ar- rived here, who was immediately condu@ed to the King's Pre@ſe@nce, by whom he was received with the utmo@ Di- in@ion @and, after a very long Audience, had a Con- rence, which la@ed ſeveral. Hours, with the M. de Or-@ mes. It is ſaid his Excellency would remain here two or three Days and that t@he Occ@aon of his Journey is the righty Armament at Toulon, which is believed to be egain@ the Dominions of the King our Sovereign. For this @Reaſon, all imaginable Precautions are taking to put both our Country, and our Army, into the be Situation p@@oble, by fortifying all our Maritime Places,@ by adding a Battalion to moll of our Regiments of Foot, and nego- tiating a Body of Forces from a certain Foreign Power, wic@h are ſpeedily to enter into his Maj@ey's Service. Vienna, January 1. M. Lanzinſki, the  has been often at Court of late, and, for the la@ Time, this Morning when he made a preremptory De- claration, That the Czarina, his Mi@res, expe@ed a ſuit- able Satisf@aion on the Condu@ of the Marquis de Botta, and that immediately. We are @the more ſurprized at this, becauſe our Gazetes had inform'd us, that the Af- fair was ſome Way adju@ed which, however, is ſo far from being true, that, it is ſaid, we ſhall be obliged to de- re the Interpotion of his Britannick Maj@ey, in order to bring it @moany Train of Accommodation. Franfort, January 8. @@The Mini@er of the Erne@ine, or the Ducal, Houſe of Saxony, has enter'd a Pr@ote@ here, again@ the El@@er Palatine's continuing in t@he Po@@eſ- on of the Dutchies of Bergues and Juliers. The Mar- quis Pallavitini, Mini@er fro@m the Republick of Genoa, has preſented a Memorial to the Dyet, conce@ived in the @@mo@ patheick Terms by which he demands@ the Pro- te@ion of the Empire, again@ t@he Contra@ing Parties in the late Treaty of Worms, wherein an Article is in- ſerted, for depriving the Rpablick of the Marquiſate of Final which is a Fief of the Empire, and of which they have received the Inve@iture from the Empire. We are told, that the Court of Vienna in@@s, that the Republick has no Right whatſoever to trouble the Dyet on this Oc- ca@on becauſe there was a Clauſe in the Inrument, by which the late Emperor diſpoſed of this Marquiſate to the Republic@k, reſerving a Power of Redemption and that it is of little or no Conſequence to the Empire, whether that Fief remains in the Po@@@eon of the Genoeſe, or is trans- err'd to the King of Sardinia. Manheim, January 6. According to our la Advices from‐Alſace, the French are in the ut@mo@ Apprehen@ons on account that the Rhine Begins to freeze and they very @@@much doubt, whether the H@@uars will not take the @ﬁr@ Opportunity of pa@@ng it, and ravaging all the Country on the other Side. We have lately certain Advice fro@m Vienna, that the Queen of Hungary has declared, @ſhe is as well dilpoſed to Peace as can be wi@ſh'd but that it is i@mpo@@ble for her to admit of any Treaty but upon this Ba@‐ that a reaſonable Equivalent be given her for pa@ Les,  a @@ſuﬂicient Security for the Time to come. We apprehend from this Declaration, that a general Peace is not ſo near as we could wiſh on the con@tray, we very much ſear, that the Flames of War will @ſhortly break out again in Germany. Ext@ra of a Letter from Con@@anti@nople, dated the 20th of November, 1743.@@ We have had the good @@@@News of Moſul's being ſaſe, and expe more of greater Conſequence for the Leſ- gees have taken Genge, Te@@@ in Georgia, with the Province of She@van, and is C@apital Sha@ack a@nd Der- bent, in the Name of the yo@@ung@ Shah, that took Refuge in @Turkey and they are ing to Tauris, which is   Sha  girt with the Sword of t@he State, and the Turks ſend a great deal of Money to  is ſaid, this made @Thamas Kouli Kan raie the Siege of @Moſul, to prevent the Coronation at Erdibil and his March was ſo precipitate, that he ﬂung his heavy Cannon into the Tygris. Extra@@ of a Letter fr@om Bru@els, January 9, N. S. The French Court is dra@wing ſuch great Numbers of Troops towards our Frontier@s, that there is not room enough for them in the @rong Towns ſo that great Part of them are obliged to Canton. Advice is come that a Detachment of French Huſ- ſars have committed Ho@ilities at Chi@mai on our Frontiers. The Government is drawing up a Circum@antial Ac- count of this A@ﬀair, in order to ſend it to Vienna, and ſome other Courts. P. S. A Report is ju@ ſpread, that a Body of French Troops have ſurrounded and taken Priſoners 300 Hu@ars, who were going to St. Hubert, in the Dutchy of Lux- embourg. LONDON. The A@ﬀair of the Ea@ Drawn Ticket in the Lottery makes a great Noiſe in Town, the Caſe being thus. On Thursday la@ Number 11,053 was drawn, at Guildhall, a Prize of 100 l.@ and as being the L@a Drawn Ticket was declared there as entitled to 1000 l. more or ſuch, and ſo was printed in the Paper of Prizes, by Order of the Com-@@ mioners. After the Wheels were carry'd from Guild- hall to Whitehall, and there open'd, a Ticket, Number 72,148, was ſound in the Wheel A@@@ and being the next Ticket a@er all the Prizes were drawn, has been declared by the Commi@@oners as entitled to the 1000 l. as the La@ Drawn Ticket. -@Quaere, Which of the Com-@ mioners Publications is to and Good, the @ﬁr@ @@@hall, or the ſecond from Whiehall@? The A@ of Parliament dire@s. that the Lottery @ſhould be publickly drawn at Guildhall  Whether a  Li@ of the Bre@ Squadrons.  the Court of France has lately given Orders for ſu@ſpending the @Works of Dunkirk and has like@wiſe taken ſome other Steps, that do not ſeem to ſpeak an Aver@on to Peace. They write from Peterſburgh, that the Empreſs has or der'd all her Forces to be compleated without delay . and has alſo declared, that in caſe the Di@ﬀerences between the Courts of Sweden and Denmark are not accommodated be- fore Spring, ſhe ſhall be obliged to a@ in ſuch a Manner as may be  for the Support of her Allies. From Dreſden they write, that Preparations are making for the Ring's Journey into Poland but that the Day of his Departure having been from time to time put o@ﬀ, it is now believed that he will not ſet out before March though it is certain, his Preſence@@ was never@ more nece@ary in that Kingdom. The ſame Letters ſay, that they have certain Intelligence fro@m War@ſaw of the @Death of Prince Lubomirſki, of a ſecond Fit of an Apoplexy, brought upon him through Grief, that a Diſpute about dancing with his Daughter ſhould create ſuch Animo@ty between Count Tario and Count Poniatowſki, as is likely t@o prove ſatal to the Peace of Poland.@ Letters from @Ghent in Flanders mention, that a@ Spotted Fever rages there, and carries o@ﬀ abundance of PeopIe, and that their Hoſpitals are quite ſull. Count Coleredo is return'd from Vienna into Italy, with Dire@ions to Prince Lobkowiz to proſecute, with- out Delay, the Scheme he has concerted w@ith his Sar- dinian Maje@y for the carrying on the War in that Country. According to Advices from Paris, his Mo Chri@ian Maj@ey declared a few Days ago, that there is to be a Congreſs, but they don't tell us how ſoon however, they begin already to talk of a Suſpen@on of Arms. The Mar- quis de Fenelon is to go back forthwith to the Hague, and reſume his former Fun@ion there. The Spaniſh Amba@a- dor at rancfort, who has been for ſo@me time pa@ at the French Court, has taken his Leave of the Mo@ Chri@ian King. The French and Spaniſh Squadrons at Toulon are not to ſet Sail till towards the End of February. A Treaty of Marriage is concluded between his Royal Highneſs William Duke of Cumberland, and her Royal Highneſs the Princeſs Louiſa of Denmark. Some Private Letters from Vienna ſay, that the Mar- quis de Botta is ſuddenly become Invi@ble. His Imperial Maj@ey has taken a Reſolution, to ere@ the Landgravate of He@@e‐Ca@el into a tenth Ela@orate. We hear that a Petition will ſoon be preſented to the Houſe of Commons by the Merchants, for a Bill to en- able them to build an Hoſpital at Poplar, for Sailors @word out or diſabled in their Serv@ice. We hear from Ireland, that the Hon. James Anne@y, Eſq having petition'd his‐Maj@ey for the Titles of Baron Alt@ham, and Viſcount Valentia, in that Kingdom, his Maje@y had referi'd the ſame to the Prime Serjeant, and Solicitor General of Ireland, to enquire into the ſame and report their Opinion and they having reported in Favour of the Petitioner, the Petition, Report, @@c. were refeir'd to the Houſe of Lords there who have adjourn'd the Con- deration@ thereof for ſome Time@@ Lord Nettervil's Trial for Murder being appointed for the 18th I@@nant. Monday an Order was i@ued out from the War‐O@@ﬃce for draughting 8000 Troops, now in England, to be ſent, with all Expedition, to Germany, to @ﬁll up the Vacancies of the Britiſh Troops abroad. The ſame Day an Order was i@ued out from the Board of Ordnance for 8000 Muſkets, with Belts, Balls, c. anſwerable, to be ſhipp'd immediately for Germany, for the Uſe of his Maje@y's Forces. The Right Hon. Henry Pelham, Eſq Fir@ Lord Com- mi@@oner of the Treaſury, c. has appointed Mr. Le Borg and Mr. Peter Clark to be Me@engers to the Trea- ſury. Sheri@ﬀs appointed for the Year enſuing@. Bedſordſhire, Richard Browne, of Eggi@nton, Eſq Berkſhire, Thomas Head, of Langley, Eſq Buckingbamſhire, Ri@ey Ri@e@y, of Chetwood, @Eſq@ Cambridge and Huntingdon, Thomas Watſon Ward,@ Eſq@ Cheſhire, Sir Peter Warburton, of Arley, Bart. Cumberland, Gerom Tullie, of Carli@e, Eſq Derbyſhire, Po@poned@. Devonſhire, Po@poned. Dorſtſhire, James Frampton, of Moreton, Eſq E@@x, Po@poned.  Thomas Snell, of Upton St. Leonard's, Eſq@ Hereſordſhire, William B@rydges, of Tiberton, Eſq Hertſordſhire, Richard Chaſe, of Much Had@ham, Eſq@ K@ent, Thomas Hodſdon, of Lewiſham, Eſq Leice@erſhire, John Ayre, Eſq Lincolnſhire, Henry Herring, Eſq Monmouthſhire, James Tudor Morgan, of Langattock Lin- goed, Eſq Norſolk, Peter Baret, of Hor@end, Eſq Northamptonſhire, George De Vall, Eſq Northumberland, Po@poned. Nottinghamſhire, Richard Brown, of Gunthorp, Eſq Oxfordſhire, Rowland Lacey, E@@ſq Rutlandſhire, Henry Shield, Eſq Shropſhire, William Tayleur, of Shrewſbury, Eſq Somerſetſhire, Edward Clark, of Chipleigh, Eſq Southampton, Edward Wor@ey, of Galcombe in the I@@e of Wight, Eſq Sta@ﬀordſhire, Thomas Webb, of Blakenell, Eſq Su@ﬀolk, Robert Lemon, ofWe@how, Eſq Surrey, Elias Bird, of Rotherhithe, Eſq Su@ex, Po@poned. Warwickſhire, Sir Theophilus Biddulph, Bart. Wiliſhire, John Walters, of Titherley, Eſq @Worce@erſhire, Po@poned. Yorkſhire, Po@poned. SOUTH‐WALES@. Brecon, Po@poned. Cardigan, Charles Gwyne, of Monachty, Eſq Carmarthen, Lewis Price, of Glanyranell, Eſq Glamorgan, Po@poned. Pembroke, William Jones, of Lether, Eſq Radnor, Po@poned. NO@RTH‐WALES. Angleſea, Richard Hughes, of Ca@ellor, Eſq Carnarvon, William Brynker the Younger, of Brynker, Eſq Denbigh, Edward Jones, of Ddole, Eſq Flint, Robert Davies, of Gwyſanney, Eſq Merioneth, William Lewis Amvyll, of Botallog, Eſq Montgomery, Thomas Foulkes,@ of Penthryn, Eſq On the 1@1th of la@ Month his Maje@y's Ship the Captain, commanded by Capt. Gri@@ﬃn, being on a Cuize, met with, and took a Spaniſh Privateer of St.  and 66 Men, call'd the St. Antonio. S
 EVENING POST@ BUSINESS GUIDE. @A LGAR, JOHN, Decorator, Sign Writer Painter, and Glazier,  Gandy-street, Exeter. B EER and DRIFFIELD, STAINED GLASS WORKS, MAKERS of ORNAMEN@@TAL LEADED GLAZING, Bartholomew street, Exeter. Special terms to builders B OON, J. E., and SON, PURVEYORS, 5, East Gate, Exeter, supplies the best quality meat at moderate prices. Families waited on daily for orders. Telephone No. 137. B ICKFORD, M., 2, Bampfylde-street, POST- ING and JOB-MASTER, FUNERAL CARRLAGE PROPRIETOR. The New Exenian Glass-pannelled Hearse. Fashion- able Wedding Carriages, Phaetons, Dog Carts, Breaks, @c@. Bedford Mews, Bed- ford-circus. C @ANN, Mrs. S., Dealer in all kinds of LADIES and GENTLEMEN'S LEFT, OFF WEARING APPAREL, c., @c., 14-The Mint, Fore-street, Exeter. Ladies waited on at their Residences in Town or Country. Post Office Orders sent im-mediately on receipt of parcels. C HUDLEY, W., LITHOGRAPHIC and COPPER-PLATE PRINTER, 11 and 12, South-street, Exeter. Relief stamping neatly executed. Trade work quickly done. D ENNEY, E. and Co., High-class PHOTO-@ GRAPHIC ARTISTS, 21, Sidwell-street, Exeter. Studio a few doors above Bon Marche, on the left hand side. Specialities Life-size Enlargements. The Photos for style, finish, and permanence are n- eq@ualled. D ORRINGTON, H., London House, High- street, Exeter, TAILOR and BREECHES MAKER, HOSIER, and HATTER. Highest class goods at lowest possible prices, School outfits. Best value in West on England. E ASTON, J. and SON, GRANITE MER- CHANTS, STATUARIES@@@ GENERAL STONE MASONS, Northernhay-street, Exeter. E DWARDS, J. K. and SON, CARVERS, GILDERS, PICTURE - FRAME and LOOKING-GLASSMANUFACTURERS, 52, South-street, Exeter. Old frames re-gilt. Drawings neatly mounted. Established 1844. E NDACOTT, G., 17, Sidwell-street, Exeter, OUTFITTER, CLOTHIER, DEALER in LADIES' and GENTLEMEN'S WARD- ROBES. A large assortment always on hand. Prompt cash given for parcels. Coun@try letters strictly attended to. Established over 50 years. F OURACRES, E. G., Established 1813, CUTLER, SURGICAL INSTRUMENT MAKER, and OPTICIAN. Cutlery ground and repairs executed on the premises daily, 2 South-street, Exeter. Price list free on application. Look at the top of leader column in Saturday's Flying Post. G ATER, A. E., 13, South-street. Exeter. @@@@Best and cheapest for China, Glass, and Earthenware. Publicans Measured Ware V.R. @H EATH, B. @@SON, GENERAL @@@BUILDERS @@@UNDERTAKERS. Work shops@-@Cheeke-street. Residence@-@St. Sidwell's Avenue. Well-street, Exeter. Estimates given. GERRED, THE CHAMPION WEST OF ENGLAND MEDICAL HERBALIST, Thrift Cottage, No. 1, New North-road. Consultations free. Established 58 years. L OCK. WM., 8 and 9 Summerland-street, Exeter, ANTIQUE FURNITURE DEALER, Bailiff under the Law of Distress Amendment Act Bookseller, House Agent. Rent and debts collected. L ISLE,  and SILVER-SMITH, 179, Fore-street, Exeter. Established 1845. An extensive and varied stock of Gold and Silver Watches and Jewellery, Clocks and Electro Plate at lowest possible prices. Speciality-genuine English Levers at £3 3s. Waterbury Watch Agent. M ORGAN'S DAIRY. Established over 100 years. Families waited on daily. Pure unmanufactured cows'@milk, cream, butter, eggs, poultry, rabbits to order, @@c., warranted. Hampers packed and sent to all parts. Address 162, Sidwell-street, Exeter. @R ALLING, JAS. F., late John A. Bowden, @@@@@@@Gas, Water, and Sanitary Engineer, Plumber, Zinc Worker, Brass Finisher, Bell Hanger, Smith, @c., 20, Magdalen- street, Exeter. Brass work of every description restored equal to new. Gas fittings. A choice assortment of modern lamps kept in stock, French Colza Oil, Alexandra, Chrystaline, and other oils of the finest quality. ENT@ON, M., CHINA, GLASS, and EARTHENWARE DEALER, 81, South- street, opposite the Catholic Church. Entirely new Stock. Large consignment of cheap and pretty Tea   Given that all Creditors@@@@@@ and other persons having a@ny claims or @demands against the estate of Jane Stainton, late of Sidbury, in the County of Devon, spinster, deceased who died on the 6th day of November, 1894,@ are requested to send particulars of their claims to us, the undersigned solicitors, for the executrix of the Will of the deceased. Dated Sidmouth, 3rd day of December, 1894. RADFORD AND ORCHARD. Solicitors for the said Executrix.  PUBLIC ROOMS, Unreserved Sale of useful Modern and Antique Furniture, comprising handsome inlaid walnut centre table, walnut drawing-room suite, walnut bureau, double-barrel gun with a new pair of spare barrels, handsome dressing case with plated fittings, console tables, pier glasses, cottage piano, musical box, chairs, tables, tricycle in good order, the Handy sewing machine, c. For further particulars see posters. The whole to be Sold by Auction by THOMPSON, RIPPON AND CO. O N Tuesday, December 11th, at 11.30 o'clock. Auction Offices, Ex@e  IDWELL-STREET.@-Commanding business premises to Let, with spacious double- fronted shop at a greatly reduced rental, and especially suitable for and presenting a good opening to draper, grocer, boot maker, c. Nent £80.-To view apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street, Exeter. £375 WILL Purchase a desirable brick-@ built Villa Residence in Pennsyl- vania, with every modern convenience and with vacant possession. Rental value £24 a year. Must be sold to close accounts. £250 can remain at 41 per cent interest@-Apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street, Exeter. T O Market Gardeners and Others.-To be sold in separate Lots, two fields of about four acres and six acres respectively within one mile of Exeter, both highly productive and fertile, warm and early, facing south and offoring capital sites for the erection of dwelling houses. -Price and particulars of Thompson, Rippon, and Co., Estate Agents, Exeter. £600. -TO be Sold at this low price, a block of six well-built Cottages in readily lettable situation, always tenanted, well drained, and in excellent repair. Rental £39 a year, tenants paying all taxes. A good investment.-Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street. BETWEEN EXETER AND DAWLISH. T O be Let from Lady-day, 1895, a charming detached Country House near Rail Church and post office, occupying a high and healthy position commanding extensive views. The house is approached by a carriage drive, and contains eight bedrooms, bath-room, drawing- room, dining-room, morning-room, well-fitted kitchens, c. There is also capital stabling, three cottages, and well laid out grounds of about two acres.-Apply Thompson. Rippon, and Co., House Agents, Gandy-street, Exeter. XETER.-A rare little investment.-For Sale in a select and healthy neighbourhood a pretty semi-detached villa with front garden, verandah, and nice walled back garden with vinery or greenhouse, and let to a good tenant at £34 a year. Price £450.-For cards to view apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., Exeter. S T. DAVID'S.-Pleasantly situate Residence to Let. No. 4, Linden Vale. Rent £28. Handy for rail and centre of city.-Apply Thompson, Rippon, and Co., 22, Gandy-street, Exeter. P ENNSYLVANIA.@-Detached Family Resi- dence to Let, containing seven bed and four reception-rooms, c. Also stabling, glass- houses, and 1½ acres of garden grounds. The house is well drained and the water supply good and ample. Rent moderate.-Orders to view of the Agents, Thompson, Rippon, and Co. S. WR@E@FOR@D AND SON ARE MAKING THEIR FIRST DISPLAY OF@ FANCY GRASSES, PLANTS, AND FLOWERS, SUITABLE FOR HOUSE AND TABLE DECORATIONS.  Imported direct from the  THE WINDOWS. S. WREFORD SON, 174, FORE-ST, EXETER.@@@@ RIPPINGILLE'S PATENT OIL WARMING STOVES. NO SMOKE! NO SMELL!! CENTRAL DRAUGHT STOVE, with Polished Brass Reservoir of large capacity, and fitted with a 50 Candle Power Albion @@Burner, giving great Light and Heat complete with Ruby@@ Globe .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 13@S.-6D. Ditto Larger Size, 100 Candle Po@wer  SUNRISE, the Cheapest and Best Stove in the Market, Cast-Iron Tank in one piece, Enamelled Black and@@ Gold Decoration everyone warranted fitted with 4½ inch @@movable Burner and Wick complete ..  RADIATORS, 1s. EACH QUART KETTLES, 10D.  @☞ A Large Stock of Rippingille's Stoves @and Lamps of every description at Lowest Prices. ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES POST FREE GRATIS . DEVON AND SOMERSET STORES, EXETER@-@AND@-@TAUNTON. @J.  IS HEREBY GIVEN, that the Transfer Books for all Stocks and Shares will be closed from the 13th December to the 20th December instant, both days inclusive. By order. A. J. HELE, Secretary. 80, Queen-street, Exeter, December 8th, 1894  AUCTION ON THURSDAY NEXT. BY  Parish of St. Leonard. THOMAS MARTIN W ILL Offer for Sale by Auction, at the Bude Hotel, @Exeter, on Thursday next, December 13th, 1894, at four o'clock p.m precisely subject to the general conditions of the Devon and Exeter Law Association, and to certain special conditions, all of which will be produced at the Sale, and may be inspected at the offices of the under-mentioned solicitor , all that Freehold Family Residence, situate known as No. 3, Won- ford-road, Mount Radford, as previously adver- tised. Further partitulars of Mr. C@ T. K. Roberts, Solicitor. 10, Bedford-circua, Exeter or, with cards ro view, of the Auctioneer, 16, Bedford- circus, Exeter.Sets. MONDAY'S ENGAGEMENTS. Exeter Police Court, 11. Plymouth Police Court, 11. Torquay Police Court, 11 Topsham School Board, 11. Exmouth Sessions. C@rediton Improvement Commissioners. West Habitation of the Primrose League-Entertainment Public Rooms. Theatre Royal- At Duty's Call.  7, at 3, Beaufort-road, St.  Thomas, the wife of F. Chrichard, a daughter. ELLIS-Dec 6, at Okeha@mpton-road, St. Thomas. Exeter, the wife of J. H. Ellis, a son. PO@TTER-Nov 27, at Cullompton, the wife of John Hope Potter, a son. PRENTICE-Nov 29, at Finnart-street, Greenock, the wife of A. R. Prentice, a son. MATTHEWS-Dec 2, at 26, East-street, Newton Abbot, the wife of Mr. S. Matthews, a son. MICH@ELL-Dec 5, at 28. Cottage-grove, Bow, London, E., the wife of George J. Michell, a son. RICHARDS-Dec 2, at Reedy, Dunsford, the wife of Mr. W. Richards, a daughter. YEO-Dec 1, at Instow, the wife of H. Yeo, a son stillborn . MARRIAGE.  3, at Talaton, Vine, of Stockland, to Agnes  DEATHS. B@RYANT-Dec 3, at 57, Paul-street, Exeter, Samuel Bryant, aged 65. COLE-Dec 3, at Derriton, Pywerthy, Mr. Thomas Cole,  7, at Okehurst. St. Leo@nard's- road, Exeter, Eliza, widow of W. J. Smith Hooper, and relict of Stephen Goodenoug@h, of Henstrete House, Whimple. HUCKER-@@@Dec 5, at East-street, Okehampton, Mr. Thomas Hucker, aged 62. MADDOCK-Dec 7, at Broadclyst, Agatha Mary, eldest child of James Maddock, aged 1 year 9 months. PEARSE-Dec 6, at Topsham, Captain Henry Pearse, aged 77. RISDON-Dec 4, at 73, Hoopern-street, Exeter, Samuel Risdon, aged 2½. SHORE-Dec 6, at Frogmore-Far@m, Broadclyst, Mr. George Shore, aged 44. WHEATON-Dec 6, at Heavit@ree, John, second so@n of the late Peter Wheaton, aged 52. @@T HE Old Established Firm, late Lucombe@@ Pince, and Co., no@w the Exeter Nursery Company, Exeter, are offering Wreaths, Crosses, Bridal Bouquets, and choice boxes of Cut Blooms, from 7s 6d each, for waick they have gained so many prizes and test@imonials by the present designers. L EACH, @E., Market-street, Livery Stable, Exeter posting in all its branches funerals conducted in any part of the country. Fashion- able wedding carnages, broughams, dog carts, hacks, @@c@, let@ on hire by the week, month, or year. Telephone No.@123. Kalamazoo Specific Pills, 2s 9d per bottle. Univer@sally acknowledged the most @effectual remedy for all affections of the urinary organs. @@Post free@ for 36 stamps.-Dep@ôt for England. Stone and Son, Chemists, Exeter. Towle's Pernyroyal and Steel Pills for Females quickly correct all irregularities, remove all obstructions, and relieve the distressing symptoms so prevalent with the sax. Boxes 1s 1½d and 2s 9d the latter con- thins three times the quantity of all chemists. Sent anywhere on receipt of 15 or 34 stamps by the maker, E. T. Towle, Chemist, Nottingham Beware of Imitations, injurious and worthless. Important to Ladies.-Valuable and never failing remedies for all irregularities and obstructions, however obstinate or long standing, and never fails to bring about the desired result. These really wonderful medicines are without parallel in medical science they pre- serve health, and have saved thousands trouble,  expense heaps of unsolicited testimonial@s-Send at once stamped envelope for@@ most invaluable particulars. The only effectual @@remedy on earth A. Dasmail, 232, Langdalele @W 851. AUCTION ON MONDAY. ☜ PARSONAGE STILE Close to Railway Station . LYMPSTONE. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions from Mrs. Adcock, who is changing her residence, to Sell by Auction on Monday, December 10th, a quantity of Household Furniture. Japanese Antique Cabinet. Wheeler and Wilson Treadle Sewing Machine. Invalid's Wheel Chair, and miscellaneous Effects, more fully described in posters. On view at 11.30. Auction at 1.30 p.m. ☞ AUCTION ON TUESDAY. REGENT-STREET, ST. THOMAS. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions to Sell by Auction at the Swan Inn, Cowick-street, on Tuesday, 11th December, 1894, at Four o'Clock in the afternoon, subject to the conditions which will then be produced and read, all those two well- built, convenient, and commodious Dwelling Houses, with ample Domestic Offices and Garden behind, being Nos. 7 and 8, Regent-street, in the parish of Saint Thomas, in the occupation of Messrs. Day and Heard respectively. For viewing, apply to the respective tenants, and for further particulars to the Auc- tioneer, Maddock's-row, Exeter or to Mr. ORCHARD, Solicitor, Castle-street, Exeter.  regards 41 per Cent. Preference Shares and Debenture Stocks, will be CLOSED on SATURDAY, the 15th inst., and will not be Re-opened until the 1st January, 1895. EDWARD BUSH. Chairman. ALFRED J. ALEXANDER. Secretary and General Manager, Water Works Office, Small-street, Dec. 7th, 1894. EXETER. T HE Guardians of the Poor of this City hereby invite Tenders for the Supply of Good Fine Fl@our a@@nd Butcher's Meat from the 29th December instant to the 30th March next. Payments will be made monthly. Tenders on forms to be had at the Office in Castle-street, to be sent to me on or before Mon- day, the 17th instant. The G@uardians do not bind themselves to accept the lowest or any Tender. ALBERT FOOTE, Clerk to the Guardians. 7th December, 1894. DEVON COUNTY LUNATIC ASYLUM. T ENDERS are required for SUPPLYINGthe DEVON LUNATIC ASYLUM with the best OX and HEIFER BEEF best EWE and WETHER MUTTON, PORK, FLOUR, and COALS from the 1st day of January, 1895, to to the 31st day of March, 1895. Also for SUPPLYING the UNDERMEN- TIONED ARTICLES, in such quantities as may be required, from the 1st day of January, 1895, to the 30th day of June, 1895, viz. -ALE, WINES, SPIRITS, DRAPERY, WATER- PROOF SHEETING, MAKING UNIFORMS, EARTHENWARE and @GLASS, PRINTING, STATIONERY, and TIMBER. Payments for the meat, flour, and coal will be made monthly. Samples for some of the articles may be seen at the Asylum, and further particulars obtained of the Clerk between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Saturdays 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. They must be delivered free of expense, and will be returned by the officers of the Asylum if their quality is not according to the contract. Tenders, on forms, to be obtained of the Clerk, are to be signed, sealed, and delivered at the Asylum on or before THURSDAY, the 20th day of December instant, and to be endorsed on the outside, Tenders for Provisions, @@c., or as the case may be. All accounts must be punctually sent to me at and up to the following dates, viz. -March 31st, June 30th. September 30th, December 31st otherwise they will not be paid until the follow- ing quarter. No goods will be received without an invoice. The Committee do not pledge themselves to accept the lowest or any Tender. FREDERICK SANDERS, Clerk. December, 1894. DE@VON AND EXETER HOSPITAL, EXETER. D ONATIONS towards the BUILDINGING FUND -£ s. d. A@mount already advertised...... 3,697 15 0 Bishop of  10 0 A. G. Ferrers Howell,  0 £3,713 10 0 Further Donations are earnestly solicited, and may be paid at the Exeter Bank, or sent to ALBERT E. BOYCE, Secretary.  DAVID'S WARD, No. 2.  have been strongly urged by  the St. Sid@well's portion of @y allow ourselves to be nominated as Candidate to represent you on the new Board of Guardians and to this invitation we readily assent. If elected, our earnest endeavours will be devoted to the best interests and comfort of the poor people who are unfortunate  to seek refuge in the Workhouse, or who other wise require the assistance of the @Poor Law Authorities at the same time we  be ever mindful of the true interests or the Ratepayers. @@@We have the honour to remain, Your obedient Serva@nts, H. L. BREWSTER. Wrentham, Old Tiverton-road@ SIDNEY HERBERT, 39, Sidwell-str@eet@ CORNELIUS KERSLAKE,@@ 71,  THE ELECTORS OF  ST. DAVID'S. @@LADI@ES AND GENTLEMENT,-H   the Guardians of the Poor for this  native City, I ask you to ratify that  Should you do me the  to my  whom I have always lived. I rejoice that the time has come  new Local Government Acts, Boards of Guardians will be more representative bodies. This is as essential for those who  to seek assistance as for the  a Journalist, I have during  attended the various Boards of  the County. From the experience  am strongly of opinion @that there should@ be an extension of Out-relief, and of the Boarding-out System, believing that only in exceptional cases should the homes of the poor and aged, or those temporarily incapacitated, be broken up, and the House offered when there is no other alter- native. I am entirely in accord with the proposal for Old Age Pensions, believing that such a scheme would, while encouraging habits of thrift, instil a sense of self-respect. As an Economist, I shall be mindful of the interests of the Ratepayers, but as a Guardian my first duty will be to  Trusting to be honoured with  am, your obedient servant. CHARLES PIPER. 6, Old Tiverton-road, Exeter, 5th  KENSINGTON, LONDON, S.W. INCORPORATED BY ROYAL C@HARTER, 1883. President @@H.R.H. The Prince of Wales, K.G. Director Sir George Grove. C.B.,D.C.L.,LL.D. Honorary Secretary Charles Morley,  GOLD AND SILVERSMITH, DIAMOND MERCHANT, AND DEALER IN ANTIQUE PLATE. 17 18, HIGH-STREET, EXETER, @IS NOW SHEWING A SPECIALLY-SELECTED STOCK O@F NOVELTIES SUITABLE FOR CHRISTMAS NEW YEAR'S PRESENT@S IN WATCHES, JEWELRY, CLOCKS, ELECTRO-PLATE, NEW @@@SECOND-HAND SILVER PLATE. SELECTION OF ARTICLES FORWARDED ON APPROVAL FREE OF CHARGE.  EARLY CLOSING DAY, SATURDAY ONLY, 2 O'CLOCK. @@ SURPLUS HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE AND EFFECTS. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions from Mrs. Pendray, who has left Exeter, to Sell by Auction on Wednesday, December 12th, the surplus Household Furniture, bedroom, dining, and drawing-room appointments, drawing-room suite, invalid's chair-bed, perambulator, lawn- mower, @@c., as described in posters. On view at 10. Auction at 12. ☞  HIGH STREET. NICELY PICKLED OX TONGUES, SILVER-SIDES, AND BRISKETS ALWAYS READY THE BEST IS CHEAPEST. TELEPHONE No.CLOCK. DEVON OX-BEEF AND WETHER MUTTON  IS INVARIABLY SUPPLIED, AT LO@@WEST POSSIBLE PRICES, BY N OTICE is Hereby Given, That Preliminary Examinations for Twelve Free Scholar- ships will be held on the 30th January, 1895, in various local centres throughout the United Kingdom. Those Candidates only who may be selected at these Preliminary Examinations will be allowed to attend the Final Competition for the Scholar- ships before the Director and Board of Pro- fessors, at the College in London, on or about February 22nd. Forms of Application for these Scholarships may be obtained from the Registrar of the Col- lege. No such application can be entertained if received after 5th @January, 1895. In every case a Registrar's Certificate of Birth must accom- pany the application form. The Scholarships will be allotted as follows -Composition, 1 Si@nging preference given to Soprano and Tenor , 3 Pianoforte males pre- ferred , 2 Organ, 1 @Violin male preferred , 1 Violoncello male only , 1 Flute male only , 1 Clarionet male only , 1 Horn male only , 1. By order. GEO. R. SHORTO, Town Clerk. Exeter, 5th December, 1894. HATTON'S PECTROAL ESSENCE.  SUCCEEDED BY MAKING HIS CUSTOMERS' INTERESTS HIS FIRST CONSIDERATION. If you are not already dealing with us, @WILL YOU STUDY YOUR OWN INTEREST BY BUYING A TRIAL  EXETER. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S instructed to Sell by Auction at the Corn Exchange Hotel, Market-street, Exeter, on Wednesday, December 12th, 1894, at four o'clock in the afternoon subject to the conditions  which will then be produced and read , all that  House and Premises, Shop, Bake- @@@@@@house, and Stores, being No. 58,  the City of Exeter. For viewing apply to Mr. Howard, on the premises and for further particulars to the Auctioneer, Maddock's-row to Mr. Steer,er, Secretary Freehold Land Society, Upper Paul-@@ street or to Messrs. PETHERICH and Sons, Solicitors, Southernhay, Exeter. Our Business is Conducted Strictly on the Wholesale Principle. Therefore Customers Get a SINGLE CAKE AT WHOLESALE PRICE. It proves that we supply the VERY BEST VALUE IN CAKE. It proves, indeed, that ADAMS ha @@fully justified the Motto on his Original Trade Mark- Best Value for Least Money.  PARK, EXETER. MR. E. T. FULFORD I S favoured with instructions from th@e Owners who is leaving Exeter, to Sell, by Auction, without reserve, on Thursday, December 13th, the Household Furniture and @Effects on the above Premises, including mahogany wardrobe, with plate-glass panel, drawing-room suite, mahogany dining table, bureau secretaire, and@@ the usual appointments. On view at Ten. Auction at Twelve. VICTORIA HALL, EXETER. TO CARRIAGE PROPRIETORS, HARNESS MAKERS, SADDLERS, SPORTSMEN, AND OTHERS. SCOTT-SMITH AND CO. W ILL Sell by Auction, without reserve, on Tuesday next the follow@ing new and second hand Stock of a Saddler and Harness Maker, which has been removed to this Hall for con- venience of Sale -Twelve ladies's and gentle- men's pig skin saddles, brass and silver mounted@ harness, cart saddles and breechings, Pelham@ and snaffle bridles, brass@-@mounted and other head collars, two cab saddles fitted with turretts and belly bands patent leather gig collars, gig dealers, and jockey whips, hunting crops and lashes, nickel-Liver- pool and other bits, racing and hunting spurs, martingales, cart saddles, fawn and fate rugs, waterproof loin covers, rollers, leg- gings, dog collars, knee caps, dandy, spoke, and water brushes, curry combs, web halter, h@arness paste, waterproof carriage, aprons, and other like appliances. On view morning of Sale from  2, when the Sale will commence. Estate Agency Oe, 10,@  not have created this Mighty Business in so short a time. The cver-growing Orders of our Customers compel us to be constantly Enlarging our Operations. @We do not ask you to take any of our Statements on Trust, but we do Invite your attention to over SPLENDID ASSORTMENT OF CAKE@S IN @@EXETER, Friday and Saturday, and all the Principal Markets in Devon and@ Somerset. H. DA@VEY'S,  WELL -  @RON BRIDGE   @ONE CABINET@ THREE  FOR 2 - THREE CARTES-DE-VISITE ... FOR 1 - L @DRESS @ASSOCIATION, 17,  Supply Gowns made to order at the shortest notice, perfect Fit and Style Moderate Charge@, Wedding and Mourning Orders receiving special and prompt attention.@@@@ Estimates given Inspection in@vited. @@JAMES H. BARTLETT, @HOUSE AND ESTATE AGENT, 160, SIDWELL-STREET, EXETER. RENTS AND ACCOUNTS COL@LE@C@TED @@@@JAMES KNILL AND  @BROKERS, ACCOUNTANTS @@AUDITORS BEDFORD CIRCUS, EXETER THE U NION BANK OF AUSTRALIA shed 1837. Incorporated 1889. Paid-up   Letters of Credit and Bills on Demand are gra@nted on the Bank's Liabilities throughout the Colonies of Australia, New Zealand, and @Fiji. Telegraphic remittances are @@made to the Colonies. Bills on the Colonies are negotiated and sent@ for @@ Deposit@s are received for fixed periods ch may be ascertained on application. @@W.  r.  HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S HATTON'S  INFLUENZA, AND BRONCHITIS. ASK FOR AND SEE THAT YOU GET IT!@! SOLD IN BOTTLES 1 - 1 9 2 6 @@@4 6 EACH. SOLE CONSIGNEES FOR GREAT BRITAIN   ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCE ESSENCES W. MORTIMER AND SON, STOCK AND @SHARE @B EXETER. @IST, DECEMBER 8,  OF GUARDIANS,  requested to allow  as representatives on the Boar@d @of Guardians a post we have filled for some years past . In accepting that position, we do  that our past conduct on the Board has commended itself to your judgment. If agai@n elected, nothing shall be wanting on our part in faithfully carrying out the spirit of the Act-in seeing that the deserving poor are properly pro- vided for, at the same time carefully guarding the Ratepayers' interest. We would wish to draw your attention to the nomination of Mrs. Chorley, who has been nominated for this Ward, by the Committee for promoting the Election of Women Guardians, and to ask those who wish to Vote for us to also Vote for Mrs. Chorley. We beg to remain, Your faithful servants, JOHN R. E. BALKWILL, THOMAS REED. 6th December, 1894. RURAL DISTRICT OF ST. THOMAS. TO THE ELECTORS OF THE PARISH OF HEAVITREE.  HAVE been invited by a large number of my fellow parishioners@ to allow myself to be nominated to represent you upo@n  Dis- trict Council@ and in consenting I beg to solicit the favour of your vote and interest. I have represented you for several years upon the Board of Guardians, and you will be able to judge of my attention to the duties which have devolved upon me from t@he Official List of Attendances at the Board Meetings, which has just been published in the Press. It has always been my endeavour to wat@ch over the interests of the Ratepayers, and to advocate a liberal treatment of the claims of all deserving poor and should you do me the honour of electing me again as one of your Representatives it will still be my desire to do all I can i@n the best interests of the Ratepayers of all classes, and of the Parish of Heavitree generally. I remain, your obedient servant, Melrose, Heavitree. J. @SAMPSON. TO THE ELECTORS OF THE WITHYCOMBE URBAN WARD.  T the request of the Committee and a large number of Ratepayers, I have consented to be nominated as one of your Representatives on the District Council. Should you do me the honour to elect me, I will endeavour to study the interest of the ratepayers and the town, h@aving regard to efficiency as well as economy. I am, Ladies and Gentlemen, Your obedient Servant. A. GREENAWAY. Dated November 17th.  THE ELECTORS OF THE LITTLEHAM URBAN WARD.  T the earnest request of a large number of Ratepayers, I have consented to come for- ward at a candidate for the District Council of Exmouth. I am of opinion that all large local interests should have a representative on that Board. At the same time I think it most desirable that there should be several independent me@@mbers with no individual interest t@o serve, except the welfare of the District and its  think proper to elect me, I will  do everything in my power for the benefit of all the inhabitants of the pretty town in which I have the pleasure to reside. I am, Ladies and Gentlemen, Faithfully yours, RICHARD LEY, Duncroft, Exmout@h, Nov. 10th, 1894. TO THE ELECTORS OF T@HE LITTLEHAM URBAN WARD.  HAVE the pleasure to offer myself as a Can- didate for the New District Council. During the period that I have been a member of the Exmouth Local Board of Health. I have conscientiously endeavoured to promote the best interests and progress of Exmouth with c@areful economy, and if you confer on me the honour of electing me to the District Council I shall still continue the same policy@@@@. I would remind you that we must go forward in Sanitary and other desirable improvements, thus attracting Residents and Visitors  This desired end will prove of immense benefit to all classes of the community. I am, Ladies and Gentlemen, Your  Relle-street, Exmouth, November 14th, 
 Ne@wgate‐street, wine‐merchants.-Jan. 28. C. Perkins, Swansea, shopkeeper.-Feb. 16. J. @@Seagoe@,@ @Duke‐Street, St. James's, taylor.-Feb. 4. R. Grange, York‐place, Portman‐square, miller. CERTIFICATES-JAN. 14. D. Mendes, H@arrow‐street, Gravel‐lane, @@ army er.@-C. Baker, Saville‐place, Lambeth, ﬂour‐factor.-F@. Head, Bury‐St.‐Edmund's, baker.-T. Doyle, Threadneedle‐street, merchant.-R. Wilkinson, Manchester, @John Wright, Hammersmith, cheese‐monger.-@J@. Rutter. Ormskirk, innkeeper.-J. Sharpe, Market‐Deepings Lincoln, linen‐draper.-@W. Mortimer, @Wivenhoe,  @Dennington, jun. Lo@ddon, Norfolk, merchant.-J. A. A. Leach, Jewry‐street, Aldgate, @w Sander@, Abchur@ch‐lane, vintner, J. Smith, Great Trinity‐lane, @@merchant@@. PRICE OF STOCKS YESTERDAY. 3 per Cent. Red. 65 ⅝ ¾. Omnium 1¼ dis. Consols for Op.@ 66¾. On the @@2d of January, a  be printed, for these of Readers of London Newspapers in the Country. It will, of course, @@contain all the  and the latest In- telligence up to the evening of  PAGE, are in pre- paration, which will be presented gratis to every Sub- scriber who wishes to bind up the Papers of the Year. The Letter of AN ARTIST will appear next Sunday. Other Communications are merely delayed for want of room.  @@ORDERED A PROSECUTION to be commenced against the EXAMINER for its Strictures on Major HOGAN'S Pamphlet, an ADDRESS TO THE PUB- LIC on the Subject will appear on Sunday next. THE EXAMINER.  are no recent accounts whatever from Spain, and the only intelligence, that has been received this @week@@@ the con@ﬁrmation of the defeat of CASTANOS by his own detail.@ Thirty@ thousand troops are re- ported to @be under orders for foreign service, and the Gov@ernment, it is said, are buying up transports at a@ny price. A stand therefore is to be made in @Portugal, whether to any purpose or not our readers may well@ judge, who have seen Spain conquered, notwithstanding all its pride and patriotism, and who, if we may at all judge from past events, will see Portugal conquered too, notwithstanding all the pride @of o@ur h@eroes and the patriotism of our Commanders i@n Chief. I think it is pretty evident in the @ﬁrst place,@@ that the native Portuguese are not a jot better@ dis-@ posed to the soldiers of one nation than to those of@@ another, unless indeed heresy makes some di@ﬀerence and in the second, it has not been, by any means proved that they are not absolutely inimical to the restoration of the Prince Regent so that Portugal will most probably become a mere seat of war, that is, if we really do@ @ﬁght there, or, what is the same thin@g, quarter some of our troops at Cintra for a month or so. In the mean time, a General Fast and humiliation for sin have been ordered by the Go- vernment to further the great cause. Fasts are certainly excellent t@hings, especially in such a luxu- rious country as this, and I reverence their utility , but the Spaniards fast almost every other day in the year, and I a@m afraid that if we do nothing besides fasting, we shall kill more @ﬁsh than Frenchmen. The humiliation for our sins is @indeed@ a serious and ser- viceable duty, if we really do feel humble on the occasion if the preyers upon their country do for once in their lives feel ashamed before their Creator and I trust, that the corruptions of the political and military systems, with the authors of those corruptions, will not be forgotten in the prayers to the God of Armies. The President of the United States has o@ﬀered to this country and to France, that he will revoke the embargo in favo@ur of either nation, if it will revoke on its own part its orders against neutrals, and that on the other hand, he will continue it against either one or both of them@, as they act accordingly. This impartial and manly proceeding @has been treated with silence by our enemy , and with a querulous want of dignity by ourselves, and has of course made consider- able noise among the monied people, though nothing has arisen from it but a con@ﬁrmation of the philo- sophic policy of  The President has been accused of partiality to BONAPARTE  there is a strain o@f political liberty and independence throughout his Declaration, which perhaps @has not only touched@ the temper of  @@@made some other great personages feel a little un- comforta@ble. There is@ a@ rumoured of change of@ Administration in favour of a Noble Lord, whose opinions are said to be in dire@ @opposition to@ those@ of@ the present con- ductors of a@ﬀairs. If such a Noble Lord can be found, or I should rather say, if such a Noble Lord can get @interest enough for@ the change, his opinions not only seem in a fair way of being correct, but of doing something for the, it is said, is goi@ng to Portugal again. Will he retain his si@tuation of Chief Secretary for Ireland ? If so, it will b@e a proof that the place is not a necessary one, and that the great expence should be saved to the public. An Embargo has been found necessary, in India, to preserve the trade from@@@@ depredations of two fri- gates and a privateer of 16 guns. Great as not quite 1200 vessels of wa
 W@m. Long, John Acton, Philip Ulrick, W@m. Wake@ﬁeld, Richard Lock, W@m. J. Bro@wn, John  Benjamin Pool, marine. Killed  Nicholas Hardinge, Esq. Captain John Beer, John Burn, seamen Evan Jones,@ marine.@@ Wounded on the 8@th.-Henry George Moysey, Lieu- tenant, severely Thos. Gadsby, carpenter's mate, ditto Thos. Clerk, seaman John M. Ewen, corporal of ma- rines @@Charles Richards, marine@@ Wm. Pope, marine, since dead Henry Thorn, boatswain's mate,@ slightly @@W@m. Davis, George Anger, seamen. Downing‐street, Dec. 20 His Majesty was pleased, by a Commission bearing date the @11th of February last, to appoint Lieu@.‐Gen. Sir J. Stuart, K. B. to be Commander of his Majesty's Forces in the Mediterranean the Garrison of Gibraltar ex- cepted. BANKRUPTCY SUPERSEDED. J. Bell, Sout@hwood‐lane, Middlesex, underwriter. BANKRUPTS. T. Compere, St. Alban's, Hertfordshire, grocer, to sur- render Dec. 27, 11, Jan. 31, at eleven,@ at Guildhall, London. Attornies, Messrs. Barl@ow and Hope, Stone- buildings, Lincoln's‐Inn. J. Burnes, @Liverpool, tailor, Jan. 23, 24, 31, at eleven, at the Globe Tavern, Liverpool. Attorney@, @Mr. Pen- nington, Liverpool. J. Bell, Liverpool, master mariner, Jan. 11, 12, 31, at eleven, at the Globe Taver@n, Liverpool. Attornies, Messrs. Gri@@ﬃths and @Hinde, Liverpool. Wm. Young, Ardwich, dealer, Dec. 24, Jan. 4, 31, at @@two, at the Palace Inn, Manchester. Attorney, Mr. Law, Manchester.@@ W. Boddy, Scarborough, common‐brewer, Jan. 17, 18, 31, at eleven, at the George Inn, Scarborough. Attorney, Mr. Lister, Scarborough@@. S. T@oop, Chadderton, Prestwich,@ Lancashire, manuf@ac- turer, Dec. 23, Jan. 5, 31, at the Dog, Tavern, Man- chester. Attornies, Messrs. Johnson and Bailey,@ Man-  Hargreaves, Manchester, brick‐maker, Dec. 30, Jan. 5, 31, at three, at the Commercial Inn, Manchester. Attorney, Mr. Hewitt, Manchester. S. Swine, Halifax, merchant, Jan. 2, 3, 23, at ten, at the Talbot Inn, Halifax. Attorney, Mr. Edwards, Halifax. DIVIDENDS. Jan. 14. J. Wickens, Sandhurst, Kent, grocer.-Jan. 10. H. R. and W. Mure, Fenchurch‐street, merchants.@@ -Jan. 27. G. Richards, Gough‐s@quare, furrier.-Jan. 14. J. C. Hayward, @Cha@mbers‐street, Good@man's‐ﬁelds, purser.-Jan. 19. J. Neale and P. Tanner, Cockburn-@ hill, Ratcliff, dealers.-Jan. 24. T. Musson, Hulme, Lancashire, cotton‐spinner.-@Jan. @16. G. A.@ Child, Bristol, scrivener.-Jan. 1@8. E. Coats, T. Massey, and J. Hall, Horninglow, , 16. J. Whitaker, sen. W. Whitaker,@ Stockport, and J. W@hitaker, jun. Edgeley, Chester, cotto@n‐ma@nufacturers. @@Jan. 14. W. Partridge, Exeter, serge‐maker.-@Jan. 13. R. Je@ﬀerson and W. Dickenson, Kingston‐upon- Hall, woollen‐drapers.-Jan. 17. T. Mitchell, New- ca@stle‐upon‐Tyne, linen‐draper.-Jan. 21. S. Denham, Bermondsey‐street, Southwark, taylor.-Ja@n. 31. T. Winterbourn, Aldersgate‐street, cabinet‐maker.-Jan. 1@7. E. Johnson, Bleedingheart‐yard, Charles‐street, Hatton‐garden, cabinet‐maker.-Jan. 21. H. Hart, Great Coram‐street, Bru@ns@@wick‐square, broker.-@J@an. 17. @T. Gardner, S@horeditch, haberdasher.-Jan. 28. A. Johnstone and J. Nainby, Finch‐lane, perfumers.-Jan. 21. G. Blunt and J. Mount, Little Carter‐lane, Doctor's Commons, whol@esale grocers.-Jan. 21. @ch‐street, merchant.-Ja@n. 28. J. Waybran and J. Gerrard, Swan‐street, M@inories, cornfactors.-Jan. 11. W. Clark, Hy@the, taylor. 10 J. Bell, Trowbridge, Wilts, clothier.-T. Stretch, Graf- ton‐street, grocer.-J. Henriques, Aldgate High‐street, merchant.-J. G. Caslake, White‐ Horse‐street, Step- ney,  LONDON GAZETT@E. This Gazette contains a Proclamation for a General Fast -in England on the 8th of February, and in Scot- land, on the the following day. BANKRUPTCIES SUPERSEDED. R. Thompson, Breneepeth‐Parks, Durham, dealer.@-R. Parsons, Lyncombe and Widco@mbe, Somersetshire, grocer.-J. Whitehead, Kingston‐upon‐Hull, grocer. BANKRUPTS. W. Wilkes, Birmingham, malster, to surrender, Jan. 9, 10, Feb. 4, at @twelve, at the Swan Tavern, Briming- ham. Attorney, Mr. S. Low, Birmingham. G. Jones, Liverpool, bookseller and stationer, Jan. 13, 14, Feb. 4, at twelve, at the Star and Garter, Liver- pool. Attorney, Mr. J. Munou, Liverpool. J. J. Howard, Pimlico, Middlesex, surgeon and apo- thecary, Dec. 31, Jan. 1@0, at ten, Feb. 4, at Guild- hall. Attorney, Mr. Rich, Ratel J. Green, Hackney, Middlesex, builder and bricklayer, Dec. 31, Jan. 3, Feb. 4, at Guildhall. Attorney, Mr. Chapman, St. Mildred's‐court, Poultry. @W. Wells, Queen‐street, Bloomsbury, @working‐jeweller, Dec. 31, Jan. 7, Feb. 4, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs. Edwards a@nd Lyo@n, Great Russel‐street. J. Crawford, Hoxton, Middlesex, money‐scrive@ner, Dec. 27, at eleven, Jan. 7, Feb. 4, at one, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs. Basset, Bennet‐street, Blackfriars. M. French, George‐street, Port@man‐square, wine‐mer- chant, Dec. 27, at one, Jan. 5, at ten, Feb. 4, at one, at Guildhall. Attorney, Mr. Hackett, Chancery- lane. W. Chambers, Lincoln, currier, Jan. 9, 10, Feb. 4, at eleven, at the Rein Deer Inn, Lincoln. Attorney, Mr. Elgie, Lincoln. W. Hayes, Kilburn, Middlesex brick‐marker, Dec. 27, Ja@n. 10, Feb. 4, at ten, at Guildhall, London. Attor- ney, Mr. Humphries,@ Clement's‐Inn. J. Mansall, G. Burkinshaw, and J. Fielding, She@@ﬃeld, saw and edgetool manufacturers, Jan. 5, 6, Feb. 4, at twelve, at the Angel Inn,She@@ﬃeld. Attornies, Messrs. @@Rimington and Wake, She@@ﬃeld. G. Laing, London, merchant, De@c. 31, Jan. 7, Feb. 4, at twelve, at Guildhall. Attornies, Messrs. Caton and Brumell, Aldersgate‐street. DIVIDENDS. Jan. 7. T. Leach, Gr@aces‐lley, Wellclose‐square, haber- dasher.@-Jan. 20. B. Wright, Birmingham, factor.-@@Jan. 16. J. Endall, Over Norton, Oxfordshire, car- rier.-Jan. 18. J. Owen, Earith, Huntingdonshire, victualler.-Jan. 16. J. Anstic, Devizes, Wiltshire, clothier.-Jan. 25. P. Napper, Bristol, haberdasher -Jan. 19. S. King, @Halesworth, Suffolk, merchant.-Jan. 16. H. Chambers, Borough of Warwick, War- wickshire, i@nnkeeper.-Jan. @18. S. Smith, Liverpool, merchant.-Dec. 31. C. Smith, Bath, corn‐factor.-Feb. 7. R. Sharp, Upton‐place, Stratford, Essex, car- penter.-Jan. 18. R. Core, Bristol hat‐manufacturer. -Jan. 23. T. Top@ham, Manchester, merchant.-Feb. 4. P. Sintzenich, New Bond‐street, printsller.-Jan. 17. G. Du@@ﬃeld, York‐buildings, Bermondsey New- road, Wool‐carder.-Jan. 21. H. G. Beetson, Gray's Inn‐square, money‐scrivener.-Jan. 28. R. Drake a
iſcover the Villain. The Soldier was immediately taken Care of, and his Leg was Ye@erday cut o@ﬀ, and 'tis hop'd he will do v@ery well. It is thought ſome Villains had a De@gn to have ſet Fire to the Magazine of Powder, in order to blow it up. Three of the Soldiers which are quarter'd in Greenwich, were taken up the next Day on Suſpicion. Ye@erday the Lords of the Admiralty commi@@on'd the ſollowing Ships, viz. The Ha@mpton-Court, of 70 Guns, Capt Mo@yn. The Su@ﬀolk, of 70 Guns, Capt. Stuart. The Sunderland, of 50 Guns, Capt. Brett. The Win- che@er, or 50 Guns, Capt. Martin. The Shoreham, of 2@4 Guns, Capt. Hanway. And a new Sloop, Archibald Stuart. A Bill is order'd into Parliament for making it High Tr@@eaſon to hold any Correſpondence with the Son of the Pretender to his Maje@y's Crown. In the Bill lately paſs'd for the more ſpeedy and e@ﬀec- tual recruiting his Maje@y's Land Forces and Marines, there is a Clauſe that every Perſon who enters voluntarily, ſhall receive Four Pounds as a Gratuity, and be at Liber- ty, if he does not like the Service, to quit it at the Ex- piration of three Years. We hear the Lords of the Admiralty have ordered all the ſmall Ve@els built to prevent Smuggling and running of Wool, to be fully mann'd, and co@mpleatly @tted for Channel Service in Que@ of ſuch nall Privateers as in the lait French War lav continually upon the Engliſh Co@a, under the Land, to ſurprize and intercept our Homeward, and often our Outward bound Merchant Ships and that all Tenders on his M@aj@ey's Ships of War, are to be fully mann'd and Cruize until the ſaid Men of War are ordered to anocher Station. Extra@ of a Letter from Carthagera in Old Spain,  5@. @N to 4000 Men. The King of the to @Sicilie@s has publiſhed a nife@o containing Reaſons  t@he Spaniards under his Prote@ion, andr his oppo@ng the Enterprizes of the Au@rians in ca@they enter his Kingdom. @Tis a@ﬀured thatrince Lobkowitz has put the Abruz- zo under a Contriltion of  a Month. L@O@ES. Hague, April 6@ @is, that the Prince of Conti hadp@aed  and taken to  Other Ler- ters mention the Nice having ſent the Keys of their Townto D  t@hat the @@ Po@ the King of Satinia  intend to maintain again@ the French ad  Let- ters from Rome of h@@ Advice of their Sicilian M@aje@ies  @ the Queen being retired to Gaeta †, @me the  go@ne to put himſelf at the Head of his Troops, which, according to other Ad- vices, did a@ually jdn thoſe or@@ de Gages at Chiei, behind the Peſcaro, on the 24th@ the States General @berated on Mr. Tre- vor's @la Memorial. Some Provinces  ſented to it, and t@he  of  is forthwith ex pe@ed. W@ were drived there from Rome, importing, that the Pretender was preparing to ſet out ſor France with all his Houſhold.@@ Let  from Paris ſay, that the King of Spain is again very m@uch indiſpoſed.@@ The Lords of the Admiralty have order'd 10,000 Bar- rels of Beef and Pork, be@des dry Provi@ons, and a large @Quantity of Naval Stores, to be got ready forth- with, for the Fleet de@gn'd for Channel Service, which, it is ſaid, will c@@@on of 26 Sail of Ships, 15 of whom will be of the Line, and under the Command of a bra@ve and experienced Admiral, who has more than once @gna- liz'd himſelf in the Defence of his Country.@@ Since the Commencement of the War with France, it is remarkable that no Tea ha been ſeiz'd, which has rais'd the Price of that Commodity 2@5. in the Pound from whence we conclude that the Smuggling Trade was carry'd on chie@ﬂy by the French. By Letters from Ireland we hear, that the Prote@ants in the ſeveral Counties of that Kingdom, are forming themſelves into Regiments, arming their Servants, and @taking every Precaution n@eceary, to convin the French that their Scheme@, if any, again@ that Kingdom, mu@ prove abortive. We hear his Maje@y's Servants have Orders to be ready on the @ﬁr@ Notice to go abroad.  taken the 20th of February, by the Spaniſh Admiral, ' in the Real, in Company with ſeven others, and brought into this Place. Capt. Palgrave was nine Days on board ' the Spaniſh Admiral. and gives an Account, that he '  5@00 Men in the late A@ion, and that the Ship ' was greatly damag'd. La@ Wedneſday in the A@ernoon two French Priva- teers@, lately taken in the Engliſh Channel, where brought up to the Tower, and their Crews landed, and con@ﬁn'd in the Tower Jail, as Priſoners of War.  POSTS. On Tueſday la@ arriv'd the Mail from Holland. GERMAN@Y. @Vienna, March 24. @@P RINC@E Lobkowitz has had po@tive Orders ſnt him to p@urſue the Spaniards and to attack them in any Place at all Events. Orders are ſent to the Troops in Bohemia to hold themſelves in a Readineſs to march, a@nd part of them are to de@ﬁle towards the Rhine. Franckfort, March 31. The Emperor has ſent march- ing Orders to his Troo@ps, and 'tis determined that they ſhall a@emble near Philipsburgh @†. ITALY. Naples, March 13 The Court having received Ad vice that the Spaniſh Army was arrived under the Can- non of Pelcara , and that Prince Lobkowitz was in purſuit of them, it was reſolved that the King ſhould put himſelf at the Head of his Army to prevent their pene- trating into the Kingdom. A Regency has been alſo e@abliſhed to govern during his Abſence. And this D@ay his Maje@y, accompanied by the Amba@ador of France and ſev@@eral Lords and Mini@ers of his Court ſet out for the Frontiers. Peſcaro, March 20 In the Dutchy of Urbino, one of the be built   Towns belonging to the See of Rome, and the large in the whole Dutchy. 'Tis a Biſhop's See, who has a @ﬁne Palace there, and is ſu@p p@oſed to have been a Roman Colony. It was  an@d afterwards rebuilt by Beliſarius The Jun@ion of the Neapolitans and Span@@@@iards was † Philipsburgh is in the Biſhoprick of Spires, part of the icwer Palatinate, anding on the Ea@ Side of t@he Rhine@ about 3 or 9 Miles below Spires. 'Tisa ſmall Town, but one of the @ronge@ in all Germany, being ſurrounded with Marſhes and well ſorti@ﬁed afte@r the modern man-  and well ſorti@ﬁed after the modern man- ner. It was formerly taken by the French, afterwards @re@ored to the Emperor, and lately retaken again when M@@arſhal Berwick l@a his Life before it.  Peſcara, @@@@@@@. our Geographical Notes in the  to his Grate t@he Duke of New- ca@le, of the 17th  Harbour, giving an Account that the D ges ſuined by his @@ Fleet under his Commad, as well in the late Engage- ment with the French and Spaniards, as in the ſubſequent Storms, being repairec@ and the Ships @ﬁtted out for the Sea, he propoſed to ſail from thence the Day fol- lowing. Theſe Letters likewiſe bring Advice that the Admiral had thought himſelf obged to ſuſpend Vice Admiral @Le@ock, in Regard to his Condu@ in the late A@ion, from all Authority in his Maje@y's Fleer, 'till the King's pleaſure ſhould be known, and that he had ordered the ſaid Vice Admiral to return Home immediately on beard his Maje@y's Ship the Salibury. L. Ga@N@D. Dublin, March 31. One of the Tranſports which ſai@d la@ Sunday for Parkgate, with 115 Soldiers and four O@ﬀicers on board, be@des the Ship's Crew, ran foul of the Man of War, by which ſhe lo@ her @Bowſprit and Forema@ Sail, but is nce got ſafe into the @e of Man. His Grace the Duke of Devonſhire has order'd a Ship to ſail thither, in order to carry the above Soldiers and Of @ﬁcers to Parkgate. Extra@ of a private Letter from Armagh, dated March 28. '@Chicheer Forteſcue, Eſq@@ High Sheri@ﬀ of the  '@from the Government for arraying the Militia of that '@County, and accordingly @Warrants were made out to the '@ſeveral High Con@ables for ſummoning the Prote@ant '@Inhabitants @ﬁt to carry Arms, who were all array'd in '@their reſpe@ive Baronies to the amount of 16,000 but '@in this County nothing has been done yet. L@O@N@ 10.  Thur@ſday a Cow belonging to Richard Andrews, of Martin in Surrey, Eſq brought three Calves alive at one Birth, which is e@eem'd the mo extraordinary Thing of  Kind ever known in England. Letters from Paris ſay, that the Britiſh Subj@es ſettled in France, who demean themſelves quietly, and mind nothing but their own A@ﬀairs, will have Per@@mion  t@here a@nd that there is no Appearance that the Court will ſei@ze  of ſuch as intend to withdraw in the Term @ipulated by Treaties. The Soldier who was ſhot a few Nights ago on his Po@ at the Magazine at Greenwich, died on Saturday Morning la@. Letters from Italy ſay, that a Party of t@he Au@rian@, under the Command of Prince Lobkowitz, had fallen in with the Baggage of the Duke of Modena, near Aſcoli, and carried it o@ﬀ, after a ſmart Engagement with the S@paniards that guarded it, Chietti is the Capital of the hither Abruzzo, the R@edence of the Governor, and an Archiepi@ſcopal See. It was antiently called Theatea, from whence the Order of Theatines ſounded by an Archbiſhop of this place, and afterwards Pope, by the Name of Paul V. It is about Twenty @ﬁve Miles South from the Frontiers of the Eccle@a@ical State, and about the ſame  @@@Ea from Peſcara, under the Cannon of which Place the the Spaniſh Army lay. @† About 30.000 l. Sterling. † Gaet@a @ands on a Rock near a Gulph of the ſame Name in the Mediterranean. It is a @rong place well fortiﬁed, of di@ﬀicult Acceſs, and its H@arbour is reckoned the be in the Kingdom. It is about 45 Miles N. @W. of Naples. @A Ships the Dover and Sapphire, being on a Cruize. obſerved a large Galliot lying o@ﬀ O@end, which they imagin'd to he Dutch, and therefore took little Notice of her the next Day they order'd one of their Boats on board @he@r, when, to the Surprize of the O@ﬀicer who was ſent, he ſaw her full of Soldiers, where- with he acquainted @the Captains of the Men of War, who immediately boarded her, and found 200 Uhlans, part of the Regiment rais'd by Count Saxe, for the French King, on which they brought her into the Downs the ſaid Ve@el came from Hamburgh, and is to be fol- low'd by the Remainder of the Regiment, who are all order'd to embark at that Port, and to land at Dunkirk, whither the above Galliot was bound. @.@@ FRANCE.@@@@ Paris, March 30. It is about three Engliſh miles long and two and an half b@road, contains about 500,000 Inhabitants, and conſequently not two Thirds as big  of France. He is a Prote@ant, and. therefore cannot a@@@ at Courts Martial, and is ſpecially exempted from taking the ordinary Oaths. @@The King's Army that is to a@emble in Flanders next Month, will be compoſed of 11@5000 Men, to be divided into two Corps, and 'tis ſa d the allied Army in that Quarter will amount to 90000, bedes light Troops. '@I'is ſaid the Duke de Ponthievre, Admiral of France, has delivered out already 5 or 600 Commi@@ons to Pri- vateers, @c@. to cruize on the Engliſh, LOW-COUNTRIES. Bru@els, April 2. The Garriſon of Furnes  is to be augmented with 400 Men, and 'tis reported that the Sluices are to be opened in order to lay the Country un- der Water about Naur, Ipres, Menin , c. A French Party, of about 600 Men have ſeized, near St. Tron §, 100 Horſes belonging to the Hanoverians, and have condu@ed them to Maubeuge, and we hear that 50 Au@rian Hu@ars have been ſurprized in a French Town, which, by mi@ake@ they took to be under the Dominion of the Queen, of Hungary. L@O@N@D@ APRIL 12. Some private Letters from Italy mention, that there are great Stirs in the Kingdom of Naples, and that it was apprehended a general Revolt would follow, on Prince Lobkowitz's entring the Frontiers. And that it was believed Don Carlos would con@ﬁde his Perſon, on his Arrival inthe Army, to the Walloon Guards having  Furnes is a @rong Town in the Earldom of Flanders, not far from the Sea @de. It andr between Nieuport and Dunkirk, on the great Canal between that Place and O@@end. It was re@ored to the Emperor by the Treaty of Utrecht, and is one of the Anrian Frontier Towns in the Netherlands. Namur is the Capital of an Earldom of the ſame Name, anding on the River Maeſe, or Me@uſe, on the Frontier of Luxemburgh Ipres and Menin are @rong Frontier Towns in Flanders, and the ne@are well forti- ﬁed Places to the French Netherlands, from which they are not above 5 miles di@ant. § St. Tron is in the County of Liege, lying on the great Road between L@@
 IN DUBBIN@! I F y@@ou have Tender Feet, Corns, or Bunions rub some of Sam Prout's Dubbin onthem  is marvellous. Will Soften and Water-@ proof Boots and Harness. Oilmen, Boot and Harness Makers retail it. 1d, 2d, 3d per Box. PRO@UT. BEAK-STREET.  W@@@@@@. ESTABLISHED  Buildings, Chancery Lane, London. TWO -AND -A -HALF per CENT. IN TEREST allowed on DEPOSITS, repayable  CENT. on CURRENT ACCOUNTS on the minimum monthly balances, when not drawn below  STOCKS SHARES, AND ANNUITIES pur chased and sold. S AVI@NGS D EPARTMENT. For the encouragement of Thrift the Bank receive small su@ms on deposit, and allows  monthly on each completed £1. B  B UILDING S  TO PURCHASE A HOUSE FOR TWO GUINEAS  ONTH@. BIRKBECK FREEHOLD LAND SOCIETY HOW TO PURCHASE A PLOT OF LAND FOR FIVE SAILLINGS PER MONTH. The BIRKBECK ALMANACK with f@uh s, post free. FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT. Manager NEW ZEALAND. REDUCED FARES  Settlers, by the New Zealand Shipping Company's @38, Leadenhall Street, London Steamers. For further particulars and for all information  Colony apply to the Agent-General for New Zealand, 13, Victoria-street, London  Zealand Shipping Co's Agents-S A Escott, 35 Paris-street, Exeter Pinder and fuckwell, 191, High-street H. J. Waring, and Co., Millbay, Plymouth, A USTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND@@@, TASMANIA. ORIENT LINE FORTNIGHTLY MAIL SERVICE. The following Steamships leave LONDON as ander, PLYMOUTH one day later, NAPLES  days later, for ALBANY, ADELAIDE, @MELBOURN@E, and SYDNEY, with  calling at Colombo, and  all Ports in Austral Asia. Steamships Tons. H.-P. Date.  7,000 ... Dec.     seven days  travelling overland can overtake the steamer at Naples. Loading Berth, Tilbury rs among the largest and fastest  cuisine, hot and cold baths, electric  thorough ventilation. First and Second Saloon Fares, £35 to £70.  £105. Also Cheap Third Class BALL ROOMS D ECORATED in the choicest  £ to £50 by WILLIAM EDWARDS, Bed- ford@ Works, Catherine-street. @Exeter. Splendid testimonials from the highest county families Latest Novelties in Silk, Satin, Lace, and other Draperies. Elegant mirrors and looking-glasses. Stages, Scenery, Prosceni@ums, Lime Light, c. CORNS! CORNS!! CORNS!!! ROSSITER'S CORN DESTROYER. Will remove the most troublesome hard or soft corn in a few days. B post o@n receipt of 11 or 15 stamps. T. E. ROSSITER, A.P.S., CHEMIST BAMPTON-STREET, TIVERTON. THE ENGLISH ORGANETTE.@ EASY  st  Musical Instrument in the World. PRICE 30  AND 4 -      Works, Blackburn. THE GREATEST REMEDY ON EARTH. THE GREAT COUGH AND COLD CURE. 1s. 1½d. and 2s. 9d.  Sold by all Chemists, or post free for 1s. 4d, and 3s. from F. WELLINGTON,@ The Chymist@@@@ Formerly Hitchcock , THE PARADE, TAUNTON. @@ Fen@church Avenue.  passage apply to the latter firm, at  E.C. or to the  S. W. T. B.  Mr. C. W. B. Pearce, Fore-  leading Doctors to-day can prove that Indigestion, Biliousness, Pain between  and Pain after Food, and in  of the Back, Sick headache, Con-@ stipation, Irritable Temper, Cold Chill, and Flashes of Heat along the Backbone,  Troubles-all very simple ailments-but all sow the germs   from Chan@ge of Life, often end  HEART TROUBLES, the only Remedy at present known to cure, is MOREL'S SOVRAN TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S  TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S @@STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH. S TIFF'S STARCH.   is sold in 4 lb., 1 lb., ½ lb., a@nd ¼ lb. fancy boxes, also in paper packets, contain- ing about 5 lbs. each. Every box or packet bears the Trade Mark, Queen Bess.@ This Trade Mark has been registered, and is a guarantee that the con- tents of the box or packet are genuine. A good deal of Starch is sold loose -that is, merely wrapped in paper or enclosed in paper bags. @Starch supplied in this way may be a cheap and very inferior article, possibly of foreign manufacture, and of little use for laundry purposes, Con- sumers, therefore, wher purchasing Stiff's Starch should get it in a box on packet, and note the Trade Mark printed in red ink on outside.  oft be grieves Last night they put him in a rage. He sat behind two new fall sleeves, And couldn't see the stage. Why do they call the living skeleton the Napoleon of the Museum@? @@@Because he is the bony part of the show.@@ AN EME@RGENCY MAN. Office Imp Please, sir, the fo'man says we're outen copy. Editor Out of copy@? Well, tell him to mix up that tea-tasting article with that Dresden China essay-@head it War in Korea, and let her go. HEADED THE WRONG WAY. This getting into debt is a bad scheme. You ought to pay as you go. I'd like to but I'm always going  London Digby, Long, and Co. We were able to speak in very high praise of Miss Lyon's former story, For Good or Evil. This, however, is far better and must be classed amongst the best books of the season. The writer has conspicuous talents in her de- scription of the scenery whither she guides us in the portraiture of the characters with which she peoples her story, in the varied pleasantries and troublous periods which go to make up the delightful romance which she unfolds in her pages, we are enchained by the most sympathetic ties, until the fortunes of hero and heroine are spun out to their satisfactory issues. It would be a misfortune to those who might accept our verdict and ask at the library for this fascinating book, were we to reveal @the plot, but it will add to the anticipations of local readers if we state that a large portion of the locale is at or near Teignmouth, the little town coming in for a quaintly interesting description. From first to last the book is continuonsly pleasing and bright t@here is not a dull page. The only disappointment is that a careless printer's reader has overlooked several stupid blunders. L  and is Sol@d everywhere  4s 6d or direct from the manufacturer@-MOREL'S SOVRAN DEPOT@ @LLANELLY, S. WALES.  detection by  @@worn in any Boot  Paris. Caution-only  58,  W Pamphlet and  Please mention  and Physical Debility for a valuable pamphlet  and organic  without stomach  is easy and pleasant, and will  permanent cure. Sent  E. Norton. 249½, High London, W.C. W ORTH 25  tried all kds of Ointments  from the Hospital  FAMILY CERATE. T  Ointment will cure the m  even of 20 years' sta@nd- nds, Sore Eyes, Bad Legs,  Nipples, Sore Throats, Cuts,  Scalds, Children's B@ad  Vaccination, Stiff Joints, Wiows, Scorbutic Eruptions, Dandriff  wet and the hair falls off ,  Chilblains, and almost every other external disease. If any  or i@mpurity of the blood is suspected  p@urifying Specific or Blood Pills, the blood, give tone and  to the heart, restore to health debilitateditutions, and will greatly assist the Family Cerate in curing the most dangerous Ulcers, ever 20 years' standing. SOLD in BOXES, 1s 1½d, 2s 9d, 4s 6d, 11s each The fol@lowing extracts from numerous Testi  als, of which the strichtest scrutiny is invited, will do more to ensure it a favourable reception  of the proprietor -Mr. Stephens, Sir, -I have no hesitation in ying t@hat your Family Cerate is worth £5 a pot,  consider it saved my leg from amputation. Mr. Ben a@min Cocks, 7, Martin-street, Ply- mouth, says @-Your Ointment has given me  cured it of 16 ulcers in the space of a  officer of Coastguards,  that having been under eight different  from three hospitals  received a complete cure with Stephen's Family Cerate from a bad leg of 18  Mr. Woodward, The Parade, Plymouth, will be pleased to testify to a complete cure of   and face, which were covered with wounds, and four doctors could not cure. In hundreds of families the name of this  word, and everyone should give it  Sold in  1s. 1½d., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., and   Chemists, or by Post for two  These Pots contain nearly double the quantity other advertised ointments, which is a great  on to the public. AGENTS. Mr. Botting, Chemist, Exeter. Mr. Bathe, Chemist, Torquay. Mr. Rawlings, Chemist, Torquay. Mr. Bibbings, Chemist, Newton Abbot. Mr. Curtis, Chemist, Totnes. Mr. St@@ewart, Chemist, Kingsbridge. Mr. Hadfield, Chemist, Dartmouth. Mr. Francis, Chemi@st, Yeovil. Mr. Hickin@g, Chemist, Barnstaple. Mr. Evans, Chemist, Ashburton. Mr. Watts, Chemist, Dorchester. Mr. Evans, Chemist, Teignmouth. Mr. Dye, Chemist, Ho@niton.  The Chymist, Tauton. Wholesale-W. Satton @and Co., Cheswell  Messrs. Lynch and Co., @n. Evans, Gadd, and Co.   ate J. H STEPHENS. @BU  Villas, Kensal Green,@@ @Lon don, W., May, 189. Dear Sir, -I feel it my duty to tell you I had Rheumatic Gout once, and had to stop at home for three weeks. I can- not describe the pain I suffered. I read your advertisement, and looked upon it as all others. A brother signalman said. Try them.@@ I did so. THE FIRST TWO PILLS TOOK THE PAIN AWAY in a few hours, and I was able to resume my work. No one need be frightened to take them. I have recom- mended them to all whom I have heard complaining of Rheumatism, Gout,Lum- bago, Neuralgia, c. I hope no one will doubt my state- ment. -Yours sincerely, JAS. PETTENGALL. Mr. G. Eade. EADE'S GOUT AND RHEUMATIC PILLS Prepared by George Eade, 72, Goswell-road,  C. and sold by all Chemists in bottles, 1s 1½d and 2s 9d. EADE'S GOUT AND RHEUMATIC PILLS. THE BEST MEDICINE FOR BILE, THE BEST MEDICINE FOR WIND, THE BEST MEDICINE FOR INDIGESTION, IS E ADE'S A NTIBILIOUS P ILLS. They quickly remove the irritation and feverish state of the STOMACH, correct the morbid condition of the LIVER, relieve the system of all impurities, which, by circulating in the blood, injuriously affect the action of the KIDNEYS, and, by removing the causes of so much discomfort restore the vital energies of body and mind. EADE'S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS. Sold by all Chemists in Boxes, 1s @1½d and 2s 9d, or mailed Free on receipt of remittance by GEORGE EADE, 72,  E.C. EADES ANTIBILIOUS  mean, sir? Mr. Brotherton Oh, these are just a few socks, under-clothes, coats, c., that need mending you promised last night that you would always be a sister to me, and my sister used to do all @my mending before she married. SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT. Mr. Oldbear Now, please don't give me that old chestnut about being a sister. Miss Vera Young You mistake me, sir! I was merely about to remark that I am willing to be a widow to you. NOT AN AUTHORITY. Hookley How do you think a lady should dress for bicycle riding? Hodley I don't know I never saw a lady dress.@@ A SURE INDICATION. Business is business. Whom have you rs that have used it say it is the best Poison, as they find a lot of Rats dead by using it.-Post free 1s 2d, 2s, 3s box, of Sandford and Son, Sandy, Beds. Send stamps and try it@! Sold by Chemists. Also Mice Poison to dressing corn stacks. Wholesale of Evans, Gadd and Co., Exeter. D EAF Persons should be told of the New Invention for curing Deafness it is a small Ear Trumpet and Artifical Drum com- bined, worn in the ears invisibly. Sent on pay- ment of @half-price balance when cured . Descriptive Treatise, three stamps.-Leigh and Richardson, 225, Upper Brook-street, Man- chester. @@Y OUR EYES, if they are weak, sore,@@@ inflamed, or bloodshot, should be bath@ed daily with @@OPTIC LOTION. This remedy improves weak sight, also preventing the need of spectacles for children. Sent free for 2s 9d, with valuable information on the eyes.-Address Richardson, specialist, 27, Brazenose-street, Manchester.  @@pton Throat Deafness, Catarrh, Sore Throats, Colds, etc., cured by new remedy used by Eminent Medical Specialist for these diseases. Harmless and pleasant to use. Sent with full directions for treatment, 2s 9d post free. Richardson, Specialist, 27, Brazenose-street, Manchester. £20 TOBACCONISTS COMMENCING . Write for Illd. Guide to the trade 259 pages , 3d. How to open a Cigar Store from £20 to £2,000. Tobacconists' Outfitting Co@, 186, Eston-road, London. N.B.-Shop- fitters and show case makers for all trades. Estimates free.-Manager, HE @@@@@@@ M ARRIED LADIES.-Information of Priceless Values Free sen@@d mped envelope.-Mrs. Lawrence, 4, Bra street, Sheffield. Name this paper . L ADIES' Ailments, irregularities, obstruc- tions, c. The advertiser have tried every known remedy in vain, has discovered a simple mean of self-cure. Particulars will be sent free of charge. Write privately, enclosing stamped envelope to Mrs. St. Clair, 46, Southampton- buildings, London, @! Free, two stamps. Handy illustrated guide and p@rice list of ladies' requirements. Saves time, trouble, and expense. Invaluable information.-Publisher, 35, C@olston-street, Bristol. An M.D. writes - Smartly written book. Mention paper. I MPORTANT TO LADIES.-The most wonderful medicine ever discovered for all irregularities, and obstructions, however obstinat or long-standing. Thousands have been relieved by this miraculous remedy, and thereby saved trouble, illness, and exp@nfe. Perfectly harm- less, and astonishingly effectual, as testified to by hundreds of married and single females. Numerous unsolicited testimonials. Pills alone are useless and only bring disappointment. Stamped addressed envelope for price list. The only effectual remedy on earth. Try and judge for yourselves.-A. Dasmail, 370, Langcale, Walt@h  classes of buildings. Farmer Diggit You can insure it if you really want to but I don't think it'll burn up very soon. We're a-diggin' a well@! Johnny There's one thing curious about discovering places that I don't understand. Teacher What's that@? Johnny Take Bermuda, for instance. It was discovered by a man named Bermudez, but how he stumbled on a place with a name like his own, beats me@! A STRONG RECOMMENDATION. Customer These are the best cigars you have, eh? @@Dealer Those are the kind I give to the policeman on the beat.@@@@@@ A PURELY BUSINESS MOTIVE. Mr. Lozing Hope May @I-may I speak to your father, Miss Col@e? Miss Vera Co@le It is useless, Mr. Hope I can never be your wife. Mr. Hope Excuse me, I visited to ask him to return me the twenty pounds he borrowed from me I'm getting a little anxious about it A DISAPPOINTING CIRCUMSTANCE. Traveller enquiring at Feudal Castle Can I see t@he antiquities to-day@? Servant I am afraid not, sir. My lady and her daughter have gone to town. ENOUGH SAID. @Woman Lawyer What is your age? Woman Witness I was born in the same year as yourself. Woman Lawyer Witness excused. SELF-DEFENCE. Justice What were you doing in Colonel Gauderby's chicken coop@? @Uncle Mos Shur', yo' honoh, he frettened to tah ah' fedder me, an' I was tryin' to mek sech a ting @Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Asthma. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Broachi@s. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Hoa snes. @@Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Lung Troubles. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Night Coughs. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Influenza. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Relieved Instantly. Powell's Balsa@m of Aniseed. Safe and Reliable. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Established 70 years. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. efuse Imitations. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Sold by @Cheista. Powell's B@alsam of Aniseed. Trae Mar@k. Powell's Balsam of Aniseed. Lion, Net, Mouse. Powell's Balsam @of Aniseed. 1s 1½d, 2s 3d, 4s 6d, and 11s per bottle. During last months 41 certificates of naturalization were granted to aliens by the Home Secretary under the provisions of the Naturalization Act, 1870. At a meeting under the auspices of the Anti-Gambling League at Birmingham on Tuesday night, a resolution in favour of local control of racecourses was lost by a large majority. T@he audience refused to hear Mr. Hawke, the secretary of the League, and the meeting broke up in disorder.  is now VENUS SOAP. It preserves clothing and saves rubbing. CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO  IN TEA may be attained in one way only-by skilfully blending the choicest growths of Ceylon, India, and other Tea producing countries. Ceylindo is composed en- tirely of high class Teas, and is pro- claimed by Con- noisseurs to be THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN TEA. Per 1s 0d lb. Per 1s 3d lb. Per 1s 6d lb. CEYLINDO includes no Tea which does not possess some dis- tinctive good qual- ity. To the delicious flavor of the Ceylon is added the rich creaminess of Indian and other Teas the whole being so harmoni- ously blended that the result is A PERFECT TEA Per 1s 0d lb@. Per 1s 3d lb. Per 1s 6d lb. THE ACME OF PERFECTION IN TEA. CEYLINDO DE LUXE. Per 1s  CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO  quality, which are invariably@tested by the Proprietors of CEYLINDO, and for those con- noisseurs who wish for such excep- tionally luxurious and delicious Teas, they are obtainable under the brand of Ceylindo de Luxe. Per 1s 9d lb. Per 2s 0d lb. CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO CEYLINDO DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE DE LUXE  in Fig. 1 this week. It is simply trimmed @by a scarf of delicate creamy lace twisted round, terminating in high fan bows at the left side, and fastened by a rather large paste buckle. Some of these fur and lace toques have bunches of violets ticked in, and this flower seems likely to run the risk of losing its boasted modesty of disposition, so much flattering attention is again being shown it quite half the hats and bonnets being trimmed with violets just now, in addition to evening gowns, jabots, and all sorts of toilette odds and ends. Chrysanthe- mums ar@e a good deal used, mauve especially. Black chrysanthemums, too, have been in- troduced, and many of these flowers are cleverly made in velvet, and have a very pretty effect for winter millinery.  SUPREME Not only is it the most effective skin puri- fying and beautifying soap in the world, but it is the purest, sweetest, and most refresh- ing for toilet, bath, and nursery. It is so because it strikes at the cause of bad com- plexions, falling hair, and simple baby blem- ishes, viz.  Sold everywhere. Price, 1s. F.  1, King Edward-st., London, E. C. The Alleged Forged Telegrams. At Bow-street on Thursday William Cooper telegraphist William Machitosh, telegraphist, Louis Sturman, telegraphist George Holloway, hairdresser James Hatch- man, William Luetchford, greengrocer Charles Wilson, waiter, and Henry Wilson, traveller, were oharged on remand with con- spiring to obtain money by forged telegrams. Henry Wilson did not surrender to bail, consequently a warrant was issued. John Foster, telegraph- ist, deposed that he gave Sturman the names of winners in important@races. Defendant were  to be worn for evening dress this winter and announcement producing a we and trembling, till we find they will bear no resemblance to the fearful and wonderful erections worn by ladies some sixty or seventy years back, which, in addition to a mighty swathing of gauze, silk, and muslin, were decorated with anything in the way of gorgeous jewels or feathers up to a bird of paradise. The up-to-date turban will be quite small, and really like the very pretty Cloches de Corneville caps, worn also for evening about ten years ago. In Fig. 2 we have a very becoming blouse, in deep red bengaline, trimmed with jet passementerie. This pretty bodice is tucked over the shoulders, from whence it is allowed to go free over the bust, then tucked again at the waist, and loose once more below. The tabs of jetting passing between each row of tucks terminate in jet fringe, which also finishes the same at throat and wrists. The sleeves, it will be seen, are of Bishop pattern, with rows of jet passementerie placed perpen- dicularly.  throughout the Kingdom. Should difficulty be experienced in  in any particular District, the Pro- prietors will, on Application to their Depôt,  E.C., furnish the name and address of the Agent for such District. Somebody once asked Oscar Wilde which two books had had the greatest influence upon the English language. The Bible, and -Bradshaw. was the reply.  clean paint, scrub floors, do any household work. VENU@S SOAP saves rubbing. Mr. Justice Williams made an order on Thurs- day for the compulsory winding up of the Bank of South Australia. The petition was pre- sented by the Union Bank of Australia, who had taken over all the assets and liabilities of the Bank of South Australia, and now claimed as creditors for over £350,000, which they said they had paid in excess of what they had received. When MATCHLESS CLEANSER SOAP is used MATCHLESS CLEANSER has swept away A thousand worries of Washing Day. At Liverpool on Wednesday a man who gave the name of John Smith, alias W. Webb, belonging to London, was remanded on a charge of breaking into eleven churches in the city and suburbs and stealing various articles, including contents of money boxes. William Thomas Patterson was also remanded at Liverpool on a charge of threatening to shoot a policeman. Prisoner was caught loitering near the judge's residence with a full- loaded revolver about the time the justices were passing for assizes. A STYLISH BLOUSE. FIG. 2 This design would look equally well in any material pliant enough to allow of the tuck- ing. Velvet blouses are charming for winter wear, but would not make up well in a tucked design of this kind, as it would make the waist so thick. Crepon is undoubtedly the material just now of fancy kinds. In addition to the Wave Mohair@@ we have previously chroni- cled, two further introductions are now being used for winter gowns, the Caracuille and the Bark crepons. The latter is, as its name suggests, an imitation of the bark of a tree the undulations being about the same size as those of a medium size tree bark. Such pronounced patterned fabrics as @thse should be most sparingly trimmed, and of the various trimmings now a@u fait velvet is the best of any.  was sentenced to death at Nottingham Assizes on Thursday for murdering her child, seventeen months. Prisoner on the day preceding the crime had been taxed by her mother as to her condition. She left home and walked into the river Trent. The baby was drowned, but prisoner was rescuscitated. The jury made a strong recommendation to mercy. It was proposed to empanel a jury of matrons, but the Judge held that it was unnecessary, pro- mising that effect should me given to the recommendation of the jury. Arrest of a Supposed Housebreaker at Barnstaple. On Wednesday at the Barnstaple Borough Police Court-before Messrs. S. Goss, W. Curtis, and W. Fisher-Arthur Clair Farrell, an apprentice to the wood turning business, at Barnstaple, was brought up an@ charged on suspicion with breaking into and entering the refreshment - room of the Great Western Railway Station on the morning of November 30th and stealing there from four packets of tobacco, value 1s 8@d, the property of Mr. William Trr, of the King's Arms Hotel. -Mr J Bosson prosecuted on behalf of the police, and Mr. A F Seldon defended.-A boot was found in the room in the night in question, which belonged to the 4th Devon Militia. It was proved that prisoner belonged to the Militia, and had worn home a boot something similar to it. A remand was granted until next week, and bail was granted in £20 for prisoner and a surety in £20. St. Thomas Local Board.  1 6, 1 8 and 2 - per lb. Of all leading grocer At a concert given this week at Wellington Salop , Mr. W. Peplow, of S@hifnal, who is in his 101st year, presided, and contributed to the entertainment by singing Scatter seeds of kindness. The old gentleman was present at Waserloo. BURDWOOD'S WIND PILLS.-The never failing remedy for Indigestion, Wind @Pas@ Habitual Costiveness, Palpitation of the heart Pains in the head, Siekheadache, Giddiness Sluggish Liver, and Stomach Complaints. Sole proprietor, R. H. Rendle, M.P.S., Chemist, Albert-road Devonport. Sold by all Chemists, at 1s 1½d 2s 9d. and 4s 6d per box Sent post free. An offer by Mr. Henry Ya@tes Thompson to erect, at a cost@ of about £10,000, a conserva- tory in Sefton Park, the only condition being that it should be opened on Sundays as well as on weekdays, wa@s on Wednesday accepted by the Liverpool City Council. A new pianist, by name Rosenthal, will arrive in London next spring. His execution and physical strength are stupendous, and they say that what he does not know about piano playing is not wort@h knowing. A Choice Present.@@@ A Choice Presen@@@t @XMA@S. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE TEA XMAS. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE TEA In 3-lb Hampers, all Prices. OF  a modish gown of dark Indigo Bark crepon, with a cape en@ suite, cut in the newest mode quite to the shape of the shoulders. The sole trimming, it will be seen, consists of a panel of velvet the same shade on left side, over the upper part of which falls a frou-frou of the material and velvet the cape being finished by a ruffle of velvet, and revers and frou-frou of alternate crepon and velvet. Mrs. Patrick Campbell's costume in John- a-Dreams,@@ at the Haymarket, call for no special comment beyond the inconsistency of wearing sables in a Midsummer scene but Miss Steer wears a notable one, in the first act, of pink satin, shading from deep from the skirt upwards to very pale the skirt being covered in black and moonlight sequins, to imitate the markings of a serpent and a charming little velvet cape of old rose donned afterwards. The enormous amount of black now being worn is Paris in courtesy to Russia is a source of considerable chagrin to the shop- keepers and modistes, who had prepared themselves with a wealth of lovely-coloured fabrics of all kinds for the winter season especially a this assumption of mourning often of the most coquettish description threatens to last some time. The rage for pearls there just now is tre- mendous for evening wear, the jewellers finding quite a difficulty in meeting the demand. The two new extra women of the bed chamber just appointed at Windsor are the Hon. Caroline Cavendish and Lady Cowell the sala@ry is £300 a year. A Choice Present. A Choice Present. XMAS. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE TEA XMAS. HAMPERS OF MAZAWATTEE TEA In 3-lb Hampers, all Prices. OF  of the St. Thomas Local Board on Wednes- day. Those also present were Messrs. R Heath, J. Stocker, Densham, Clogg, and J Tucker. Surveyor's Report. The Surveyor Mr. Churchward reported tha@t at a meeting of the Gas Committee to con- sider whether any alteration should be made @in the time for extinguishing@@ the public lamp the matter was deferred for the con- sideration of the new Board.-Mr. Stocker said the committee thought the extended time was necessary, but had deferred it so that it might not be said that it had been done for electioneering purposes.@-@Mr. Churchward further reported that there was one patient in the Sanitorium. As directed at the last meeting, he had prepared plans and estimate for an outfall sewer from the present works to the river Exe at Duck's Marsh and Countess Weir. With reference to the latter scheme. the length of the sewer was 3,572 yards with an inclination of one in 900. The cost of this scheme would be £5,000. In the Duck's Marsh scheme the length of the sewer was 2,337 yards with an inclination of one in 900. The cost of this scheme would be £3,550. Sir Redvers Buller was proceeding very slowly in the connection of his drains to the main sewer on the other side of the mill leat -It was decided to submit the two sewage schemes as alternatives when the Local Government Board enquiry takes places.-On the motion of Mr. Tucker, seconded by Mr. Densham, it was decided that Sir Redvers Buller be summoned. The Last Act Votes of Thanks. Mr. Heath, in moving a vote of thanks to the Chairman for his conduct in the chair, said the manner in which he had conducted the Board's business reflected the greatest credit on him. Since he the speaker @@had been on the Board-about twenty-seven years-a lot of business had been done, and the manner in which it had been carried out had prevented them spending a single £5 note in needless expen- diture.-Mr. Stocker seconded. In all his public life nothing had given him greater pleasure than the way in which their business had been conducted If what had been called the young gang would take a losson from the old gang it would be all as it ought to be. After fifty years the Board would, in a few days, cease to exist, and he thought no Board in the land could show better results than they. Their experience had been unique, for during all those years there had only been three chairmen-Mr. Wentworth Buller, Mr. Robert Taylor Pines, and, for the last twenty-five years, Mr. Farrant-and during twenty-five years they ha@d only had two clerks. He believed it was thirty years ago that very day that Mr. Champion was appointed. Anything in praise of him would be superfluous. The Surveyor was a very good man, and he had good men under him.-The motion was carried unanimously.-Mr. @Farrant thanked the members most heartily for the kind ma@nner in which they had spoken of him, and for their kindness to him during the time he had presided over them. He heartily concurred in Mr. Stocker's remarks regarding the officers. Mr. Ch@ampion had shown himself a master of finance and the extension of their water- works, the magnificent fliter-beds, second to none in England, @were a credit to Mr. Church- ward, to the parish, and to the Board. It was with the greatest possible regret that he saw that several of his old friends had not again came forward. F. C. Bond, licensed victualler of Plymouth, has been adjudicated a bankrupt.  SOAP washes white and pure, all fabrics. VENUS SOAP saves rubbing. There is a report in Paris that Captain Dreyfus has escaped from prison. The death is announced of Miss Victoria Vokes, the last of the family at the age of 41. The Royal Yacht Squadron has sent a challenge for the America Cup on behalf of Lord Dunraven.  At 1 4 1 6, @ per . Of leading grocers The Right on. @A. J. Mundella is to visit Sheffield for the purpose of addressing his constituents on the 15th inst. Intelligence from the Afghan frontier is that the headmen of the Mashud Wazirus are disposed to come to terms with the British Commander. Xmas. Hampers! Xmas. Hampers! DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS In 3-lb X@mas. Hampers, all Prices. OF 
 COUNCILS. The first Parish Meetings in accordance with the Local Government Act of 1894 were  the country on Wednesday.  particulars relating to those held in the West. The poll, where demanded, will take place on the 18th instant, and the first meeting of the Council will be held the 27th. Where there is no poll the first  for the 13th instant.  nomination papers were handed in and eventually a poll was demanded. ASHBURTON. Major Tucker presided, and there were forty-one candidates for fifteen seats. two withdrawing. A show of hands resulted  Irish, gentleman, 88@@ G C  82 J Honey will, labourer, 75 J Baker, accountant, 65 White, china merch Yates, merchant, 64 J P Tcker, merchant, 63 T @W Mann, coal  brush manufacturer  auctioneer, 49 P F  48 J H Foaden, contractor, 45 W T Smerdon, farmer, 44, T Lamshead, farmer, 42 C S Wotton, baker, 34. A poll was  Rev. E. J. G. Dupuis presided, and  were handed in -James Brower, labourer William G Coles,  Dymond, farmer W H Dadd, yeman G P Finch, brewer James Hawkings, farmer James Hitchings,  farmer W Leach dai Lendon, shonaker J  C Marks,  J R R Mitchell, market gardener R J Newberry, dairyman William Perkins, builder John  Richards, farmer A Smith, joiner A J Scanes, baker E Tucker,  R White, farmer F Wippell, tanner and T R Wippell, tanner. A vote was taken, but a poll was demanded. BRADNINCH.  presided, and for twelve  twenty-two nominations were handed in A poll was demanded.  following were nominated  Cann, Dyer, Ellicott,  Hartnoll, Johns, Lamprey, Lane, Manaton, Mason, Middleton, Palmer,  Pugsley, Slee, Snow, s, Webber, Yeo, and  certain.  Hall presided. Fourteen candidates were nominated, and the following seven were elected -W T Baskerville, W G Halls, F F W Hawker. John King, J B  Cowling, and G Cann.  A show of hands was in favour  Messrs, Havcroft, Ponsford,  Wreford, Powlesland, Howe, D, and Bowden, buta poll was demanded. CHURSTON  Simpson, J.P., presided.  vacancies to fid, and the show of hands  in favour of Messrs  Pearce, To@ms, Toms, and Messrs Warren and Gill being equal  The chairman gave  favour of the former. Mr Beer then demanded a  following were proposed and -William Tremlett, farmer, Holla- combe Samuel Snell, farmer,  butcher, Yeoford William  farmer, Binneford and James Burnett, labourer,  were nominated at Hookway, and on a show of hands the following four  @M. Mallett, 22 Daniel M. Norrish, 21 Lewis Lock, 20 Richard  were elected as follows  Poe Spencecombe , John  @, and W. C. Milton post-  Rutley was elected chairman, and  nominations had been handed follows  J P Baker,  jeweller C B Ewens,  R  @yeoman W  Rev G Forrester, srs M T Foster, ch@emis builder W E Gillard, axle ner C Granger, carpenter T P Grant,@ J A Gran, J.P.  , mechanic in axle  W J Heard, postmaster E Labdon,  E Lawrence, jun., farmer W A  F Leach, foreman in  physician and surgeon  C @R Mackia,  gentleman T Mitchell, s, retired tin-plate  C Quick, porter J . Hayne Barton @, farmer C Reynolds  J Sansoin,  Tanner, C Taylor, mason W  C J Upcott, merchant  J S  gentle@man. @The  @W J A Grant, and Mr W  nomination. Voting  a poll was demanded. DAW@LISH. There were nine members to be elected, but  were handed in. The show of hands resulted as follows -John Gibson, 28 Thomas Scarle, 28 John Gopplestonea 27 Richard  Rev C F Francis Benthell, William Waterfields 23,  rol Adams, 15 John Carpenter,  5 Colonel F F Lyster, poll  the first  elected.  Kekewich presided, and the  handed in -Lewis Aggett,  Drew, Pea@more Cottage Dyer, @Matford Home Far@m  Cottages Richard  Miller, the  John@ fuck. Thomas William Strong,  Brenton Robert Trood, Matford @Wippell, Barton Farm. The  declared these elected.  @meeting at the  Alderman Burch, J P., @the @chair, and, after a brief  of procedure,  be sent in. This was  declared that all the  with the exception of that o@ther Mr. John Capron, who was no@mi- nated as @a District Councillor instead of a Parish Couucillor. On hearing the announcement a shout of laughter went up, and Mr. Capron coming forward said, @You have not pronounced rightly. -The Chair- man I don't understand you. You or someone else have filled up the wrong nomina- tion paper, and therefore I declare it invalid. -Mr. Capron I bow to your decision. Cheers and laughter. -The Chairman then informed the meeting that twenty-two nominations had been received for fifteen seats.-Questions were then invited, and Mr. Wilson said he had a few to ask.-The Chair- man I shall be @happy to put them, but don't let us have too much we don't want to stay here until to-morrow morning.-The first question by Mr. Wilson was Will you vote that all public meetings of the Parish Councils shall be held in the evening@? Hear, hear. Most of the candidates expressed themselves in favour of this.@@@ -The second question was Will you vote for a parish reading room, a lecture and entertain- ment hall, together with a recreation-ground for Heavitree. One of the candidates said I will do all that, but the first thing I should like to see is the streets to be put in order. Mr. Battishill declined to pledge himself.-Colonel Vaughan said the Council would only have the management of something like £300 a year if they wished to spend more they had to come to the parish meeting. -Mr. Evans was in favour of the proposal, but thought it should ,be brought before the ratepayers.-The third question was whether the candi- da es would vote for the working men acquiring allotments within reasonable distances of their homes, and the price to be proportionate to that paid per acre by tenant farmers and dairymen. The majority of the candidates replied in the affirmative to this query, as also so one relating to whether the charities of the pa@rish would be thoroughly investigated and impartially administered irrespective of party or creed. -@The Chairman then took a show of hands for all the candidates. The result was -W H Coombes, builder, 146 Rev S @H Berkeley, vicar, 134 Mr @H Hill, junr, market gardener, 127 Lieutenant-Colonel Vaughan, 126 W Burnett, shoemaker, 111 A Brooking, gentleman, 110, W J Battishill, solicitor, 104 W @W Evans, coal merchant, 104 G Pennell, gentleman, 103 C H Bampfylde, iron founder's foreman, 101 J Adams, farmer, 98 J Melhuisb. bricklayer, 98 R Snow, farmer, 96 C Sclater, nursery- man, 93 R James, gardener, 92. @T@he follow@ing were unsuccessful -Mr G Burridge 87 Mr P J Liddell 85 Mr A G Pyle 42 Mr J Hayman 37 Mr J Sampson 32 @Rev T Woodcock 31, Rev G M Wilson 6.-The chairman asked if anyone demanded a poll. Mr G Havill demanded a poll on behalf of the @Rev G M Wilson, but he afterwards with- drew. The chairman after waiting ten minutes without any demanded declared the foregoing 15 elected. They are the same gentlemen as were selected by the parish meeting except that Mr Snow takes the place of Mr Burridge. HIGHWEEK. Mr. W. Vicary was chairman. There were thirty - eight nomination papers handed in, five of were duplicated and two declared invalid.-A vote was taken in the roo@m when the following were the first 12-J Olver 88 T Meat@herdon, 75 I Vicary 72 I Rodgers, 68 C S Vicary, 65 C Adams plumber , 63 @N Goss, 63 Rev Harris, 53@, @W S Pinsent, 51 G Irish, 50 M H Jarvis 55 S Mogridge, 44 R @Pascoe, 44 A poll was demanded by the Rev S Ly@ne on be@half of Mr W L Shilston, which was, how- ever afterwards withdrawn, but a poll was then demanded on behalf of Mr R S Stevens. IDE. Mr J E C Walkey, J.C , was elected chair- man. There are nine seats, and 25 nominations were ha@nded in as follows -Messrs J Braddon, J Blythe, @W C Channon, J Caunter, W Cox gardener . W Cox baker , F C Gilpin, W Hale, E H Loye, H Milton, T Perkins, J @Piller, C W Ruddall, T Richards, W Satterly, J H  Colonel @W S@mee, C Stone, J Tucker, J Tuckett, @E Voysey, and E Wright. On examination, Mr @J Tucker was declarod invalid, and there was one duplicate paper. A show of hands w@as taken, but a poll was demanded. KINGSK@ERSWELL. A show of hands resulted as follows -@E S Ford, 56 H J Crocker, 53 J Stook@e, 52 D Cate@r 51 W Drew, 44 J Alist@aff, 41 I H Hicks, 38 S Hicks, 37 T Wollaco@tt 33 J Wollacott, 33, Floyd, 32 R Fren@ch, 32 E, A Loch, 30 G Fagan, 29 J J Wale, 25 S  @H Leader, 24 S Dorman, 24 J L Brown, 23 J Lee, 16 A C@handler, 14 T Cod@ner, 14 @J @H Wilkinson, 12 J Bovey 10, W B Jenkins, 6@ and J B Mann, 6. Mr A Chandler demanded a poll on be@half of the female voters. KINGSTEIGNTON. There were 100 no@minations handed in, in favour of 42 candidates for the 13 seats. A show of h@ands was taken, but a poll is  Birch was appointed chairman, and 23 nomination papers were handed in,  these were reduced to 18. After voting a poll was demanded. MAKER. In the Millbroo@k Ward. the @Rev. W @H Millett presiding, there were forty-three nominations for eleven seats. A show of hands was taken, but a poll was demanded. NEWTON ST. CYBES. The following were elected -T Ba@ttinge farmer J Hallett, labourer M Passmore, gentleman G Berry, farmer @W Coombe, miller G Ha@ncock, shoemaker J Parker, road contractor J Chudley, tailor G Rowe, farmer. NORTHTAWTON. Alderman Snell presi@ded, and a show of hands was followed by a demand for a poll. NORTHTA@@WTON. There were 12 members to @be elected, and 23 nominations were handed in. A poll was demanded. OKE@HAMPTON HAMLKTS. Mr. C. Geen, J.P., was voted to the chair and a show of hands resulted as follows -R Madge, H Gee@n, E P Northey, Brown, John King, @R Walters, C Carr. There were declared elected, a demand for a poll by Mr G Ellis being withdrawn. PI@LTON BARNSTAPLE . Mr @W Fisher was voted to the chair, and following eight were elected -Messrs G @W F Brown solicitor , J Daniel briekmaker , A Galliford painter , William Goss miller , William H Harding wheelwright , Thomas Hoyles blacksmith , William Lemon mer- chant , and E B Stowell shoemaker . PINHOE. The following were the selected candi- dates -Davey, working man Turner, farmer Carr, wine merchant Ford, working man Lake, farmer J. Elworthy, coal merchant Mills, working man D. Elworthy, market gardener J. Hartnoll, publican. A poll was demanded.@@ SAMPFORD PEVERILL. Mr. J. Burrough presided, and after a show of @hands a poll was demanded. SOUTH BRENT. Mr. T. Richards was appointed chairman, and there were twenty-nine nominations. The Rev. J. R. Walker demanded a poll after a shhow of hands ad been declared. SANDFORD. Mr. A F. Davie was voted to the chair. For. eleven seats 23 were nominated, and a show. of @hands was followed by a demanded for a poll. ST. LEONARD, @EXETER. There are only three county ratepayers in the parish. Mr. F. Thomas presided, and Mr. Mitchell proposed the Rev. J. F. Sheldon as parish chairman. Mr. Sheldon seconded this himself, and the meeting ended. SHERWOOD. The following were elected -As District Councillor, Mr George Toogood Parish Councillors-William Fry, mason Henry John Holman, smith @William Melhuish, farmer James Harris Ski@nner, farmer George Toogood, yeoman Philip Wheaton yeoman and@@ Henry Hugo Worthington, gentle@man. ST. BUDKAUX. @Mr. Henry Matthews presided, and after a show of hands a poll was demanded. TAVISTOCK. Mr. W. E. Baker was voted to the chair. On a show of hands the voting @was -Friend 180, Winney 163, Cocks 161, Alford 150, Shepperd 142, Ryall 134, Squire 123 Foster. 121, Martin 121, Higmau 111, Gill 105, Harris 105, Ash 97. Mr. W. Matthews demanded a poll. T@ORRINGTON. Mrs. Oliver, Mrs. H. Pope, Mr. J. Jackson. Mr. T. Copp, and Mr. T. Lock were nominated No poll was demanded. TOPSHAM. Mr A K Hamilton presided and said there had been 30 nomination papers sent in by Messrs L Alford, J Bartlett, B Bowden, T Chown, @G De@nsham, G Dickerson, Sir Dudley Duckworth-King, F Ellis, C Ferris, @W J Good- man E Gale, @H Gubb, A K Hamilton, S Flood T E Hopewell, W. Lux@ton, G May, G Mudge, G Murphy, @T H Peria@m, R Pollard, G Pons- ford, G Pyne, W Potter, E Sandford R Tapley, E T@rout, J Tuckett, F Underhill, N Wannell. A show of hands was taken, but a poll was demanded. POLIS DEMANDED. Polls were demanded, among other places, at Buckland Monachoru@m, @Coombeinteign- head, Egg Buckland, Ermington, Kingswear, Upton Pyne, Willand.a Hall, where is to take place the marriage between Prince Adolphus of Teck and Lady @Margaret Grosvenor, daughter of the Duke of Westminster, is some four miles from Chester, in the midst of the lovely Dec- side scenery. It is an estate that came into the possession of the Grosvenors in the fifteenth century, by the marriage of Raufe de Grosvenor wit@h Joan, the daughter and heiress of John Eaton. The family have always been lucky in love, for the great Pimlico property, which now brings in enor- mous sums to the Duke, and will ere long return still more, was the marriage portion of Mary @Davies, daughter of one Alexander Davies, of Elrond Manor, Middlesex. Her son, Sir Robert Grosvenor, lived at Peterborough House, on a site which has since been occu- pied by @Millbank Prison, and is now vacant. It had belonge@d to the Mordaunts, Earls of Peterborough, and the last of them, the eccant e noble@man who had so romantic a career in Spain, sold it to the Grosvenors, who rebuild it is 1735. Eaton Hall, as it now exists, is practically the third of its name. The first was built in the reign of William III., the next in 1803. In 1845 this one was greatly altered, and in 1869 it was practically rebuilt. The work took some five years, and the result is an edifice in the Domestic Gothic Style, one of the most palatial in England. The chapel where the marriage takes place has a tower higher than any other in the neighbourhood. One of the most charming apartments in connection with the hall is the tea-house, a summer retreat which is orna- mented with paintings on marble by Mr. H. S. Marks. The artist has depicted the Seven Ages of Man, the signs of the Zodiac, and various designs taken from an@imal life. The pillars are of oak grown on the estate, and the floor of parquetrie-verily @@a lordly pleasure-house. @@These things may well be found at the Duke's dwelling, for @he is no @doubt the richest man in England. He owns 20,000 acres of agricultural land besides his splendid Belgravian estate.  who has just  to his de- mands at Antan- anarivo, is familiar with the state of @affairs in @Madagas- car. He was French Resident there seven years ago, and had many diple-atic struggles with that little old man of 67, the Prime Minister, who he found a very subtle diplomatist. M. de Vilers has not much suavity, but he has a good deal o@f determination, and he and the Premier were pretty well matched. On one occasion  hauled down the French flag at the capital, in order to try to frighten the Malagasy into agreeing to his policy. He was, last year, the French age@nt who extorted such stringent terms from the King of Siam, and it was his success there that@ decided the French Government to send him out as special envoy to Madagascar, in order to bully or cajole the Pre@mier into submission.  Asthma has long been classed amongst the incurable diseases. It has baffled the greatest skill of the medical profession. On the other @haad it is remarkable that doctors should for so long a time have clung to a wholly in- efficient method of treating it. Asthma is a spasmodic affection of the bronchial tubes of the lungs, and the usual course of treatment calls for the employment of various nauseating drugs which are taken in the stomach. Medicine so take@n may in course of time reach the lungs and have a slight@ effect, just as@ everything taken in the stomach finally acts in some degree upon every part of the system, but the number of failures to cure Asthma in this way demonstrates too clearly that such treatment is a mistaken one. The only true treatment of Asthma is by inhalation. @By this means the remedy at once reaches the real seat of trouble. Within a comparatively recent period. Dr. R. Schiffmann, who has made the treatment of Asthma, and kindred complaints the study of a lifetime, has pre- pared a remedy known as Schiffman's Asthma Cure. With this remedy there is no waiting for results. Being inhaled it acts directly upon the mucous membrane of the air passages, relieving the spasm and contractions instantaneously, facilitating free expectora- tion, and insuring comfortable rest to those otherwise unable to sleep except in a chair. Briefly, it eff@ects c@ures where medicine have failed. The great confidence of the pro- prietor in his remedy will be @aily appre- clate I when he requests as he now does the publisher of this paper to @ma@ke public announcement of the following @of@fer. He will refund the money to any person who, having purchased a package of his chemist, finds on giving it a fair trial that it does not do as claimed for it. Most chemists have in on sale in two @si@zes, retailing at 2s 6d and 4 6@ per package, or should any ch@emist not have it or decline to order it for a sufferer, a package will be sent, post free, on receipt of the amount by Dr. @R. Schiffmann U S. , 34, H.J., Gray's Iun @@Road, London. W.C@. A most convincing list of testimonials and pamphlets will be sent free to any  just turned up none the worse for his position on the Arctic Kolguev Island, is the son of the Rev. W. W. Battye, the rector of Hever, near Edenbridge, in Kent. At Oxford he was noted for re- establishing, after an interval of 150 years, a hawking club. When he left college he did a lot of work for the Field on fishing, hunting, and natural history, and in 1891 he became editor of the Pictorial @Worl@d. Las@t year be formed a desire to explore Kolguev  because no one had done so already. He and a friend engaged a steam yacht, the Saxon, manned by a crew of Scotch whalers, which landed him on the island with six weeks' provisions. The ice closed up, and the Saxon was unable to get back at the appointed time to pick him up. For a few weeks there was considerable anxiety among his friends, but he was brought to Europe by some Samoyedes.  day evening on the body of a young woman named Farley, wife of a Folkestone trades- man, who cut her throat, severing arteries and dividing the larynx. A verdict of suicide during temporary insanity was returned The Coroner commended the younger sister of the deceased, aged 16, for her courage in entering the room by a ladder when three men refused to do so. A Blind Pianist.  is not long ago since Viscount Hinton, the eldest son of Earl Poulett, aroused some interest by starting as an organ grinder. Another of these aristocratic musicians is depicted in our artist's sketch, Mr. Edgar M@usgrave, a blind gentleman, who was at first rumoured to be the son of a baronet. He has been round the West-end lately, seated in a  The Conference on light railways, which was convened by the Board of Trade, opened on Thursday at W@hitehall. By the time the proceedings commenced, very few of those w@ho had been invited and whosese fames have been published had not arrived. @Mr. Brice, President of the Board of Trade, occupied the chair, and amongst those also present were Shaw-Leievre, Sir J. Hibbert, Sir M. Hicks-Beach, Mr. @Mandella, and @Mr. Chaplin. ried at the age of 24 in 1847. Her husband was then a wild young fellow, and, before ye@ars and responsibility had so@bered him, their life was not altogether peaceful But @the Princess, who is very appro- priately called the@@ German Mrs Glad- stone, has devoted herself so smoothing her husband's path in life, by watching carefully over his health and comfort, and making his home a haven of st, to which @he might turn for peace amid the storms of politics. Here was a home life, and though she had great abilities she never took any part in public affairs. Of late years she had been a great sufferer, and once or twice recently she seemed at death's door. But again and again, as soon as the great@est suffering@ were over, she was about again, ordering her household, presi@ding at table, bright, uncomplaining, ever watchful. @@@British and Irish Taxes. The Financial Relations Commission con- tinued its sittings in Dublin on Thursday. Sir Joseph McKenna stated that the imposition of the income tax on Ireland as a uo for the remission of certain annuities had resulted in Ireland paying ten millions more than the capitalized value of these annuities. The Government of Great Britain had failed to carry out the Act of Union as it equalised the taxes of Irela@nd a@nd England without ascertaining whether the taxable capacity of the two countries was equal.u playing a cottage piano. A companion, in a slouch hat, green goggles, and a cape@d ulster, collects the coppers of the charitable. The piano bears a placard stating @that @he has, through no @misconduct of his @own, lost estates worth £2,000 a year. It appears that he is the son of the Rev. George M. Musgrave, Lord of the Manor of Shilling- top, Beds., grandson of Mr. George Musgrave, who was High Sheriff of B@ in 1836, and nephew of Mr. Henry Musgrave, J.P., late of the Langham Hotel. In 1862 Edgar married, succeeding his father at the Manor House. He was a resident up to 1870. His mother was the daughter of @Mr. Alfred Oakes, who died at Bombay. The widow came to the Manor House to live with the Musgrave family, and died there, and was interred in Shillington Churchyard. @Wh@en Edgar @Mus- grave left Shillington they had three chil- dren, Horace, Philip, and Ethel. At this time they had a man living with them, who was known as the Spiritual Doctor, and whose purpose was to recover Edgar Mus- grave's sight. His wife has now taken up her abode at the @Manor House. There is much sympathy at Shillington for Edgar Musgrave, who was for a time organist at S@hillington Church. He is about 63 years of age. At Cambridge Police Court on Thursday @John Alexander Rigby, of Caius College, was tined £14 for assaulting the police and damagingr Mr. Henry A. Jones' play The @Mas- queraders was produced at the Empire @Theatre, New York, on Monday night with great success. There were no less than nine alls for the principals after the card scene.  Prince of Wales and his Royal Highness the Duke of York arrived at Charing Cross on their return from St. Petersburg on Thursday. The Royal party crossed from Dover in the well known steamer Calais-Douvres, but owing to a thick fog which prevailed in the Channel their steamer did not arrive at Dover until twenty minutes after the scheduled time. The special Royal train which is always placed at the disposal of the Prince of Wales by the South Eastern Railway Company was in waiting. His Royal Highness was met at the pier by Sir Myles Fenton, the general manager of the South@ Eastern Railway Company, who travelled up in the same train. The Royal train left Do@ver Pier at 10.47 and despite the thick fog which prevailed along the whole route it arrived at Chaing Cross at 12.31, the journey only taking one minute longer than the officials had arranged. A consider- able crowd had collected to await the arrival of the train, but only a privileged number were permitted on the platform. Among the first to arrive at the station to meet the Prince was the Duke of Cambridge, who was followed a few minutes afterwards by H.R H. the Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, who drove from Clarence House, not having been previously informed of the delay. Among the others on the platform were General Sir Charles Fraser, V.C., General Keith Fraser, Sir Michael Biddulph, General Dunn, Lieutenant of the Tower of London, General Sir Henry Havelock, Sir Francis de @Winton, and Sir Charles Cust, the comptroller and equerry to the Duke of @York. As the Prince of Wales stepped from the saloon he was warmly greeted by the Duke of Coburg @and the Duke of Cambridge. His Royal Highness appeared to be in the best of health and not the least fatigued by his trying journey. He was wearing a short black overcoat with black felt hat. The Duke of York, wearing a light grey ulster, also appeared extremely well. After talking a few moments with his brother the @Heir Apparent warmly shook hands with Sir M. Biddulph and General Fraser and the other military gentlemen who were on the platform. He then, accompanied by the Duke of York, entered the Royal carriage which was in waiting and drove to Marlborough House. As soon as his carriage entered the station yard the crowd outside, which was mostly com- posed of well-dressed gentlemen, raised a cheer, which his Royal @Highness continually acknowledged by bowing from the carriage window. TO  has been sent to the police in the larger market towns, respecting a fraud curried on by street vendors. As is well-known, the late extra- ordinary cures in this district have attracted widespread attention to the medicine by which they were effected, Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People, and it appears that street and market-place vendors have been detected fraudulently selling large quantities of loose pills under Dr. Williams' name. It cannot be too widely known t@hat Dr. Willi@@ams' Pills are sold only in wooden boxes, enclosed in a pink wrapper, bearing the full name @Dr. Williams' Pills for Pale People, and also anything else offered, either by shopkeepers or others, as Dr. Williams' is a fraud for the detection of which the manu- facturers will pay a cash reward. Should any doubt exist, the best plan is to send the price in stamps, without anything extra for postage 2s 9d-or 13s 9d for six boxes to Dr. Williams' Medicine Company, 46 @Holborn- viaduct, London @The genuine pills are never sold loose, or by the dozen or hundred under any circumstances, and no tradesman can pu@t up the same formula as some pretend Dr@ Williams' Pink Pills are a proved cure for rheumatism, neuralala, ataxy, paralysis, locomotor ataxy, St. Vitus' dance, nervous headache, scrofula, chronic erysipelas. @c. They are not purgative, but restore pale and sallow complex@@ions to health, and are a specific for female troubles, while in men they effect a radical cure in all cause from worry, over work, or excess of any nature. Mr. James Weatherby was buried on Thursday in the churchyard of the parish church at Walton-on-Thames. There was a very large attendance of friends, and the blinds of every house in Walton were @drawn down. The chief mourners were Messrs. John Weatherby brother , John Weatherby son . Miss Weatherby, Mr. and Mrs. E. Weatherby. Messrs. C. T. Weatherby, J. H. Weatherby E. M. Weatherby, J. T. Weatherby, and W Weather@ DELICIOUS TEASE Stores Hare Street, Strand, Calcutta. Indian Office@ Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. Tea and Coffee Sale Rooms Mincing-lane, LONDON, E.C. Wholesale Tea Blending and Duty Paid Stores @Bath-street and Cayton-street, LONDON, E.C. Bonded and Export Stores, Peerless-street, LONDON, E.C. Coffee Roasting, Blending Stores, and Essence Manufactory, Old-street, LONDON, E.C. Wholesale and Export  Nelson Place, LONDON, E.C. Fruit Preserve Factory Spa-road, Bermondsey, LONDON, S.E. GENERAL OFFICES BAT@@H-STREET, CITY-ROAD, LONDON, E.C. LOCAL@ 173@ FORE-STREET. PLYMOUTH 24, TH@
 Two Only, Large Size Length of Rockers, 72 inches Height of Hor@se, 33 inches-27s 6d each. These low prices for cash to e@ﬀect an immedlate Sale. T. J@ONES, 6 TO 16, NEWPORT-ROAD, MIDDLESBROUGH.  national ruin as the penalty of neglect of those prophecies, all assume that Her Majesty's Government are deliberately determined not to maintain the navy at its proper strength, and yet are all quite well aware that there is no evidence whatever in sup- port of such an assumption. In the present state of the world, and so long as inter- national disputes are left to haphazard set- tlement by the nations concerned in them, instead of the maintenance of peace@@ being regarded as a primary duty laid upon all collectively, British Governments must preserve in e@@ﬃcient shape and strength the means of successful defence and it is perfectly notorious that neither Mr  Government nor any other will neglect that duty. But it suits the grumblers, and it agrees with the party purposes of the Unionists to attack, under the guise of an exalted and enthusiastic patriotism, the Government of the day, for an alleged policy which they are not pursuing and have no intention of pursuing. That a great English party are capable of acting on @ﬂagrantly false pretences is another little nut to crack at Christmas time. Mr  we observe, attributes the defects of the Government to a lack of imagination. They do not, through this defect, foresee the time when loud and ominous the roar of a ruined nation will roll to their ears, or when the empty- bellied mob will rave its curses on the statesmen who betrayed them while, wait- ing for the spoil, the peoples of the world watch the last struggles of its mightiest Empire as vultures watch a dying bull, till at last the necessities of Nature force us to a dishonour worse than death. This is a doleful picture, and especially so if we are to assume, with Mr  that the nations of the earth are a set of vultures greedily waiting for our spoil. Are we, then, so utterly alone and friend- less among the nations, and are they so utterly degraded as to be little better than banditti ? Happily there are signs to the contrary, for whatever may be the disposi- tion of the governing classes the peoples are developing every year a more brotherly spirit, and every year war becomes more di@@ﬃcult to make without the consent of the peoples concerned.  Air-tight Tins. @For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.  Promotes the healthy action of the bowels. Bone-forming and @ﬁesh-producing.  Well adapted for Children@@@@@@. Aged People, and I@@nvalids. -Brit. Med@ Jnl@. Carefully prepared and highly nutritious. -Lancet.  CASE. A fatal stabbing case occurred in Digbeth, Bir- ming@ham on @Saturday night. A quarrel arose between some men drinking in the Pavilien Vaults, and they suddenly left the house. In a momentary scu@ﬀle a young fellow named Met- calfe fell to the ground, and died almost imme- diately from a terrible sta@b in the throat in@ﬂicted by a man not clearly identi@ﬁed, who got away. ALLEGED MURDER. A sad tragedy has occurred in Bolton, as the result of which an Irish Constabulary pensioner, named James M'Derby, is in custody on a charge of murdering his wife. The parties, it appears, have@ lived unhappily together, and only a few weeks ago the woman was sent to prison for neglecting her children. On Saturday they quarrelled, owing to her having mis-spent some money, and M@'Derby became so aggravated that he kicked her repeatedly. The unfortunate woman sustained such terrible injuries that she expired in a few minutes. SHOCKING FATALITY AT BILLINGHAM. The Stockton police received information on Saturday of a shocking burning fatality at Billingham. A Mrs Hildrey, aged 92, a widow, living by herself, was visited the previous evening by her granddaughter, who left the old lady apparently in her usual health. Upon going to visit her again @on Saturday morning, she dis- covered her grandmother su@ﬀering from horrible burus about the head and body, to which injuries she succumbed in about ten minutes. It is sur- mised the clothing of the unfortunate woman had got accidentally ignited.  named J. B. Cooper, of Sutton Courtney, Abingdon, was handling a revolver in his apartments in South Cli@ﬀ-street when one of the barrels exploded accidentally, it is believed, and the bullet entered his head and caused death. BU  mother's milk from birth- The child @has thrived exceedingly.  and Cheapest.apest. Sold everywhere. @NEAVE@S @@FOOD.-Wholesale of the Manufac-@@ @@@turers, J. R. Neave Co., Ford-ingbridge, England. k158 SORE THROATS CURED IN A FEW HOURS BY GARGLING WITH   use a better Gargle than Condy's. -Sir  M.D. Directions Free by Post from CONDY'S FLUID WORKS, 62, TURNMILL-STREET, E.C.  about 3.30, a six-roo@med house in Ladywell-road, Lewisham, was destroyed by @ﬁre. The occupier, named Newnham, his wife, and six children were sleep- ing in the building, but all escaped except John Newnham, aged eight years, who had got under the bed. Fireman Roach rescued the child, but it quickly succumbed. Roach was   dinner at the Comet Hotel. Bro. A. J. Day, N.G.A., pre- sided, and Bro. W. @H. Plews, V.G.A., occupied the vice-chair, the others present being Bros. J. Hutchinson, @P.D.G.M., R. Wilson, @D.C.S., J. @S. Wood, B.J., together with Mr Outwin, Mr A. Ness, Mr T. Ness, Mr Foster, Mr Cape, Mr Hill, and Mr W. Cooper.-After the usual toasts were duly honoured, Bro. Plews proposed Success to the Queen Victoria Lodge. -Bro. W. Grundon secretary responded, and said the lodge was in a pros- perous condition.- Success to the Darlington Equalised District, proposed by the Chairman, was responded to by Bros. J. Hutchinson, P.D.G.M., and R. Wilson, D.C.S.-The rest of the evening was spent in harmony and con- viviality, the following brothers contributing to the enjoyment of those present -B os. Carter, Walsh, Hutchinson. Day, Wilson, @and others. Mr Hon@neyman  CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY. The a@ﬀairs of the Newbottle and District Co- operative Society are daily assuming a more encouraging tone, and the liquidator Mr H. R. Bailey anticipates having the present society out of liquidation and the new society launched by the ensuing summer. The sales have not su@ﬀered to such a degree as was anticipated, the month's sales realising £3,788. The appeal to the various other co-operative societies is being steadily responded to. SCOTCH MINERS' WAGES. A telegram from Dalkeith states that as the result of a meeting between masters and men at Newbattle it w@as de@ﬁnitely arranged that the whole of the men would return to work, the masters to permit a @ﬁve days' poliey to each of the miners who, as a body, have at the same time agreed to t@ake their idle days in sections, and so keep the pits open eleven days per fortnight. The Lothian Coal Co., Limited, have at the same time conceded the 20 per cent, advance which which had been conceded the other workmen after their nine weeks' strike.  and acceptable addition to salad plants in the winter. We value the Broad-leaved Batavian variety more than any other salad plant we possess from November until March. We grow it largely and exclusively. The Green Curled is pretty, but not so useful as this excellent broad-leaved sort. The plants grow very large, and are very hardy. Like other endives, they require tying up a fortnight before being used, and a number ought to be tied up now for use during the latter part of this month and throughout December. Gather the leaves all together at the top, bind them round, and tie them close with a piece of matting, and the centres will soon become tender and cream- coloured. We always tie them when quite dry, and as the rain cannot penetrate to the centre easily when the leaves are tied at the top we do not lose many plants from damp. They will bear a few degrees of frost, but in very severe wea@@ther, or just before this, the plants should be lifted, placed in cool frames, and covered over with lights. When frames were not@ available we have sometimes placed numbers of them close together on the inside border of a cool peach house, and they keep uncommonly well there. So long as they can be kept dry there is little danger of their decaying.  When a cabbage is at its best there are few things in the way of culinary vegetables that excel it for delicacy of @ﬂavour, and when obtainable ill ﬁrst rate condition nothing is more acceptable during April and May, before the ground gets dry. It too frequently happens that owing to summer droughts cabbages lose the delicate @ﬂavonr for which they are so highly esteemed, and other things becoming more plentiful, the cabbage is refused admittance to the@@ dining-room during the summer months. Those who are expected to furnish a supply early in the season, should lose no ti@me in making a  two o'clock on Christmas morning a @ﬁre was discovered in a room at Solberge Hall, a distance of three miles from Northallerton. The hall is tenanted by Mr @R. Clayton Swan, the master of the Sinnington Foxhounds, but at the time of the outbreak Mr and Mrs Swan were on a visit to Mrs Swan's mother, Mrs Geo. W. Elliot, at Scruton Hall. The @ﬁre had originated in the library, and it spread rapidly. The North- allerton and Thirsk @ﬁre brigades were summoned, but unfortunately the supply of water was prac- tically nil, and the e@ﬀorts of the @ﬁremen were directed towards saving t@he servants' quarters and the stabling and other outbuildings, but the hall was completely gutted, only the bare walls being left standing. The blaze was seen for miles away. The damage done amounts to several thousands of pounds, and includes the jewellery and hand- some wedding presents which were presented to Mr and Mrs Swan on their marriage a little over a year ago. Fortunately there was no loss of life, as the servants were rescued from the burn- ing building in their night clothes. The @ﬁre seems to have originated in the library, but nothing de@ﬁnite can be ascertained to account for t@he con@ﬂagration. The property is partly in- sured. LATER PARTICULARS. The @ﬁre has done damage estimated at £15,000. Of this amount, Mr R. Clayton Swan's loss is estimated at between £7,000 and £8,000, and the loss of Mr John Hutton, J.P., the chairman of North Riding Quarter Sessions, the owner of the hali, a like amount, which is only partially covered by insurance. The origin of the @ﬁre is said to be due to a pipe from a stove in the library having come in contact with the beam in the @ﬂoor beneath, and in consequence of its being overheated had ignited the beam. The @ﬁre was discovered by Mrs Bond, who acts as wet nurse to Mr Swan's infant daughter, who slept in the bedroom adjoining the library. The North- allerton Fire Brigade rendered e@@ﬃcient service in saving the servants' quarters and in preventing the @ﬁre from spreading to the stables. They were, however, not able to utilise a new steam @ﬁre-engine which they have recently purchased in consequence of its not being complete. A plentiful supply of water was obtained close by. ANOTHER ACCOUNT. Yesterday morning Christmas Day Solberge Hall, near Northallerton, was destroyed by @ﬁre, the hall being completely gutted, and all the valuable furniture consumed. The @ﬁre was @ﬁrst discovered by a nurse-maid named Mrs Bond, a little after two, when she had occasion to rise in order to fee@d an infant. On looking out of the window she discovered that the adjacent part of the hall, namely the library was in @ﬂames. She immediately gave the alarm to the other servants, and to Mr Achril, secretary to Mr R. C. Swan. It was then found that the @ﬂames had got such a hold of the library that it was hopeless with the means at command to save the building. Word was sent at once to Northallerton and to Thirsk for the @ﬁre brigade, and also by a rider to Mr and Mrs R. C. Swan, who have gone to Scruton Hall, the residence of Mr George W. Elliot, M.P., Mrs Swan's father, on Saturday to stay over the Christmas. The Northallerton Fire Brigade arrived on the scene about four o'clock, and meanwhile the servants in a great state of alarm were devoting all their energies to saving their own goods, which they threw promiscuously from the windows. The @ﬁre rapidly spread in an easterly direction, as the wind was blowing from the west. From the library, where there was a most valuable collection of books, the @ﬂames communi- cated to the drawing-room, which had lately been handsomely furnished by Mr Swan, thence the@ @ﬁre penetrated to the boudoir above, which had also been splendidly furnished by Mr Swan since his marriage. The @ﬁre was then seen in the bedroom in the east corner, and afterwards in the other bedroooms in the front of the hall, the last rooms to catch @ﬁre being those in the basement in the front of the hall, namely the dining-room, morning-room, which had also recently been newly furnished at great expense by Mr Swan. The Northallerton @ﬁre brigade was under the superintendence@ of Dr. Tweedy, there being present Mr Geo. J. Robinson, Dr. Bartrum, Jas. Ward, and Jas. Guthrie, as members of the brigade, who, with other assistance, devoted their energies to preventing the spread of the ﬁre to the servants' dwelling, abutting on the north of the hall. For this purpose Dr. Tweedy and others pulled o@ﬀ the tiles from the servants' house to enable them to direct a stream of water in the @ﬁre below, and thus con@ﬁne the @ﬂames. The Thirsk Fire Brigade, under the conduct of Mr George Best, arrived at about 5.25 a.m., and rendered good assistance. The  be made, a somewhat dry spot will be better than a damp one. Plant from 20 in. to 24 in. apart according to the  the country is over@ﬂowing with the genial sentiment peculiar to the Christmas season, friend exchanging with friend kindly greetings, and the organs of the press vieing with each other in their expression of the doctrine of brotherhood and mutual kindliness, the Times is @steadily pursuing its crusade on behalf of @an increase in destructive armaments ! With unconscious humour the Thunderer on Christmas Day publishes half a page of appeals to the fears of the nation in order to frighten it into a clamant demand for an inde@ﬁnite addition to the force of the navy. How many of us realise the grim signi@ﬁcance of such a conjunction, or feel in our inmost souls as we ought the horror of the war passions which still ravage humanity nearly two thousand years after t@he birth of the Prince of Peace ? Moral progress is indeed slow and the preachings of the Church universal fall on careless cars. Christian folk seem indeed to have interchangeable consciences in these matters. Our eminently respectable Houses of Parliament the other day trans- mitted to the French Chamber their friendly sympathy with the members on the occasion of a desperate attempt to commit wholesale slaughter among them by means of an explosive bomb. Very agreeable and creditable is this graceful incident in inter- national a@ﬀairs but somehow its geniality and kindliness are a little marred by the fact that a great party in both our Houses of Parliament are clamouring for an enor- mous provision of murderous instruments for the express purpose of slaughtering as many Frenchmen as possible. With how little wisdom indeed is the world governed ! and small as is the public stock of wisdom it is Gargantuan compared with the thin and almost invisible streak of Christian principle which is tolerated in the region of international a@ﬀairs. Among many things urgently necessary to be realised at each recurring Christmas is the fact that the rulers of the world in their public capacities are not Christians, but are animated by feelings and principles which are the reverse of those exempli@ﬁed and laid down by the Prince of Peace. Men who would not willingly defraud their neighbours of a pin or injure a worm in private life will defend and even applaud wilful rapine and bloodshed if it is only on a large scale, and though there are signs of the gradual spread of purer and higher ideas of the duty of nation to nation, t@hat spread is slow indeed. The agitation for the increase of the navy is not the more respectable because it is not honestly conducted. The gentlemen who are pouring forth their prayers for  asfternoon Lady Curzon and her son had a narrow escape from injury by the over- turning of a four-in-hand on Chandlers' Hill, near Viscount, Curzon's residence near Uxbridge. The reins got twisted and the coachman was called to disentangle them, but somehow the coach overturned, throwing Lady Curzon and her son to the ground. The coach fell on the coach- man, breaking six of his ribs, one of which it is feared has pierced the lungs. He lies in a pre- carious state. Lady Curzon and her son escaped with only a shaking. DEATH OF MR HENRY PETTITT. @Mr Henry Pettitt, the dramatist, died on Sun- day from the e@ﬀects of typhoid fever, contracted about a month ago. Most of his plays, which were principally melodramas, were written in collaboration with other authors. Among the best known of his works are Queen's Evidence, Black Flag, The World in collaboration with Mr Merritt and Sir Augustus Harris, Taken from Life, Pluck Pettitt and Aarris . In the Ranks Pettitt and Sims , Human Nature Pettitt and Harris , Harbour Lights Pettitt and Sims . The Bells of Haslemere Pettitt and Grundy , Hands Across the Sea, Faust up to Date Pettitt and Sims , The Silver Falls, London Day by Day Pettitt and Sims , A Million of Money Pettitt and Harris , A Woman's Revenge, now being played at the Adelphi, and A Life of Pleasure Pettitt and Harris , which was produced at Drury Lane and has been transferred to the Princess's. Mr Pettitt commenced writing at the age of 22, when he was master in the classical department of the North London Collegiate School, Camden Town. During the past seventeen years he turned out more than a hundred plays, and was probably the most successful playwright of his day. AN IRONCLAD IN A HURRICANE. A GALLANT RESCUE. Lloyd's agent at Queenstown telegraphed on Saturday afternoon H.M.S. Resolution, Capt. Hall, from Portsmouth to Gibraltar to join the Mediterranian @ﬂeet, has arrived at Queenstown and reports left Portsmouth last Monday, and on last Tuesday, when in the Bay of Biscay, en- countered terrible gales, shipped heavy seas, and @sustained damage about the deck. Several of the crew were injured, and a man was lost over- board. The Resolution left Portsmouth in com- pany with the gunbuat Gleaner, but lost sight of her in the gale, and did not afterwards see her. A Portsmouth correspondent telegraphs that numbers of letters have been received there from the o@@ﬃcers and crew of H.M.S. Resolution giving an account of the gale which that ship encoun- tered in the Bay of Biscay. The chief defect of ships of this class is said to be that in a heavy sea they roll to a fearful extent owing to the absence of bilge blocks but if these were pro- vided in su@@ﬃcient width there would be no Government dock broad enough to accommodate these vessels, consequently when the Resolution encountered the gale she rolled over to such an extent that the lifeboat, which is hoisted 3@0ft. above the load line, went under water and was carried away. Everything movo- able on deck was washed away, while the waist of the ship su@ﬀered damage by the immense weight of the seas that fell there but what @ﬁnally induced Capt. Hall to return was a report from the engineers that the water which lodged between the barbette had poured in tons into the stoke hole, and was putting out the @ﬁres, and as few more seas would have completely extinguished the @ﬁres there was no alternative but to put back. A Queenstown correspondent telegraphing on Saturday night says @@It is di@@ﬃcult to obtain the names of the drowned seamen, as the crew are not allowed ashore. An o@@ﬃcer just lauded believed the name was Rmith. He states that two men went overboard at the same time, and the captain of the gunboat Gleaner jumped overboard to the assstance o th@e men, and with t@he aid of the lifeboat from the Resolution, saved one. The other disappeared. H.M.S. Resolution will leave for Plymouth on Sunday, there being insu- ﬃcient coal  and other similar large growing kinds will require 24 in, Ellam's Dwarf from 18 in. to 20 in. This latter has for some years been our favourite variety, as it turns in quickly, and makes few outside leaves. Let the plants down to the lower leaves in the soil, and if dry, water well. Take care to set the plants @ﬁrm in the soil. There is a knack of @ﬁrming them expeditiously by inserting the dibble a little aslant towards the plant, and @giving it a slight t@wist towards it this will fasten the plant @ﬁrm @m the soil at one turn. Keep the ground clear from weeds by frequent hoeing, preferably with t@he Dutch hoe, because the weeds are not trodden down its use.-Garden @Work.  If the various bulbs intended to beautify these in the spring are not planted, no time should be lost in getting them in. Unless covered by 2 or 3 inches of soil frost may injure them, and as a further preventive the beds may well be surfaced over with not less than an inch of cocoa-nut @ﬁbre or leaf soil. Spring-@ﬂowering plants not being available, the beds may be made to present quite a bright appearance by a judicious arrangement of short neat pieces of variegated hollies, box, aucuba, mahonias, and tree ivy. All our carpet beds have a groundwork of hardy plants, such as sedu@m glaucum, antennaria tomentosa, veronica repens, variegated anabis, and herni- aria, and these as well as the golden pyrethrum, are not disturbed, but the @ﬁgures are @ﬁlled in with ajuga reptans rubra, small beetroot, sem- pervivum californicum, neat sprays of coloured ma@honia, box, hollies, aucuba, and ivy, with small cupressus, retinosporas, and iris foetidis- sima variegata, the three latter being used for dotting or single prominent plants. In this manner a very pretty e@ﬀect is easily attained, and which appears to give more pleasure than even the summer occupants did. Other con- spicuous beds are also decorated in a somewhat similar manner, this bring preferable to naked soil, and obviating the employment of plants that would look dull all the winter, and would, as a rule, @ﬂower when there was no one here to see hem.  nothing but the bare walls left. Most of the furniture belonged to Mr Jno. Hutton, J.P., the landlord, and t@he late occupier of the house, which he lot f@urnishe@d to Mr Swan. All the valuable presents given to Mr and Mrs Swan on the occasion of their wedding were destroyed, together with valuable pictures and furniture, by which @Mr Swan has lost about £8,000 value of goods, covered by insurance. The rest of the furniture and house, belonging to Mr Hutton, will make the total damage to something like £15,000 to £20,000. Among the pictures was one by Haywood Hardy, the celebrated animal painter, which cost over £1,000.-Inspector Cook, Thirsk, Mr Jno. Hutton, Mr R. C. Swan, Mr and Mrs Cook, and Misses Elliot, were early on the scene. The members of the Northallerton Fire Brigade would have attempted to have saved some of the furn@iture from the front rooms, but were pre- vented, as it was deemed dangerous. The damage is partly covered by insurance. SIR RAYLTON DIXON COMPANY. Sir Raylton Dixon Company inform us that they have not received four additional orders, and that unfortunately they can employ very few men for some time to one  The condition of Lord Hamilton of Dalzell is u@nchanged. The Speaker of the House of Commons is progressing favourably, but his unable to leave London. Three men were seriously injured in a gas explosion in a saloon bar at  Hill, Camberwell, on Saturday evening. The annual distribution of beef to work@@m and aged cottagers on the Prince of Wales's Sandringham Estate took place on Saturday. T@he remains of t@he late Mr @Stanhope will be removed from Sevenoaks to day, for interment at Revesby Abbey, Lines., on the following day. Mr Registrar Brougham has refused to rescind t@he receiving order r@ecently made against Captain O'Shea, described as of Victoria-street, West- minster, and elsewhere. At Leicester, on Saturday, a dyer's labourer named Tolley, living in Blueboar-lane, Leicester, shot his wife in the head with a revolver and then cut his throat. Both are dead. @The couple had lived unhappily together. A Dublin man named Ryan, a dyer, has been arrested in Dublin on a charge of wife murder. The parties had been drinking, and quarrelled. Some hours later the room was entered, and the woman was found dead and the walls, @ﬂoor, and furniture bloodstained. Florence Elboroug@h or Bailey, the barmaid at the Plough and Harrow, Hampton-street, Birm- ingham, who was shot by her lover on t@he 12th inst., died in the hospital on Christmas Day. Her assailant, who endeavoured to commit suicide, is still in a weak condition. Mr Hugh Nettlefold, of t@he @ﬁrm of Nettlefolds Limited , and of Halld, Edgbaston, Bir- mingham, died on Saturday morning. He was a nephew of Mr Joseph Nettlefold, the senior partner of the @ﬁrm with which Mr Joseph Chamberlain was so long connected. The Lord-Lieutenant has reprieved the Rev. George Gri@@ﬃths, on the ground of insanity. The rev. gentleman was sentenced to death at the recent Cork A@ssizes for the murder of his mother at Ki@lﬂynn, on June 22. The sentence has been commuted to one of penal servitude for life. At Ulster Assizes on Thursday John and Thomas Donnelly, farmers, Collahana, county Armagh, who were found guilty on Wednesday evening of conspiring to murder their cousin, Jas. Thompson, in April last in order to get his share of a fortune of £5.000 left by a relative, were sentenced to seven years' penal servitude. The Editor of the Medical Annual  po   used to add to t@he solu- bilit of many the  at present sold, but that@ in  AT WEST HA@RTLEPOOL. A @ﬁre which resulted in considerable destruction of property broke out on the premises of @Mr. W. Johnson, tobacconist and hairdresser, of Stock- ton-street, West Hartlepool, about half-past six on Saturday morning. The @ﬁre was discovered by a youth name@@ arratt, who gave t@he alarm at the @ﬁre station. Police-Inspector Cruicksbank, Sergt. Collison, a@nd P.C. Long@sta@ﬀ soon arrived on t@he scene, but the @ﬁre was burning so furiously that they were unable to render any assistance. Capt. Allen, who proceeded to the spot with a detachment of men, quickly succeeded in putting out t@he @ﬁre. The stock, which included a large quantity of tobacca, cigars, and @Christmas goods, was entirely consumed, and the promises seriously damaged. Mr Johnson, who estimates the value of the stock at £600, of which £400 is covered by insurance, did not reside on the  the weather on Christmas Day was beautifully @ﬁne@ in the morning-quite unseasonable, as some would say but those who had to go with an empty stomach and shoeless feet would appreciate the splendid springlike morning better than the rigours of frost and snow. In the afternoon, however, the weather changed, and rain fell heavily about three o'clock. Several bands were early astir, playing appro- priate melodies, and at all the places of worship the special Christmas services were well attended. The usual Christmas dinner was given to the inmates of t@he Workhouse, 874, t@he largest number on record, partaking of an excellent repast of roast beef and plum pudding, in serving which the Master and Matron were assisted by Councillor W. J. Bruce, County Councillor @Sey- mour, Councillor Keay, Mr Allison, Mr D. D. Wilson, Dr. Longb@otham, Mr @Wm. @Hinton, and others. Beer a@nd lemonade were supplied by Mrs E. J. Weighell, of the Cleveland Bay Hotel@@ tea and tobacco were supplied to the adult inmates by the Guardians, who also provided fruit and sweets for the youngsters. Messrs Garnet Fish also presented a supply of hero beer. In the evening St. Barnabas Choir gave a musical entertainment to the inmates.-As custo- mary, the Vicar of St. Hilda's Rev. J. K. Bealey distributed a quantity of provisions amongst the aged poor of the parish. The annual distribution of groceries and beef among the poor of Grangetown was made on Friday to the amount of over £50, through the liberality of Mr James Eadie, of Burton-on-Trent, and Mrs David Evans, of Cleveland House, Grangetown. STOCKTON AND THORNABY. The weather was exceptionally mild and springlike. Late on Christmas Eve a strong south- westerly wind prevailed, and heavy showers of rain fell. The streets were, however, somewhat thronged by youths, and bands of carol singers were to be heard for several hours through- out the two boroughs. Services were held on Christmas Day in a number of the churches, and a general holiday was observed. At the Workhouse the usual Christmas festivities took place, and the Workhouse presented a cheerful appearance, having been extensively decorated. At breakfast-time all the women and children received Christmas cards, the gifts of Messrs A. G. Taylor, photographers, Stockton, and Mrs Denton, of Norton. Shortly after noon the whole of the inmates sat down to the usual Christmas dinner, consisting of roast beef, plum pudding, c., with beer for the adults, and lemonade, generously given by Messrs H. H. Wren@@ Co., for the younger portion of the inmates. The dining hall was tastefully deco- rated with mottoes, festoons, @c., thanks to the skilful hands of the boys' warden Mr Hardy , Mr Gillston, the inmates, and others, under the supervision of the Matron Mrs Hatcher . A number of outside friends assisted in the carving and generally looking after the wants of the inmates, the following being present -The Mayor and Mayoress Councillor and Mrs Langley , Mr Henry Smith, J. P. vice-chairman of the Board of Guardians Councillor W. M. Watson, J.P., and Master and Miss Watson, Mr @R. W. Robinson and the Misses Robinson, Mr Whittle Guardian , Rev H. Fisher. Mr George Power, Mr Joseph @Po@wer, Mr W. T. Pescod, Mr and @Mrs J. Duntho@me, Mr C. Hatcher, Mrs Gregory, Mr T. H. Marshall, Mr Storrs, and the o@@ﬃcers. After the substan- tial dinner had been done ample justice to, oranges were distributed to the juveniles given by Messrs A. S. Holmes Co. and tobacco and sn@uﬀ among t@he adults.-The proceedings ter- minate@@d by a hearty vote of thanks being accorded to the Mayer and Mayoress for their presence@ on the motion of Councillor W. M. Watson, seconded by @Mr @Henry Smith, and in reply the Mayor addressed a few kindly words to the inmates.-A vote of thanks was accorded to the ladies and gentlemen who had kindly assisted.-At the Victoria Grounds there was a fair assemblage of spectators to witness a football match between the Stockton and Darlington football teams. It had, however, to be dis- continued by reason of the rain that fell during the aft@ernoon, no score having been made on either side. The inmates of the almshouses were kindly remembered by Mrs Wright, Mr Jordison, and Councillor and Mrs Harrison, who sent generous gifts of various kinds. DARLINGTON. Christmas in Darlington was commemorated in much the same manner as in previous years, though the heavy rains and high winds of Sun- day and Monday were far from what is usually understood by t@he term Christmas weather. Until a late hear on Saturday night the main streets of the town were unusually thronged, and the purvey@ors of Christmas fare, Christmas cards, and presents drove a thriving trade. Sunday was not marked by anything out of the usual course until late at night, when numerous parties of carol singers visited the dwellings of many of @the principal residents. The Christmas Day morning services at t@he churches and chapals were well attended and several special services and sacred concerts took place in the afternoon and evening. At St. James's Church on Christmas Day there were 97 c@ommunicants at the early and later celebrations. A mission service, illustrated by lantern views, was held in the evening in the parish roam, the subject being The Story of the Nativity. On the Sunday evenings during Advent similar  after the service in the church, were held, and were largely attended. The subject of the addresses was The Story of Creation, Redemption, and Sancti@ﬁca- tion, as set forth in the Apostles' Creed. Each address was illustrated by views from the paint- ings of the great masters. Th@e inmates of the Darlington Workhouse, to the number of 20, had their Christmas dinner of roast beef and plum pudding, provided by the Guardians. The dining hall had been prettily decorated under the superintendence of the Master and Matron Mr and Mrs Hurworth . Amongst those present, and w@ho assisted in serving the dinner, were His Worship the Mayor Councillor G. W. Rortlett , Miss Bar@tlett,   K.  Christmas dinner of roast beef and plu@m pudding, with beer, took place. @The walls were tastefully decorated by the Master and Matron. It may be state@d that the whole of the good things were provided by Mr @and Mrs Bouson, who were accompanied by Mr Jones Guardian . BISHOP AUCKLAND. Christmas Eve was wet, changing to @ﬁne with bright moon. Christmas Day was beautiful, with bracing breeze and bright sky, followed later by rain and then @ﬁne weather. Services were held at the churches and at the Wesleyan Chapel, and season decorations were observable. Salvation and Volunteer bauds and waits were about as usual, and the holiday generally was decorous and uneventful. The annual feast to the poor children to@ok place at the Temperance Hall, though unfortunately, to the general regret, Mr and Mrs H. Foster of Hill Crest, were absent through indisposition. For many years Mr Foster has virtually been the founder of @t he has raised the subscriptions and as of the whole. Between @ﬁve and six hundred guests assembled in relays, giving @@the customary cheers for all friends, receiving from Mrs Foster a pretty card each, an@d being handed, further, an orange. Amongst the helpers were Councillor Lingford, Mr and Mrs @E. Lingford. Mrs J. T. Proud, Mr and Mrs F. V. Foster, Miss Barton Winchester , Misses Cleminson 2 , Gibson, Wardle, Macnamarra, Alderson, Turnbull, We@ar@mouth, Savage, Mr and Mrs G. Dyson, Mrs Rase, Messrs W. @H. Foster, Sydney Foster, Jonathan Jackson, M. Braith- waite, M'Clymont, T. V. Smith, Ralph Hull, Jas. Robinson, H. and W. Simpson, F. Dyson, and Henderson, Messrs Caningham who pur- veyed the luscious beef , W. Kilburn, Joshua Moseley. Cooking, baking, @c., was adroitly done by Mrs Dyson, Mr Cuningham, and Mr J. Henderson.-At the Workhouse the inmates had a Royal dinner, a large, towering Christmas tree, laden with toys, occupying the centre of the dining-hall. Councillor Peverell was a visitor, and gave useful assistance at the table. The house is beautifully decorated, the greenery coming from the Windlestene and Whitworth Estates.-The Olive Branch Division of the Sons of Temper- ance held their annual festival at the Temperance Hall, and there was an over@ﬂowing tea. waited upon, in relays, and very cheerfully, by Mrs and @Misses Gibson 2 . Miss Gibson South-road , Mrs and Miss Gedney, Mrs and Miss Selby, @Mesdames Souther@on, Rawe, and Hodg- son, and Clough, and Miss Davison. At a crowded entertainment afterwards Bro. Joshua Moseley, Alliance secretary at Birmingham, pre- sided, and gave a spirited address on the principles of the order, also giving the connective readings in a service of song.-Bro. T. Clough. secretary, read a report disclos- ing remarkable facts, and showing that whilst sickness and death had been stalking abroad everywhere the @hand of a@ﬀliction had fallen lightly on them as a society. Fourteen new member@ had been admitted, and the year closed with 265, contributions ranking at £357. Applause. Sick pay had absorbed £175 10s, and one wife's death £8. The death rate of members was nil. Ap- plause. Management expenses left a net pro@ﬁt of £95. Of cadets 38 had been ad- mitted, and the year end showed 122 on the books, Here again there was a@ pro@ﬁt-namely, £19 10s-making a total pro@ﬁt on th@e year of £115. Applause  Applause. T@he lives numbered 480, and only one death had occurred -or a rate of only two per thousand. Applause. Over the @ﬁve years the death rate, with an average  was held after tea, which was ad- dressed by the Revs. W. H Gorham. T.Stephenson, J.  gave a gr@@and concert before a large company. A spec was held on Christmas Day in the New Shildon Wesleyan Chapel, preacher the Rev. J. Water-@@ house.@ -The Primitive Methodists at Old@@@ Shildon had likewise a largely attended tea.  a lecture afterwards delivered by Mr  Middl@esbrough.-At All Saints' Church,  Shildon, the usual appropriate services w  to good congregations.  customary services were held in the @Parish Church and Wesleyan Chapel in the morning. In the evening the Wesleyan Vigilance Band held its annual meeting  day school, when addresses were given by M@essrs Sproates, Norwan, and Hillary, the chair being occupied by Mr Gradon. At the  supper took place. At the Primitive Chapel an entertainment consisting of songs, solos, speeches, and recitations was given on behalf of the Sabbath School the recently- formed string band also took part in the enter- tainment. A co@ﬀee supper closed the proceed- ings. During the day the band of the @Salvation Army played selections throughout the town, and the Good Templars also sang  Christmas Eve the Baptists held special services during t@he early part of the day, and a service of song at night entitled The Bells Across the Snow. The readings were @by Mr A. Westwood, of Bishop Auckland condne- tor, Mr G. Morgan harmoniumist, Miss P. Jenkins. On Christmas night, in the same place, an entertainment was given, consisting of songs, solos, recitations, c. Mr Joe Sykes and party gave the sketches entitled John Mason's Rescue, and A Domineering Wife. Songs by Miss Blackburn. Durham Miss Henderson, Witton Park and Miss Laweyers and Miss Mus- grave. High Grange, were rendered at intervals. @Mr Peacock and Miss P. Jenkins presided at the harmonium.  Saturday after- noon a sale of work and Christmas tree was held in the Primitive Methodist Chapel. The opening ceremony was performed by Dr. Hewitson, of St. John's Chapel, accompanied by Mrs Hewitson, who were introduced by the Rev. R. Walton. The stall-holders were -Mrs R. Walton, Mrs Moore, Mrs John Kidd, Mrs Jos. Kidd, Mrs Freeman, Mrs Lee, Mrs J. Walton, Miss Maddison, Mrs Furness, Miss Herdman, Miss Kidd, Misses Forster, Miss @Lonsdale, Messrs Barkus, Furness, Moses, T. Walton, and J. Forster. A public tea and supper were also pro- vided, to which a large number of people sat down. The chair, @un@der the leadership of Mr Freeman and Mr Kidd, rendered a choice selec- tion of anthems, choruses, @c. The total pro- ceeds were £87 13s 9d. TEESDALE.-According to usual custom the volunteers mustered in uniform, headed by the Middleton Band, and accompanied by the Hon.n. Lieut.-Col. French and Lieut. Murray, and marched to @St. Mary's Church, where the service was fully choral, the sermon being preached by the Rev. E. Swallow, of Durham, in place of the rector, who has been @suﬀering from in@ﬂuenza. The church was @nicely decorated, the work of t@he Misses Catterick and Armstrong and Messrs Hetherington.-The Baptists hel@d their annual festival and anniversary services, commencing Saturday e@vening, when a sacred concert was given in the Hude C@hapel @by the choir and Miss L. Cairns and Mr W. Thompson. Recitations were also @given by the @Messrs Charles and Howard Charter. @Chairma@n, Rev. W. @H. Gorham, of South  Shields, who also preached the annual sermons  In the afternoon the Sunday school@@ children gave recitations, and the choir sang sacred anthems. On Monday the annual festival  DEATH OF MR ROBERT WADE. We have to-day to record t@he death of an old Darlington standard,d, and one of the most familiar @ﬁgures   market-day, who succumbed  at his residence, Little Burdon, on Christmas Day, in his 78th year. Mr Wade t a toher with@@ Mr Frank Theakstone, grandisther of the@ pre- sent head of the business in North@gate, and on the conetusion of his term of apprenticeship com- menced business on his own account at Barton. Some thirty years ago he relinquished business at Barton and became the occupier of t@he farm, on which he died@ at Little Burdon. Mr Wade was heid in high repute by the agriculturists of the district, and was especially noted for his excel- lent results in feeding stock, having for years past taken prizes at the Christmas fat stock shows at the Fair@ﬁeld and other marts. He held many public o@@ﬃces, being the senior member of the Darlington Board of Guardians, to which he was returned as Guardian for Merton Palms in 1857. He sat on the Finance. Assessment, Work- house Visiting, Asylum Visi@ting, and School At- tendance Committees of the Board of Guardians and @he was also Chairman of Darlington Rural Sanitary Authority, i@n connection with which body he held seats on the Finance, Food and Drugs, and Legal, Coc@kerton, Blackwell, Hur- worth. Middleton-St.-George, and Heighington Committees. An old member of the Darlington Chamber of Agriculture, he was chairman of the Council of the Horse and Dog Show. He was also vice-chairman of the Darlington Highway Board. Mr Wade had been four times married, and leaves a widow the sister of the late Mr Joseph Robinson, at one time proprietor of the King's Head Hotel and one son, John, who occupies a farm at Sadberge. The funeral will take place at Sadberge on Thursday. Mr John Wildsmith has been unanimously re-elected the operatives' representative at the Consett ron and Steel Works and one of the ﬁve candidates, M@r Hy. Lodge @the @@te dele- gate , has been appointed representative of the  the Arbitration  bodies for t@he ensuing pear. T@he  R. M. Wilkes, Miss Wilkes, Councillor T. B. Swinburne, Mrs and Miss Swinburne, Councillor J. Howden, the Misses Howden, Councillor T. James, Mr R. Rogers, Mr W. Hogg Whessoe , Mrs and Miss Hogg, Mr Isaac Smith, Mr and Mrs R. R. Smith, Mr W. Robinson, Mr F. Theakston, @Mr and @Mrs  the Rev. A. Boot, Mrs Boot, Rev. A. Wild, Rev. R. Allan, Miss H, Barron, Mr A. Davidson, Mr T. Mais, Inspector Spar@ks N.S.P.C.C. , Mr J. W. Alnwick, @@C.-After full justice had been done to the good t@hings provided, Mr C. H. Leach the Clerk read a letter from Mr Theodore Fry, M.P., expressing regret on behalf of himself and Mrs Fry at not being able to be present on that occa- sion owing to a previous engagement.@-@Edward Earle, one of t@he inmates, then proposed a vote of @thank@s to the members of the Boa@rd for  @hind  providing auch a feast.-The propo- sition was carried by three hearty cheers.-The Mayor then addr @@inmates, and in the course of his remarks said it was the desire of every member of the Board to make the  happy as possible at this festive season. Be also stated that be and the This was the average rate over 27 years. Applause. -Other friends present included Messrs R. Rutherford. W. Harrison, J. Lincoln, J. Clough, R. Curtis, Burnip, Bro@mbridge, Southeron, @c.-At South-road Chapel there was a sacred concert-Miss M. Crawford soloist. Mr G. Dyson manipulated a series of lime- light views, and Mr J. Ramsden presided. At Councillor Lingford's orphanage the cosy rooms were brightened with toys, decorations, and presents, of which the children received a large share. The Baptist and Primitive ministers, and Mr Nichol, Mr Wood, c., were visitors and speakers.-@T@he annual performance of Mrs Rayner's music pupils took place in the Edgar Memorial before a select company. Solos and duets were undertaken with success by Misses F. Burden, L. Row@ntree, Hutchinson, Heslop, Wil- kinson, Kilburn 2 , Redman, L. Woo@d, Rayner 3 , M. Balgarnie, Frank, E. Braithwaite, I. Wood, Goese, M'Callum 2 , Livesay 2 , and Masters Proud, G. Gage, and Harburn. Miss Rowntree is a pupil of Mrs Inch, of Darlington. The High School choir sang at intervals. The Wesleyans held a sale of work in the British Schools, opened by one of the ministers. A public tea was also in the programme, and the bye-attractions included carol concert, magic lantern, musical drill, and maypole, under the direction of Mrs Chinn, c. RIPON. The Mayer and Corporation, in t@heir robes of o@@ﬃce, attended service at the Cathedral, which was decorated. The Dean preached an appro- priate sermon from St. Matthew's Gospel, ii.. 22 At the afternoon service the Christmas portions of the Messiah Handel were sung from, For behold to Glory to God. An address was given by the Rev. S. Reed, precentor. A special service was held at Trinity Church, and carol services at Zion Chapel and Allhallowgate Mission Room Trinity parish . The Workhouse inmates had the customary special fare. The Bishop of Ripon preached at the Cathe- dral on Sunday night in aid of the navvy mission. NORTHALLERTON. The Northallerton Ri@ﬂe and Temperance Bauds perambulated the town. The inmates of the Cottage Hospital and the Workhouse dined o@ﬀ special fare. At All Saints' Church the usual charities were dispensed by the Vicar and church- wardens, and there were special services, for which the church was appropriately decorated. RICHMOND. The various places of worship were decorated. At t@he Parish Church Miss Winks sang the solos in the carols, and the Rev. A. C. Briggs rendered The Star of Bethleham. Midnight mass was held at the Convent, and during Christmas Eve the Corporation Band played. The usual treat given by the Guardians was held at the Work- house, which was prettily decorated, and the repast was served up in splendid style by Mr and Mrs Brierley, the master and matron. Assisting at the tables were Captain, Mrs, and Miss Geraldine Walker. Mr C. G. and Miss Tate, Major and Misses Mason, Dr. Carter and Mr Carter. Mr Wensley and the Misses Hunton, @Mr Robert Simpson, @@Mr John Hall, and Mr William @Struthers. The Marchioness of Zetland gave tea, @c., besides inviting the inmates to Aske Hall on Thursday next Mrs Roper gave tea, sugar, tobacco, and cakes Miss Barclay, Christmasm followed. A Christmas tree and a stall of work f@ormed a great attraction to the festival. On Saturday evening the Middleton Band held a social evening in the Lead Company's schoolroom, which was well patronised. The Pride of Middleton Lodge of Druids held their annual festival on Saturday. A full report will appear in the Auckland Chronicle of this week.  and Mrs G. Y. Blair have again shown their generosity to the inhabi-tants of Hutton Rudby and district by giving their usual Christmas gifts to the villagers. Most of the families received a piece of beef, also clothes, oranges and sweets for the mothers and children. The workmen at the hall and on the estate have also been presented with a piece of beef and a plum  services were held in the Parish Church. The inmates of the Work@house had special fare. Beer was sent by Mr M. Forster, J.P., Bishop Middleham @@tobacco, sweets, oranges, and apples by Dr. Sheraton and Mr Calvert oranges by Mrs La@ndreth fruits, sweets, and toys by Mrs R. Robinson, Mrs Colt-@ @man, Mrs Adamson, Miss Vi@ctors, and Mr Walker wines, Mr Fletcher, Sedge@ﬁeld, and Mr Archer, South Shields sweets by Mrs W. Coates. The arrangements were ably carried out by Mr and Mrs Bowes the master and matron , and the children of the Workhouse had each purchased a pretty card and presented them to Mrs Bowes, as a mark of their appreciation of her kindness. WINGATE.-A Christmas tree and sale of work was opened in the Literary Institute, Wingate@, on Christmas Day by Mrs Flectham, the proceeds being in aid of the Sunday school building fund@@ of the Primitive Methodists. A full report of the proceedings will be given in Friday's South  @Mercury.@-@The railway employés of the district held their s@econd annu supper on Saturday night at t@he Queen's Hotel, Wingate. After the removal of the cloth, Mr Beatty was voted to the chair, and a most enjoy- able evening was spent. During the evening Mr W@m. Elliott was presented with the emblem of Amalgamated Society of Railway @Servants for services rendered. GUISEROUGH.-At the Workhouse on Christmas Day the inmates had an excellent dinner of roastst bee@f and plum pudding, provided by the Gnar- dians. After dinner the men were supplied with tobacco and fruit, and the women and children with fruit and sweets.-The Primitive Methodists held a public tea in the afternoon, which was fairly attended. THIRSK.-Special services were held at the Parish Church and at Sowerby. The usual Christmas@ fare was partaken of at the Work- house, the dinner being served up by Mr and Mrs Woodh@all in enjoyable style, whilst the following were present to wait on the inmates -@Mr Charles Mc. C. Swarbreck, the Misses Swarbreck, Dr. Longford, Mr Robert Holyday, Mr Farndale, Miss Farndale, Mr G. H. and Master Hyam, Mr John Harriss, Miss and Master Amos, Miss Smith, and Miss Walton. BEDALE.-At the Parish Church the usual charities were distributed by the vicar and churchwardens, while Sir F. A. Milbank and other gentle@men distributed their Christmas gifts. Special services were held at Bedal@e Parish Church on Christmas Day. As usual Capt. Car- ter, the chairman of the Bedale Bench, gave each Mayoress intended giving the inma@tes another dinner on New Year's Day. Loud applause. He then moved a vote of thanks to the o@@ﬃcers for the excellent way they had carried out all the  for decorating the dining hall so tastefully. @Applause. -The motion was carried by  -The Workhouse Master @Mr  on behalf of  and in doing so said they wished to make the inmates as comfortable as possible.  Swinburne, the Rev. A. Boot, C@ouncillor J. Hewden, and Ald. Wilkes also delivered brief addresses. Beer was supplied by Mr Isaac Smith, the licensed victuallers, and Mr H. Warwick lemonade by Mr W. Boh oranges by Mr J. Anwyll and Mr R.  cards by Messrs Bailey Co ,  Carter, and @Mr T. Wood holly, @c., by @Mrs D. Dale and Col. Wilson Cli@ﬀe tobacco by Capt. Swinburne and Mr J. Howden clay pipes by Mr Boston  K. Wilkes and Councillore 20 inmates dined o@ﬀ roast beef and@@@@ plum pudding, while the o@@ﬃcers were regaled with a goose. LEYBURN.-The Leyburn and District Brass Band paraded the town, and special services were held at St. Matthew's Church, which was @appro- priately  Barracks the customary festivities were held. The Marchioness of Zetland has reopened her soup @kitchen, and on Saturday @Her Ladyship distri- buted warm winter clothing amongst the aged poor of the old town. The Misses Yeoman, of Prior House, have been during the past two days distributing winter comforts to several aged people in Richmond, and on Thursday they will entertain t@he whole of the Infant School children. BARNARD CASTLE. Late on Christmas Eve and during the early hours of Christmas morning rain fell heavily, preventing the usual amount of carol singing. Special services were held in St. Mary's Church  places  c., by Mrs W. J. Stewart and  house. The Christian Lay Church held the annual tea on Christmas Day, when a good number partook of the good things provided by Mrs C. Appleton, Mrs Patterson, Mrs J. Mackie, Mrs Wake, Mrs @Robinson and Mrs Laws. After tea an entertain- ment was presided over by Alderman W. Harding. Songs were ably rendered by Messrs M'Nicholl, Cummings and Smith, and Messrs C. Reynolds and E. J. Laws mandoline solo by Miss Barker recitations by Messrs Llewellyn and Whatmough, and instrumental selections by Miss Wilson and the Cockerton quartette. Miss F. Smith and Mr W. Heslop presided at the piano. THE HARTLEPOOLS. Christmas was observed here in a quiet manner. On Christmas morning rain fest heavily, and the weather was intensely cold, yet a large number of persons attended the early communion services held at @both  churches were beautifully decorated with  Holy Trinity Church,  tastefully decorated. The members of the F Company 2nd Vol. Batt. D. L. L. marched to and from the former chur@ch in the morning, headed by their hand. The usual treat of roast beef and pl@um pudding was given to the inmates o@f t@he Teesdale Union Workhouse, and the festivities were continued in t@he evening. A public entertainment was provided at night by the young people of the Primitive Methodist Society. Mr A. Hilton presiding over a large and appreciative audience. Part I. consisted of miscellaneous items, and a Christmas cantata, The Frost Queen, made up a g@o@od second par@t, the characters being ably represented. The third part was a performance by twelve members of the Boys' Brigade by kind permission of the Rev. A. H. Ford . Some interesting drill exercises were gone through in a most creditable manner, under the command of Sergt. Quelch, of the 3rd D.L.I. SHILDON.-At the Parish Church of St. John's special and appropriate services were held, the o@ﬀertory being devoted to the fund for the sick and aged. The Wesleyan Methodists at Old Shildon had their annual bazaar, its object on this occasion being to raise funds for the Sunday School Building Extension Fund. Mr Kellet, of Bishop Auckland, appropriately discharged the opening function. Mesdames Marquis, Reed, Ritso@n, Brown, Richardson, and Jameson, the Misses Ritson, Mabey, Brunskill, James, and Tyson presided over the various stalls, and were ably assisted by Mrs Ritson, Watson, Robson, Muggerldge, Coates, Smedloy, and Brabben. A grand concert was given in t@he evening by the New Shildon Wesleyan Choir, @under the leadership of Mr W. Metcalfe.-The Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants had their annual tea, and afterwards ad- journed to a concert given by the Tem- perance Brass Band, under the leadership of Mr W. Gibbon, the proceeds of tea and concert to be given to @the orphan fund. A sale of work was opened on Saturday in the New Shildon Wesleyan Schools, and continued on Christmas Day. On Saturday On Sunday morning, the extensive warehouse of Messrs Richardson @@Collitt, general and fancy goods dealers in Prince Regent-street, Stockton, was burnt. About 1.40 a.m. P.C. Feat@her@stone observed that the building was on @ﬁre and promptly communicated with the @ﬁre brigade. The @ﬁre station being situated in the next street the brigade, with engine, hosereel, and steamer, under the command of Capt. Appleby, were able to be on the spot within a minute after the information was received. The building was in a mass of ﬂames, and the e@ﬀorts of the brigade were mainly directed to saving the adjacent property, and having a good supply of water they were able to con@ﬁne the con@ﬂagration to the warehouse. Nearly the whole of the stock was burnt, and the building was considerably damaged, nothing but the walls remaining. It is not known how the @ﬁre originated. The stock is insured. NORTHERN IRON TRADE. THE OPERATIVES AND THE SLIDING SCALE. A special private meeting of the operative delegates of the North of England Board of Conciliation and Arbitration for t@he Iron @and Steel Trade was held in the Mechanics' Institute, Dar- lington, on Saturday, to consider the o@ﬀer of the employers made at the last meeting-the renewal of the sliding-scale on the old basis. The whole of the works of the North of England were represented, and Mr William Kettley e- sided. There was a strong feeling that certain action of the Stockton Malleable Company since the o@ﬀer of the employers made it di@@ﬃcult for the operatives to favourably consider the employers' o@ﬀer or to accept it. After a long discussion, however, it was unanimously re- solved that the operatives could not accept the o@ﬀer of the employers until the action of the Stockton Malleable C@ompany was thoroughly gone into, and a guarantee given that in the event of the workmen accepting the o@ﬀer of the employers, it should be strictly adhered to, and that no @ﬁrm should endeavour to induce the workmen to accept a private reduction during the con@tinuance of the scale. A resolution was also passed to the e@ﬀect that the question of the shortening of hours in the iron and steel mills in the district should be dealt with. 3 T
 The order was instantly obeyed, but all the e@ﬀorts of the crew were ine@ﬀectual. The deceased sunk and was seen no more. No appearance of insanity was attached to him, as far as those on board had opportunity of ascertain- ing during the voyage, but he was observed to be exceed- ingly low-spirited and restless. On Friday night he partook of tea with the rest of the passengers, and he sat in the cabin all night. On Saturday morning he took breakfast alone. At about two o'clock in the afternoon he had a small bottle of porter and a biscuit, and after the other passengers had dined, he dined by himself on deck, and soon after he had @ﬁnished his meal, he committed himself to the waves. He was about 5 feet 8 inches high, had a round face, appeared to be 30 or 31 years of age, and was dressed in a Taglioni coat, light drab trousers, light waistcoat, light handkerchief, and Wellington boots. According to the best of the recol- lection of Mr Barrow, the clerk of the William Darley, the deceased had a watch in his pocket at the time he jumped overboard. A certi@ﬁcate was handed to the Lord Mayor, signed by the whole of the passengers, to the e@ﬀect that every exertion was made by the captain to save the unfortunate man. A passenger was booked as Mr H. Coll, Norwich, who was supposed to be the gentleman who drowned him- self, as a box, with his name upon it, was left on board, and had not been claimed. There was also a light leather port- manteau, a coat, and @ﬁshing tackle, unclaimed. The de- ceased was said to have destroyed himself just as the other passengers had all moved to the opposite side of the vessel to look at the Gazelle steamer, which was rapidly passing along.  carrying out the provisions of the late Act of Parliament relating to the Turnpike trusts in South Wales, some of the gates in the neighbourhood of Brecon have already been removed, the tolls reduced, and the distances between other gates are about being equalized. Among the latter the turnpike-gate near the ninth mile- stone on the Merthyr road is to be removed, and a new toll-house erected this side of the Storys Arms. This build- ing was last week in course of erection, and in a few days expected to be @ﬁnished, but on Monday morning last, upon the workmen going to their work, the new toll- house had disappeared, and the men were struck with astonishment at the industry displayed by the parties who had in so short a period levelled their work.-' Hereford Paper.'  most painful interest has been produced in this town by the perpetration of a premeditated and brutal outrage upon the person of a highly respectable inhabitant, whose death is universally deplored. The name of the deceased is Henry Thom, who carried on business as a hatter. The accused is Richard Archer, for some time managing clerk to a solicitor. The origin of the quarrel between the parties arose out of some proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court relative to the a@ﬀairs of a person named Edward Edwards, against whom a @ﬁat had been issued. The creditors having resolved to oppose Edwards, the deceased Mr Thom was selected to conduct the opposition. It seems that Archer was a personal friend of the bankrupt and though Thom did not in any way exceed the duty which he was called on to perform, he pro- voked the hostility of Archer, who repeatedly proclaimed his determination to have revenge. These threats he found opportunity for carrying into fatal e@ﬀect on Saturday evening last, when, meeting the deceased in the market- place near his own door, Archer, after a few angry words, struck Mr Thom two heavy blows, which knocked him down, causing contusion of the brain. The deceased was carried home in a state of insensibility, and he died on Sunday morning. Archer has since absconded.  Mon- day morning last, nearly @ﬁve hundred men in the Cock- burnspath district, who have received from 14s. to 16s. per week, struck for an advance of wages to 20s. This demand being refused, the men proceeded along the line towards Berwick, and compelled every man whom they met to stop @his work and join them. Where their commands were not promptly complied with, the mob carried them into e@ﬀect by force, and, in consequence, the movement was joined by a great number of men along the line. About 1,400 men altogether struck work-an alarming state of things cer- tainly, when we consider that neither in this town nor within twenty miles is there any adequate military or civil force. About 400 of the men remained at Ayton, and several hundreds at other places. On Wednesday morning a number of the men assembled at the hiring place for s@hearers, but would not allow them to be hired except on their terms. The wages o@ﬀered by the farmers were 1s. 8d. per day, but the navies in@sisted that they should receive 3s. or they should not be hired at all. The magistrates, we understand, having taken into consideration the defenceless state of the town, and the facility with which such a body of men might commit any outrage, have resolved to make an application for a detachment of military to be stationed at Berwick. On Wednesday a few of the men returned to their work on Mr Dodds's contract, and on Thursday morning the greater number of Mr Evans's men also re- turned. They have not received any advance of wages.-' Berwick Warder.'@ young man, named Joseph Brammey, residing at Had@ﬁeld, in Glossop, Derbyshire, and employed at the Dinting Vale print works, belonging to Mr Potter, was lately found in a pan containing 300 gallons of caustic ley, which was at a boiling heat. How he came in is not known but it is supposed that he went to the top of the pan to see if the ley was boiling, and, standing on the edge, must have fallen into the horrible grave. The deceased had not been seen about the premises after twenty minutes past ten o'clock. At a quarter past one Robert Stubes went to stir up the liquor in the pan, when to his great alarm he discovered some of the deceased's clothes, the body being quite eaten away by the liquor. Assistance was immediately procured, and search made for the remains of the deceased. The liquor in the pan was thrown away, and at the bottom of the pan nothing but a few bones could he found, and these looking as if they had been in the ground a hundred years. The leather and soles of his clogs were eaten away a portion of his clothes, that were made of cotton, had sustained little injury and the irons and nails that had been in his clogs were found. The deceased's teeth were discovered all separate. Strange to say, the deceased's heart was found by itself quite sound. All that was collected of the body did not weigh 7lbs., and if these parts had remained in the liquor three hours longer not a particle would have been left. The deceased was about 17 years of age.-' Derby Mercury.'  week a man named David Bol- lison, about 27 years of age, by trade a butcher, living in Br@ton gate, was engaged in carrying a young calf to the slaughterhouse, and whilst proceeding along with the animal upon his shoulders, it suddenly turned its head round, and caught his throat with its teeth, and did not release its hold until the unfortunate man was strangled. He was conveyed home, and a surgeon immediately tried every means to restore him, but to no e@ﬀect. The sudden- ness of the attack caused the unfortunate man to fall to the ground, and having hold of the animal's feet with both hands, prevented him extricating himself from his anta-  -@On Monday night Mr Green made another ascent in his Nassau balloon from the gardens of Cremorne house, and it being announced that he would be accompanied by a lady and a leopard, a very @la@a@@ny were assembled, there being nearly 12,000 persons present. At half-past six, a female, together with a young male leopard, the property of a Mr White, a trainer of beasts, and the keeper, made their appearance upon the grounds. A car had been prepared for the occa- sion, and attached beneath the regular one. The three having entered it, Mr Green placed himself in the upper car, when they proceeded to make several ascents to the height of the trees, at the conclusion of which the aeronaut made preparations for his @ﬁnal ascent with Mrs Green, Mrs C. Green, Mr Salter, Mr Hardwicke the magistrate , Mr Litlejohn, c., in all eleven persons. The balloon having been released, took a south@-westerly direction, in which course it proceeded for some time, when entering another current of air, it returned towards the gardens, over which it hovered for some time, and @ﬁnally it descended at Notting hill, about half-past eight, and Mr Green returned to the gardens.  -@The following strange story @has appeared in a French paper - Madame C-, wife of a mercer, who has lately been successful in railway operations, has been for a length of time enamoured of play, and during the past winter she lost almost constantly. Her husband at last refused to pay a sou of her play debts, so that the lady gambler was often in di@@ﬃculties. She returned home a few nights since, after having lost a large sum at lansquinet, and remained up pondering by what means she could contrive to discharge her obligations. Whilst thus occupied she heard a noise in an adjoining closet. She rose at once, and opening the door found the eldest servant of the family endeavouring to pick the lock of an armoire-a glace in which she kept her jewels. The man was thunder- struck at the appearance of his mistress, and prayed her most earnestly not to inform against him. An idea sud- denly occurred to Madame C-. ' Listen to me,' said she. ' It is you who have already robbed me on several occa- sions the act I have caught you in proves it. You will be sent to the galleys if I inform against you. There is one way of escaping I want 10,000f. You have a quantity of picklocks in your hand. If you open your master's safe and take out that sum for me, and no more, I shall say nothing about what I have seen to-night.' The conditions were hard, but the man consented. Scarcely, however, had he introduced one of the instruments into the lock of the safe, when a loud detonation was heard, and the man fell to the ground, dreadfully wounded by a ball from a pistol, which M. C--had got @ﬁxed inside to prevent robbery. M. C--arrived in a minute after, and was the @ﬁrst to lift up the man, who still had the picklocks in his hand. The commissary of police being sent for, received from the thief a full state- ment of what had taken place. He was removed to the Hospital St Louis, where he lies in the utmost danger. Madame C--, who denies most strongly the truth of the man's declaration, has withdrawn to her family. FIRES.-On Wednesday morning a @ﬁre, which was not subdued until property to a considerable extent had been destroyed, broke out in the back workshops belonging to Mrs H. Fowler, an extensive skin-dyer, situate at No. 12 Eagle court, St John's lane, Clerkenwell-a densely popu- lated and closely packed locality. The workshops were composed of brick and timber they were two stories high, and between sixty and seventy feet long. They were entirely burned down, and the valuable stock in trade contained in them consumed. Several other houses and workshops were greatly injured, and the whole damage will amount to a con- siderable sum. Mrs Fowler was insured, but the majority of the other su@ﬀerers were not so fortunate.-On the same morning the premises belonging to Mr Gilham, painter and glazier, Tottenham court road, were discovered to be on @ﬁre. The @ﬂames originated in the front shop, and passed from thence to the back parlour on the same @ﬂoor. Owing to the large quantity of stock in the place, which was of a highly combustible nature, the @ﬂames spread with the greatest fury, speedily enveloping the ground @ﬂoor. The inmates, after much trouble, managed to get out of the burning building, but they had not time to dress themselves. The whole of Mr Gilham's stock was consumed, and the ground @ﬂoor burned out. Unfortunately the proprietor was not insured.-On Sunday night a @ﬁre broke out in the premises belonging to Mr Grogan, oil cloth manufac- facturer and japanner, carrying on business in Princes place, Walworth common. It originated in the manufac- tory, a building between @ﬁfty and sixty feet long, which was @ﬁlled with goods, some @ﬁnished and others partly so. This building was burnt to the ground, and the valuable stock  for money  @⅝, and for the account, 98¾ to @⅞ Exchequer bills were ﬁnally quoted 45s. to 47s. pm and India stock, 270 to 271@@. There was no change of importance in the English stock market on Wednesday. The last quotations were-Consols, 98½ to ⅝ for money, and 98¾ to ⅞ for the account India Stock, 270 to 271@@ and Exchequer bills, 45s. to 47s. pm. The funds showed very little movement on Thursday. Prices continued tolerably @ﬁrm, and the chief bargains were the ordinary investments of the public. Consols for money left o@ﬀ 98½ to ⅝, and for the account 98¾ to ⅞ India Stock closed 269 to 270 and Exchequer bills, 46s. to 48s. pm. The funds on Friday were very steady, and this, too, with an extremely dull market. Consols closed 98½ to ⅝ for money, and 98¾ to ⅞ for account. Exchequer bills were @ﬁrm, at 46s. to 48s. pm. India Stock was better supported at 271. South Sea Annui- ties quiet at 97¾. SATURDAY, FOUR O'CLOCK. From the List of Messrs @Wolfe, Brothers, Stock-brokers, Change  COMMERCE AND TRADE. WOOL@-The market in London is steady, and will soon have its strength tested by public sales, for the arrivals are large. During the week ending on Thursday, the imports have been 2,569 bales, of which 1,176 were from Tagauroy, 729 from Algoa Bay, 661 from Germany, and 3 from Belgium. COTTON.-At Manchester the trade in cotton has greatly im- proved during the last fortnight, no doubt attributable to the @ﬁne harvest weather, but the export demand has not improved. At Liverpool the sales on Thursday amounted from 5,000 to 6,000 bales, 1,500 being on speculation. The market is rather quiet, but beyond this there is no change whatever to notice. The sales of the week are Friday, 8,000 Saturday, 2,500 Monday, 4,000 @Tuesday, 6,000 2,000 on speculation and Wednesday, 6,000 2,000 on speculation total, 26,500 bags.  MARKETS. From Messrs Gillies and Horne's Circular.  8.-There was a short supply of Essex wheat this morning, the most of it of the new crop, the condition better than last week considerably, and the market was decidedly in favour of the seller. There was no change in barley all the large consumers are waiting for the new crop. Oats are 6d. dearer than last Monday Archangel were much forced on the market last Wednesday, which has brought buyers forward to-day. Beans are @ﬁrm. Peas of all kinds are the same as last week. Flour is  FUNDS. On Monday the funds had not recovered the depression of the three preceding days the amount of business transacted was very limited. Consols closed at 98½ for money, and 98¾ for the account. India Stock left o@ﬀ at 270 to 271 and India Bonds, 62 to 64 pm. On Tuesday the funds were rather @ﬁrmer. Although the amount of business transacted was not extensive, still, as the pressure @of@ sales had passed, there was more buoyancy in prices. It is now understood that the cause of he depression of the previous two or three days arose from the disposal of stock to settle the accounts  12.-Good old wheat is in demand at 1s. over Monday's rates. Barley is about the same as on Monday. Oats are 6d. dearer than on Monday, with a quick demand. Beans are @ﬁrm. White and blue peas are scarce, and a shade dearer than on Monday. The @ﬂour trade is not better than on Monday. IMPORTATIONS Into London from September 7 to September 11, both  average price of Brown or Muscovado Sugar, computed from 
 FROM LON@DON TO CAM- BRIDGE, NORWICH, AND YARMOUTH. A meeting was held on Wednesday, at the East India and Colonial Club rooms, in Su@ﬀolk-street, @Pall-mall, for the purpose of considering the propriety of establishing a railway to join the Northern and Eastern Railway, at @Bishop's Stortford, to Norwich and Yarmouth, by Cam- bridge, Newmarket, and Thetford. The meeting, which was both numerous and highly respectable, was attended by the Marquess of Douro, M. P., W. L. W. Chute, Esq., M.@P., Benjamin Smith, Esq., M. P., Mr. Alderman @Farebrother, Isaac Jermy, Esq., Recorder of Norwich, Samuel Bignold, Esq., Edward Varnish, Esq., General Blachford, Major Head, Captain Kerr, Richard Broun, Esq., George Robinson, Esq., William Taylor, Esq., W. J. Taylor, Esq., James W. Smith, Esq., Thomas Ham@mond, Esq. Yarmouth , J. @L. Cufaude, Esq. Yarmouth ., @J. Harman, Esq., chairman of the Brighton Railway, -@M'Lean, Esq., William Drake, Esq. East Dereham @, Ms. Mann @@Nor- wich , William Clark, Esq. Thetford , Chistopher Span- ton, Esq. Attleborough , Richard Lloyd, Esq., A. A. H. Beck with, Esq. governor of the Corporation of Guardians of Norwich , William Andrews, Esq., Hype Clarke, Esq., William @Laxton, Esq., James Sowerby, Esq., Joseph Parkes, @Esq., W. M. Kitton, Esq., of Norwich, with nu- merous other in@ﬂuential  Railway Company. Mr. BIGNOLD rejoiced to learn from the report of their talented engineer that the contemplated line of railway would not interfere at all with the parks or estates of pri- vate gentlemen, and he hoped that circumstance would conciliate many in their favour. He alluded to that statement in the report more particularly, because a very intelligent and in@ﬂuential gentleman, who he believed was honoured and respected by all who knew him Mr. Richard Gurney , had expressed, through the press, his hostility to railways, because they cut through and de- stroyed valuable estates, but when that gentleman ascer-@ tained that Mr. Rastrick's line would commit no such in- jury, he Mr. Bignold @@hope@ that his extensive and pow- erful in@ﬂuence would be exerted in favour of an un- dertaking that could not fail to prove highly bene@ﬁcial to his fellow-citizens cheers . Mr. RASTRICK wished to state that there was one nobleman's park a@ﬀected by the line, namely, Lord Bray- brooke's, but the act obtained by the Northern and Eastern Counties Railway Company would obviate all di@ﬀiculty in that respect.  Esq., recorder of Norwich, and chair- man of the county quarter sessions, rose to move the next resolution. In doing so he observed that a meeting had been advertised to be held at Norwich next Thurs- day. To the requisition calling that meeting were the names of a great number of men of property and  by    and thought that they did not contribute much to the pub- lic convenience but even those persons would agree that a railway to Norwich was necessary when they were made aware of the fact, that those places which had an easy and quick communication with London by means of rail- road had an advantage of which Norwich and Yarmouth had hitherto been deprived, and which proved highly in- jurious to the commerce and agriculture of those popu- lous and important towns hear, hear . The resolu- tion was as follows - That this meeting is impressed with a strong conviction, that unless the county of Norfolk, city of Norwich, and tow@ns of Cambridge, Newmarket, Thetford, and Great Yarmouth, by the immediate construction of a railway to the metropolis, are place@ upon an equality with other parts of the kingdom, where railroads are completed, and in progress, the great agricultural and commercial in- terests of this important district must materially su@ﬀer in the race of competition.  Esq. of Norwich , seconded the resolution. He felt that the railway was necessary for the welfare of the city of Norwich, which stood parti- cularly in need of the bene@ﬁts of a railway communica- tion with the metropolis hear, hear . He had lately had an opportunity of communicating with the leading manufacturers in Norwich, and there was an universal complaint that the manufacturing interest was su@ﬀer- ing greatly in consequence of not having the advan- tage of a railway. The merchants and traders of London could visit York and return to London almost in the time they could now merely go to Norwich. He was therefore prepared to support to the utmost the formation of a railway to Norwich, but he would not lend that sup- port to any project which he was not fully satis@ﬁed was set on foot for the public good. If he could for a moment suppose there was any political object, or any other object in this project than the promotion of public interests and the welfare of his fellow citizens, he would immediately retire from it hear, hear . Two years ago there was a talk of a railway to Norwich, but there was then an unwillingness on the part of the citizens of Norwich to put down their names for shares, because they were ap- prehensive that the project would terminate like the Eastern Counties a@ﬀair-that the railway would be com- pleted for about thirty or forty miles from London, and Norwich left in the lurch. He himself stated at the time, that if they would commence the work at Norwich he would take shares to the amount of @1,000l. He was pre- pared to say the same again and if it could be shown to the citizens of Norwich that there was a bonâ ﬁde inten- tion of connecting Norwich with the metropolis, people of all shades of political opinion would come forward and support it hear, hear . He highly approved of the line now contemplated, and would support it by taking shares, although it would not be in his power, being a commercial man, to take any active part in the management. Mr. Bignold concluded amidst great applause, by seconding the @ﬁrst resolution, which was carried unanimously. B. @@@SMITH, Esq., M. P. for Norwich, proposed the second resolution, and expressed his opinion that the line pro- posed by Mr. Rastrick, the engineer, was a good line. Indeed, he did not scruple to say that he had always been of opinion that a line in the direction of Cambridge would be the cheapest and most preferable. The resolution was as follows - That this meeting are of opinion that a line of railway proceeding from Yarmouth to Bishop's Stortford, by way of Norwich, Wymondham, Attle- borough, Thetford, Newmarket, and Cambridge, will a@ﬀord advantages for carrying out the objects proposed, and may apparently be completed at a reasonable cost, and secure a considerable tra@ﬀic, with a prospect of in- crease, by the junction of railways from the north at Cambridge, and by the completion of branches from Lin- colnshire, Huntingdonshire, Bury St. Edmund's, and other parts of Su@ﬀolk, and all parts of the important dis- tricts of the Bedford Level the towns of Lynn, Swaﬀ- ham, Fakenham, and Dereham, and all the western parts of Norfolk.  Esq., a magistrate of Yarmouth, @and chairman of the Fishing Merchants' Club, seconded the resolution. He was happy to say that in the town of Yarmouth all party feeling with regard to this matter was completely buried in oblivion. Every one must feel the importance of a railway not only to Yarmouth and Norwich, but to the whole country hear, hear, @hear -and he was authorised to state on behalf of the trading and @ﬁshing interests in the town of Yarmouth that they would lend their utmost endeavours to carry the measure into full e@ﬀect cheers . He agreed with Mr. Bignold that the work should be commenced simultaneously at each end, because Norwich and Yar- month had been thrown in the background by the con- duct of the Eastern Counties Railway Company. He understood that the members for Yarmouth were out of town, otherwise, he had ascertained, they would have attended this meeting but he could state for the inform- action of the gentlemen present, that a few weeks ago he had a long conversation with them upon the subject of a line of railroad to Yarmouth, and they both pledged them- selves to use their utmost endeavours to have it carried into operation cheers . Mr. RASTRICK then read the following extracts from an able and elaborate Report, which he had prepared - The line proceeds from Bishop's Stortford to Cam- bridge, thence to Newmarket, Mildenhall, Thetford, At- tleborough, Wymondam, and Norwich to Yarmouth. @@@In carrying out the line, but little di@ﬀiculty will be experienced in getting through Parliament as to the part between Bishop's Stortford and Cambridge, inasmuch as all questions with the landowners have been settled in the act obtained by the Northern and Eastern Company, but subsequently abandoned by them for want of funds. The geological character of nearly the entire line is the @chalk formation, furnishing materials of the most fa- vourable description, both for cuttings and embankments, and the road, when once made, @ma@y be maintained at the minimum expense@@@@@@. The most expensive part of the line is between Bishop's Stortford and Cambridge, and the time required for its completion would be about three years.s. This part of the line has, however, extensive a@dvan@- tages, forming as it does the key to all railroads to the metropolis coming in this direction from the north, as well as from Norwich and all other parts of Norfolk, Lincoln- shire@ Huntingdonshire, Cambridgeshire, Su@ﬀolk, and some portion of the county of Middlesex, thereby insuring a good dividend to the shareholders upon that portion of the capital expended in forming it. The obtaining the proprietorship of this part of the line is therefore most important. No tunnel will be required from Cambridge to Yar- mouth, a distance of nearly eighty miles, and there are no extraordinary deep cuttings nor embankments, and only one viaduct, and no deep ravines or rapid rivers to cross, whilst the materials are of such an excellent quality of cuttings that they may be cut upright, and a large por- tion of the land is of so inferior a quality that its pur- chase will form an inconsiderable item in the expenditure, and the line does not pass through or interfere with any gentleman's park or pleasure grounds, nor in any way passes in an objectionable manner through any  whole line will form an easy and expeditious means of communication from, to, and between Cam- bridge, Newmarket, the @Swa@ﬀhams, Fordham, Soham, Mildenhall, Thetford, Brandon, Harling, the Bucken- hams, Kenninghall, Attleborough, Hingham, Wymond- ham@, Norwich, and Yarmouth, a@ﬀording facilities for branches from Ware, Hertford, Huntingdon, St. Neots, Ely@. Bur@y St. Edmund's, Down@ham, Swa@ﬀham, Dere- ham, Lynn, and thence to Wisbech, Stamford, and the whole of the improving and important district of the Great Bedford Level of the Fens and also forming the natural communication between the metropolis and the contemplated new district of the Great Level of the @@W these populous cities, towns, and villages, there can be no doubt but that the passenger tra@ﬀic along this line will be immense @and the line between Cambridge and Yarmouth can be made in the short space of two years, whilst that from Bishop's Stortford will require only one year longer, so that this entire line will be open to the public in three years. @@@The cost between Cambridge and Norwich is esti- mated at a less sum per mile than any other railway in the kingdom of so great an extent can be made for, this part of line extending for sixty-three miles. @@@The cost between Norwich and Yarmouth it esti- mated at a still less sum per mile this part of the line extending over about eighteen miles, and giving the greatest possible facility to the @ﬁshing inte@@re @ﬁsh to the metropolis and the inte@@@rior of th@e country, and forming t@he most advantageous and  station in the kingdom for the northern foreign mall packets.  also produced an estimate of the expenses of the formation of the line, together with a calculation of the tra@ﬀic from data carefully collected, showing a pro@ﬁtable return to the shareholders for the capital to be invested. The resolution was put by the CHAIRMAN, and carried unanimously. Mr.  @handed to the chairman a letter from the sheri@ﬀ of Norwich, expressing his decided appro- bation of the meeting, and the proposed line of railway. Mr. BIGNOLD proposed the third resolution, which was seconded by E. VARNISH, Esq., and carried unanimously. It was as follows - That John @Urpeth Rastrick, Esq., having produced to this meeting sections and plans ex- tending over such line, and having made a report thereon, showing its great advantages and facilities for execution, this meeting are of opinion that a company should be im- mediately formed for the completion of the same, to be to @be  Mr.y whatsoever hear, hear, hear . For him- self he could conscientiously state that he discountenanced anything of the sort, but before they could expect to en- list the public in their cause, they must satisfy them that they were determined to carry on the undertaking per- fectly independent of all private interests hear, hear, hear . The best way in which they could manifest such a determination was to tender their co-operation to the meeting about to be held at Norwich, to a@ﬀord them every information and explanation in their power, and to unite with them in carrying out the common object. If that meeting desired a little deviation from the proposed line, the object should be to endeavour to meet their view. So if meetings should be held in Su@ﬀolk or Cambridge, they ought to be met in the same spirit hear, hear . The reso- lution which had been entrusted to him was as follows - That having observed with great satisfaction the an- nouncement of a meeting of the landowners of Norfolk, for the purpose of supporting a railway, this meeting re- quests its chairman forthwith to put himself in communi- cation with those gentlemen, it being the opinion of this meeting that it is essential for ensuring the success of so great an undertaking that all interests should co-operate in one united e@ﬀort to obtain its completion. J. HARMAN, Esq., chairman of the Brighton Rail- way Company, seconded the resolution. He was in no way connected with the counties of Norfolk and Su@ﬀolk, but was a London man. He had, however, been engaged in a very large railway undertaking, and having had the plans and sections of the proposed railway to Yarmouth laid before him, and explained by Mr. Rastrick, who had acted with him in carrying out the London and Brighton Railway, he had no hesitation in saying that he fully ap- proved of the undertaking. At the same time he would state his conviction that if they went before Parliament with any decided opposition they would @ﬁnd it di@ﬀicult to get parties to co-operate with them and if gentlemen who were locally interested in the promotion of the railway did not also come forward in such a manner as to convince t@he moneyed interest of London and other places that they were earnest in their object. There ought, therefore, to be the greatest co-operation throughout the whole of the line. He could safely say, having looked at the plans and sections, and the estimates of Mr. Rastrick, and hav- ing devoted some time to his able report, that that gen- tleman had furnished them with an estimate founded on honest principles. Those who embarked in the under- taking need be under no apprehension of not receiving ample remuneration for their capital and trouble. He should be glad to render all the assistance in his power in carrying out the undertaking, but he must @ﬁrst of all be persuad@ed that the gentlemen who had projected it were in earnest, and felt the necessity of a railway.  Esq., Attleborough, stated t@hat he had received a note from Sir Thomas Beevor, ex- pressing his approbation of the undertaking. He had waited on Lord Albemarle, who had told him that his en- gagements would prevent his attending the meeting, but that he was ready to assist the measure by all the means in his power, and his lordship had distinctly authorised him Mr. Spanton to state to the meeting that he was perfectly satis@ﬁed the railway would prove advantageous to his property and the country in general hear, hear . A letter had also been put into his hand by Mr. Cufaude, of Yarmouth, from the mayor of that borough, approving the line, and he could assure the meeting that through- out the district in which he resided Attleborough the landowners were unanimously in favour of the proposed railway hear, hear .  Esq. clerk of the peace of Thet- ford begged leave to state that he had been requested to attend the meeting on the part of Thetford, and to express the concurrence of the inhabitants of that borough in the measure, and their desire to see it carried into full operation. He as the agent of my Lord Ashburton could also state that as the line projected by Mr. Rastrick would not inter- fere prejudicially with his lordship's estate, he Lord Ash- burton would support it. The intended railway would certainly pass through Lord Ashburton's property as well as his own, but he Mr. Clark would cheerfully submit to anything that was for the good of Thetford and the country in general hear, hear . John Deck, Esq., of  line, and that the inhabitants of Bury were anxious to see the main trunk of the railway established, in order that a branch might be carried on to Bury, and that he was convinced the Marquess of Bristol, ever anxious to promote the interests of that borough, would give the undertaking his cordial support hear, hear . Mr. Drake stated that he should not have obtruded himself upon the notice of the meeting but for the obser- vations of Mr. Harman, the chairman of the Brighton railway. Having, however, been in communication with several of the noblemen and gentlemen whose names had been mentioned in the announcement of the meeting to be held in Norwich, and holding letters from Lord Sondes und others of those parties, containing assurances that they were not pledged to any particular line, he felt it due to the meeting, and particularly to those London capitalists who had honoured the meeting with their sanction and presence, to assure them that the requisitionists of the Norwich meeting would ap- proach the discussion of the subject unfettered, and quite prepared to adopt the most practicable and least expen- sive line and, indeed, had they been aware of the great sacri@ﬁce in expense and labour which had been incurred in maturing and perfecting the able plans, sections, and report, which Mr. Rastrick had this day produced, he Mr. Drake felt assured that these gentlemen would not have felt any such meeting necessary. Mr. Drake added that he was also entrusted with letters from in@ﬂuential inhabitants of the important town of Lynn, expressing cordial co-operation in the objects of the meeting, and begging that the extension of the line to that densely populated and wealthy district might not be lost sight of which letters were handed to the chairman. The resolution was then put and carried. Mr. VARNISH proposed the @ﬁfth resolution - That a committee be appointed to arrange the details of the company, and to carry out the views of the meeting, with power to add to their numbers Which was seconded by D. M'LEAN, Esq., and carried unanimously. A. A. H. Beckwith, Esq., governor of the corporation of the court of guardians of the city of Norwich, then moved the following vote of thanks to the chairman - That the thanks af this meeting are pre-eminently due to the chairman for his kindness in taking the chair, and his marked attention to the important business of the meeting and observed that one advantage that would attend the railway would be the employment of a vast number of poor persons, who were at present in a state of the most abject poverty. He had been informed by several manufacturers that the falling o@ﬀ in the staple trade of Norwich was mainly owing to the defect of com- munication between Norwich and the metropolis, as com- pared with the facility of communication between London and the northern counties. It was of vital importance to Norwich that the railway should be completed as soon as possible, and it would prove a great bene@ﬁt not merely to commerce but to agriculture. R. LLOYD, Esq., sec@onded the vote of thanks, which was carried amidst great applause. The CHAIRMAN returned thanks, and observed that he had felt great pleasure in attending the meeting. As one of the representatives of the county, he considered it to be his bounden duty to do all he could to bene@ﬁt it, and he thought he could not bene@ﬁt it more than by assisting in the accomplishment of that great measure they had met to carry out hear, hear . He thought he might now congratulate the county on the fair pros- pect of attaining that desirable object, and the county of Norfolk would no longer be the only county that was not blessed with the advantage of a railway commu- nication. Great unanimity had prevailed at that meet- ing, and he hoped it was an earnest of the union and good feeling that would exist throughout. If they made a strong pull they must succeed, and it was his opinion, after due consideration, that Mr. Rastrick's line was the one that ought to be adopted, going as it did near Cambridge hear, hear . No agricultural county could possibly raise money enough for the purposes of a line of this nature, and therefore they must of course look to London and other places for the principal part of their funds. There was, however, only one way of inducing the monied interest to render assistance, and that was by taking shares themselves. Let every gentleman who wished to see a railroad to Norwich and Yarmouth established, just calculate upon the advantage he himself would de- rive from it, say fairly what he would give to see it ac-co@mp@li@@shed, and then put down his name for that amount of shares hear, hear . They would then very soon de- rive assistance from capitalists hear, hear . In conclu- sion he begged again to return his sincere thanks for the honour they had done him, and would be happy to meet any gentleman who could conveniently attend the meeting to be held next Thursday in Norwich. In pursuance of the above resolutions a company was immediately formed, and shares to a large amount taken in the room. REDDITCH.-Another of those distressing acci- dents, so often occurring from the improper use of  here on Wednesday last. A grandson of Mr. Davis, of the Crown Inn, was in the act of shoot- ing at a small bird, when the fowling piece a very old one burst, and fractured his skull in a shocking manner. The young man lies in a very precarious state, with but a faint hope of recovery.-Worcester Chronicle. THE CHARTISTS AT INVERNESS. FROM AN INVERNESS PAPER. Handbills were issued on Monday, announcing that Mr. Julian Harney, from London, ex-member for Northumber- land, to the quondam so called National Convention, would address the inhabitants of Inverness, showing the necessity for an inquiry into the condition of the working classes, at eight o'clock in the evening. Admis- sion two pence, to defray expenses. The meeting was held in a room in Raining Stairs. Shortly after the time announced, Mr. Julian Harney, a young man, wrapped in a plaid, entered the room, and mounted on a table. Mr. Maclennan, watchmaker, was appointed chairman. Mr. HARNEY'S speech consisted of the stale and hack- neyed topics which form the staple of Chartist harangues He represented the working classes as in a state border- ing upon starvation. The hand-loom weavers of Cum- berland had only sixpence per day. Mr. H. then said there was not an honest representative for Scotland. He stigmatised the clergy as robbers, eulogised the charter, and advised the working classes to inquire and think for themselves. Mr.  slater, asked Mr. Harney what he meant by asserting that there was not an honest representative for Scotland in Parliament cheers . Mr. HARNEY said that none of them supported the charter continued laughter . Mr. RENNIE, solicitor, said that the Chartist agitators spoke of the distress of the working classes, yet they went about, wringing pence from their scanty earnings, to sup- port themselves in idleness. Mr. DAVID MONRO, merchant, then stood forward, and at some lenght exposed the utter fallacy and mis-state- ments of the Chartist orator. With respect to the manu- facturing labourer, although it was undeniable that dis- tress prevailed in certain districts, it was merely local, and was caused chie@ﬂy by the operation of the corn-laws, which excluded aur goods from the foreign markets. Mr. Julian Harney and his coadjutors had been most strenuous in opposing the repeal or modi@ﬁcation of these laws. They a@ﬀected to sympathise with what they called the starving classes, and yet made use of every in@ﬂuence they possessed to defeat all at- tempts to obtain cheap food. This was what he would designate as the blackest compound of impudence and treachery. But, was this treacherous conduct without a motive? No! these men knew well that had this relief been a@ﬀorded, their power to do mischief would have ceased, they could no longer have found a su@ﬀicient pre- tence for @ﬂeecing the labourer of his earnings, to support their baneful, yet to them gainful, craft of political agita- tion-so much for their regard for the working classes@! The remedy proposed by Mr. Harney would not cure the distress which does exist for if brought to the test of ex- perience, as respects the conduct of those electors of the particular class to which Mr. Harney wishes to extend the franchise, it would be found that their conduct in the use of that franchise had not generally been such as to warrant the experiment of extending it at present to any greater number of the body. As to the constituency of the Scottish burghs, although the circumstance of our having none of the old leaven of the pot-walloping sys- tem amongst us, had enabled us to return almost alto- gether a liberal representation, yet it is well known that it was amongst the poorer class of voters in these burghs that the full in@ﬂuence of our opponents was employed with most success. In England, the e@ﬀects of this were still more apparent. There, the retention of the old cor- rupt freemen has had the e@ﬀect of swamping the inde- pendent portion of the constituencies and the con- sequence has been that this liberal and reforming government has, as regards the English representation, been left in a minority. It is, therefore, plain that, before a stronger infusion of this class of voters can be safely admitted to the franchise, more knowledge must progress amongst them. Let them acquire this, and habits of providence and order, and then such a change may be proper and safe. Mr. Harney deprecated war and bloodshed@@ yet he himself had ad- vised the ignorant labourers of England to provide them- selves with pikes and pistols, and to use them against un- o@ﬀending men, for the enforcement of abstract rights. He had been the coadjutor of the infatuated Frost and his treasonable associates, who, at Newport, led on the deluded labourers to be butchered. Many a widow and orphan had to lament that husbands and fathers had been led, some to death and many to gaol, by this man and his co-conspirators. Did not Mr. Harney him- self, at a mceiing held before going to the conven- tion, say, that he would not return till he got the charter the law of the land, or his plaid dyed in his heart's blood! Were these the words of truth and soberness, or were they not rather like the ravings of a maniac. Mr. Harney would @ﬁnd little sympathy with his views among the Scottish labourers they were men of a far superior class to the ignorant and besotted pea- sants and coal-miners of Northumberland, among whom his in@ﬂuence lay. The Scottish labourer was famed over the civilised world for habits of order, industry, and honesty he ranked high, if not highest, in the scale of intelligence. Such men would not allow themselves to be misled by social incendiaries like Mr. Harney the enemies and revilers of all that has hitherto been held sacred among men. Mr. Monroe then said, that they should not conclude without coming to some practical result, and he, therefore, proposed the following reso- lution - That the Chartist leaders, having advocated riot and disorder, and incited the working classes to trea- son and rebellion, have thereby proved themselves to be the enemies of that and every other class of society, and have mainly contributed to put a stop to the gradual pro- gress of sale and rational reform. Mr. RENNIE, solicitor, said he had much pleasure in seconding the motion great confusion . Thereafter a running @ﬁre was kept up by question and answer, shout, and laughter. At one time we were afraid of an open battle. Mr. Harney having attempted to misrepresent a certain statement, an individual present styled him a convicted liar, upon which Mr. Harney rejoined You are a d-d liar. After some confusion,  an operative mason from the south, proposed a counter motion to the e@ﬀect that the meeting approve of Mr. Harney's princi- ples, and have con@ﬁdence in him. GEORGE BAIN seconded this amendment, amidst cries of Well done, Geordy. It was proposed by the chair- man that the vote should be taken by the parties going to opposite sides of the room. It was then evident that the motion was carried by a large majority. Another scene of confusion having ensued, the police- oﬀicers entered, and the orderly portion of those present withdrew. It is impossible to convey an adequate idea of the meeting, but our readers may have some conception of it from the above report. It is but right to say that the chairman behaved with great propriety. Next morn- ing Mr. Julian Harney left town to proceed to Forres. THE WEATHER-THE PARKS. The weather since Wednesday evening has undergone many changes. At six o'clock the thermometer stood at 30 degrees, two degrees below freezing point but by seven o'clock a light sleet began falling, and about nine o'clock a heavy fall of rain, snow, and sleet mingled toge- ther commenced, accompanied with a strong westerly wind, w@hich continued till an early hour yesterday morn- ing. From nine o'clock until a late hour the streets of the metropolis, and more particularly the roads round town, were rendered most dangerous by the rain freezing immediately on its reaching the earth, which made the pathways like a sheet of ice. About midnight, however, the thermometer having reached 39 degrees, a rapid thaw commenced, and at six o'clock yesterday the mercury stood at 40 degrees, the rain still continuing. Soon after eight o'clock the clouds broke and eventually cleared away, and during the remainder of the day the sun shone forth brilliantly. At noon the thermometer stood as high as 46 degrees, but towards the afternoon the wind shifted to the north-west, and as the evening advanced it again began to freeze, the thermometer having, at six o'clock, fallen down to freezing point.  ice much under water, and, towards the middle of the day, very dangerous. At twelve o'clock most of the icemen were withdrawn, yet numerous persons still ventured to skate. No accident occurred.  the Round Pond there was a very fair attendance of skaters, the ice, notwith- standing the thaw, being secure. There were not so many on the Long Water, and no accidents occurred. ST.  ice was very unsafe, and no persons ventured upon it.  ice very slippery and dangerous. There was, however, a numerous attendance of skaters, amongst whom were the Duke of Brunswick, and his secretary, and several members of the Skating Club. No accidents occurred. THE RIVER.-There was a general break-up of the ice on the river, and the navigation of the shipping, steamers and craft received very little interruption, and a number of vessels of every description arrived and departed in the course of the day. Several coasters and colliers which were kept out of the pool by the ice, also came up in the afternoon by the tide, which brought up a consi-The CATASTROPHE at FRANCIS-STREET CHA@PEL.-CORONER'S INQUESTS. FROM THE PREEMAN'X JOURNAL. @@Yesterday an inquest was held at the Coombe Hospital, before James M'Carthy, Esq., one of the county coroners, touching the death of Gillies Claxton, the wile of a shoe- maker living at New-street, and one of those who had been unfortunately kilted on the@@ morning of Christmas Day, at the above house of worship. The @ﬁrst witness examined was John Brady, a labourer, who deposed as fol- lows -I live at 27, Bride-street. I was not in Francis- street chapel on Christmas morning. I saw that straight- edged piece of deal board, now produced in the chapel- yard, where they kept the lumber and all the scantling materials. I did not see that straight edge since the week before Christmas. It was myself broke it that week as it is now. It was in a heap of sticks or wood of the same kind which I was removing. It fell out of the parcel. I did not mind it at the time, but trod on and broke it across, but not altogether it was cracked and partly hanging asunder I threw it back and left it standing up amongst the lumber. After I had cracked it, and about the middle of the week before Christ@mas Day, the short fragments of it were on the sca@ﬀolding of the chapel in use with a stene mason. I know nothin@g about the longer portion of it. I never saw it after it had been broken in the yard until now. I was sweeping to the left of the large door leading into the chapel on Tuesday last. I then saw no timber, but two pieces of architrave moulding, which had been ripped o@ﬀ the door each piece was from seven to eight feet long. I did not see them since. In sweeping out the chapel on the day I mentioned I saw no other piece of wood whatever. None such could have been in the place without my noticing it. I left the pieces of the architrave behind me inside. That, as I have already said, was near the entrance door leading in from Francis-street. Christopher Bollard examined I live at 28, Plunket- street. I am a shoemaker. Was in the chapel on Christ@mas morning. I entered it at about a quarter to six o'clock. Remained there quiet, but crushed, for about twenty mi- nutes. Mass was then celebrating. Just as the @ﬁrst gospel was over a man made an alarm. @He was close to my shoulder. I never saw him before, but I think I would know him again if I saw him. He was crushing and talking at the time. He made no alarm or noise till I heard a crack, seem- ingly of a slick disjointing. It was over in a corner near a side door. In about a second there was another crack that seemed louder than the @ﬁrst. Said man then roared out that the gallery was falling. He desired the congrega- tion to look up, that it was splitting. He then rushed forward as strongly as he could to get out at the door. The people began to rush that moment to try and get out also. All then joined crying out the same, that the gallery was falling. I held the man for a time by the skirt of the coat, more to aid me in getting oat than to de- tain him, but in the struggle of getting out I was separated from him. He got out. He wore a brown surtout coat. I was under the gallery where the alarm was made. We got out at a side door fronting Francis-street. All that I saw went out at the same door. The noise or crack I supposed was about three yards from me. The place was so crowded before I heard the noise that I was sometimes raised o@ﬀ my feet for a minute or so. I heard the stranger sometimes say he was so desperately crushed that if he was outside he would wait for the next mass. Before the noise he was quite uneasy, and went from one side to the other, getting nearer to the door. First witness That was not on the same side of the chapel where I left the pieces of wood. Bollard The man who gave the alarm was about @ﬁve feet ten inches in height. He was a thin person. I could not say of what complexion. He appeared to @be a countryman of about 25 or 26 years old. I am q@uite sure that the noise of the crack came from the ground-@ﬂoor, not from the gal- lery. He did not make much alarm on the @ﬁrst crack, but on the second he screamed out. When I got out I saw several persons down. There was su@ﬀicient room going in from Francis-street to the chapel. That morning you could scarcely get in without almost @ﬁghting your way through, the crowds were as great. There was su@ﬀicient passage to the chapel from Francis-street, if there was proper light, for twelve or fourteen person to move back and forwards at the same time. I only saw one boy dead. He was lying outside on a large stone upon which he had been raised. I returned into the chapel immediately after. The @ﬁrst noise was like that of the cracking of a light stick. The second noise seemed louder than the @ﬁrst, as if a stick were disjointing. There was about a second between the two cracks. The lath or straight edge now produced I had in my hand that morning. A woman gave it to sue out of the corner where I heard the noise. I do not know the woman, but she said to me, here is the stick, Mr. Bollard, which was broken this morning, and which caused all the alarm and confusion. I speak in reference to the long piece. I did not see the short piece, but observed where part of the long one had been broken o@ﬀ. I left the stick after against one of the porches in the middle of the chapel. I am per- fectly convinced I could swear that the noise proceeded from the ground-@ﬂoor over in the corner. I was standing in the lower end of the chapel, close to the wall, the boy who was killed being only between me and it. An inspector of police stated that he found a similar straightedge, but unbroken, in a place used by the workmen in the yard. Rose Bollard examined I am the wife of the last wit- ness. I went at the same time with my husband to Francis- street Chapel, on Christmas morning. I was at the left hand side of the chapel going in from Plunket street, under the gallery. I observed a lath or stick like that now shown under the gallery, up in the corner. I was close to it. I did not see it broken, but I heard the crack. I think it was from that stick the noise proceeded. There were two men crushed by the crowd up against it, and it was broken in consequence. This was before any noise took place. I said What is that? a woman said to me never mind-it is that piece of stick that was broken. It was net at that corner the alarm win raised, it was at the other side, at the Francis-street door. One of the men I mention was leaning against the stick with his shoulders. These men were in the same place when I @ﬁrst entered the chapel. It was the crowd that, as these two men were standing at the spot, pushed them against the stick. All the time I was there the men were close to it. When I heard the @ﬁrst cry out they were there. They did not go away until after the @ﬁrst alarm had been given. It was not either of them that gave the al@arm. I did not go from where I was, as a man bid me not to stir that there was no fear of me. One voice @ﬁrst said that the gallery was falling, and than all joined in the cry. I heard the two cracks. I do not think that both came from the same quarter. The @ﬁrst seemed to proceed from the stick near which I was standing. I think that the second crack came from towards Francis-street door, but I was so frightened I could not tell exactly where it came from. I saw a man holding up that piece of a board in his hand I think, and telling the people not to be alarmed there was no fear that it was that piece of wood that h@ad been broken. I did not know that man who held it up. He was standing under the gallery. The chapel was pretty clear of people at the time. John Woolley was examined, but his testimony was of no importance whatever. Patrick K@elly examined I live at 47, Bride-street. On Tuesday evening I was sent for to set some bricks and a @ﬂag in the chapel. I sent out a man for a straight-@edgo. He brought me the piece of wood the largest portion of the straight edge now produced. The short piece I think is the same I had used before on the toner of the chapel. Rose Bollard The stick I saw in the corner reached higher than the men's shoulders. That should have been longer than both the pieces of wood produced put together. Edward Sherwood examined I am clerk of Francis- street Chapel. I was very particular on Christmas eve to have the chapel cleared of everything that might at all in- convenience the people. In order to give as much light as possible, I had threel ge lamps lighted one of them had three burners. I was in the sanctuary, and, on hearing the noise, I thought it was one  broken, but I found it was not. I am  Mr.  William Collis, of Dunmow, draper, at twelve last examination-Thomas William Horder, of Fenchurch-street, chemist, at  Robert Harris, of Percy-street, carver and gilder, at two last examination. Before Mr.  John Stone Small@ﬁeld, of Newgate-street, bookseller, at twelve choice of assignees. Before Mr. Commissioner FANE. Charles Baker Harman, of Stoney Stratford, innkeeper, at twelve last examination-Wild and Williams, of Walworth, linen-drapers, at one last examination. Before Mr. Commissioner EVANS. Phillips and Phillips, of Regent-street, lamp manufacturers, at eleven last examination. Before Mr. Commissioner HOLROYD. George Wilkin, of Frith-street, tailor, at eleven last examination. SECONDARIES' COURT, BASINGHALL-STREET-At twelve. Howard v Brown-Larkin and Another v Sewell-Emmott v Sewell-Ratc@liﬀe, Whyman, and another v Jackson-Sharland and another v Piggott. INSOLVENT DEBTORS' COURT, PORTUGAL-STREET. Sit at ten. Seventeen Bail  Thomas Welsh-Joseph John Fawcett.  Smith-Jonathan Collingburn -Charles Hunt-Robert Nesbit Kell-Richard Lock.  Holland-Abraha@m Honnor-Charles Paris Poole. SHERIFFS' COURT-THURSDAY. Before Mr.  Burchell and a Common Jury.  this case Mr. Miller appeared as counsel for the plain- ti@ﬀ, a printer, residing in Craven-buildings, Strand and Mr. Innis attended on behalt of the Rev. @Dr. Zieukiewicz, who is a Roman Catholic clergy@man and a Polish refugee. The action was brought to recover the sum of £19 odd for printing several n@umbers of a work called The Hist@ory of Poland, and the defendant bad paid £2 1s. into court, and pleaded payment as to the remainder. Mr. Miller stated that the defendant determined in the be- ginning of this year to write a history of P@oland, which he employed the plainti@ﬀ to print, and which was to be brought out in weekly numbers at three-pence each, or in monthly shilling parts. The defendant pro- posed bringing out the work by means of shares, and in the list of shareholders that he had printed were the names of the @Rev. Dr. T. Gri@ﬀith, Bishop of London district his Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex, M, Guizot, the Hon. Mr. Sta@ﬀord Jerningham, John Wright, Esq., the banker, @c. The printing of the numbers, it was agreed, should be done for £2 15s. per week, and the plainti@ﬀ was to take two shares of £1 each in the work. After the publication, how- ever, of the @ﬁrst monthly part, the plainti@ﬀ found that he could not go on upon these terms, and it was then arranged between hi@m and Dr. Zieukiewicz, that @he should be paid in full for the future printing, although his name should con- tinue among t@he list of shareholders, lest the withdrawal of it should have an unfavourable tendency in the disposal of the work. The plainti@ﬀ likewise printed some fancy wrappers for the defendant, and had made some consi@derable correc- tions in the history, at the doctor's request, which items amounted in the whole to the sum claimed. A compositor, named Ball, in the plainti@ﬀ's employ, proved the work done, and said that he heard the defendant promise, on his conscience, to pay the plainti@ﬀ's demand in as short a time as possible. Dr. Zieukiewicz complained of not being able to get in the money for the ﬁrst part of the History of Poland until the second part was in the hands of the book-sellers. Cross-examined The receipts produced bore the plainti@ﬀ's signature @attached to them in his own handwriting. Other witnesses proved admissions of th@@e defendant of his liability. Mr. Innis put in the receipts identi@ﬁed by Ball, which acknowledged cash payments to the @amount of £9 19s., shares £13 12s.,@and 10s. for advertisements, which, he con- tended, more than covered the plainti@ﬀ's demand. The doctor, however, valued his reputation more than his life, and as he was excessively tenacious of his character he Mr. Innis had paid £2 1s. into court, in the hope that it would put an end to the litigation, although the plainti@ﬀ was not entitled to a farthing. He should prove that the defendant received a stipend of only £26 per year from the Polish Association, and that he had been ino@uced, by the solicitations of several friends and the plainti@ﬀ, to write a history of Poland, the expenses being undertaken to be paid by those who advised him to commence the work. He Mr. Innis held in his hand some rules and regulations for the guidance of the shareholders, and the plainti@ﬀ had sub- scribed his name to it but unless he Mr. Innis received permission to put it in, he could not do so, as the defendant was not in circumstances to have it stamped. The @Under-Sheri@ﬀ observed, that the attorney knew as well as himself that he had no power to receive anything that was not strictly evidence. Joseph Ostrowski, the editor of the History of Poland, and Mr. John Charles Fitzgerald, who described himself as a teacher of languages and occasional contributor to the press, were examined for the defence, but in the absence of the rules, or deed of partnership, as it was called, of the shareholders, their testimony was unavailing. Mr. Innis submitted that the plainti@ﬀ, as one of t@he partners in the work, could not sue his co-partner, the defendant. The Under-Sheri@ﬀ said that the defendant had given no evidence of a partnership having existed. Dr. Zieukiewicz begged the court would let him say a few words. The Under-Sheri@ﬀ said he had no power to do so he must appeal to the plainti@ﬀ's counsel. Mr. Miller observed that he merely appeared as the mouthpiece of his client, and he could not yield a privilege to the defendant which would not under any circumstances be conceded to a native of this country, and which would in all probability lead to a contradiction of the witnesses' statements that had been made under the solemn obligations of an oath. The Under-Sheri@@ﬀ having su@mmed up, the jury without hesitation returned a verdict for the plainti@ﬀ-@Damages £15  cause the complainants were in his  to ten guineas. The complainants had plated their model in his room for several  appeared to be made for  it was proper totake steps to  The complainants wished to  the model, and to leave nothing  proceeding which of course he  complainants denied that any  place on their part in giving the  very interesting exhibition. The fact had reason to believe the defendant was in league  to exhibit the real cheese, an@d this was the rea- son why he would not part with the model. Mr. Miller denied the accuracy of this statement. Mr. Long remarked that the rage for sight-seeing in John Bull was proverbial but, with all our national in such matters, he doubted whether public gullibility could be su@ﬀiciently excited to make the exhibition of the mere model of a cheese a pro@ﬁtable matter. Had it been the cheese itself, there might have been something to say in fa- vour of the proceeding.@@ @@It was ultimately arrranged that on payment of ﬁve guineas, the complaints might he at liberty to remove their model. @@ young girls were charged with annoying the overseers of St. Giles's, Bloomsbury. Mr. Dix, the relieving o@ﬀicer, said the defendant's had been o@@ﬀered work, but they refused to do it, and as they @were exceedingly annoying to the ov@erseers they had been brought here to answer for their misconduct. The girls, who agreed in the same story, said they were willing to work it any emplo@yment was o@ﬀered them at which they could procure subsistance. The parish had sent them to pick oakum, and this was the only out-door relief they would give@@@@. Mr. Dix said, if the girls chose to be industrious, they could earn eight-pence and even as much as a shilling a day at the work. @@@@The girls declared this was totally impossible. They had tried the work, but the most they could earn was a penny or three halfp@ence. If the parish would oblige th@em to continue to pick oakum they would be obliged to sp@@end the few pence they might earn in food, and walk the streets during the night.night. Mr. Dix said he would add food to their wages, if they   Several complaints have been lately ma@de to the Lord Mayor, relative to the want of water in Smith@ﬁeld in the cattle pens. Communications have been received at the Mansion-house by letter and personally on the subject. They have stated that when cattle arrive at Smit@hﬁeld after a long journey, there is not a drop of water to be found for them althou@gh they evidently s@uﬀer from extreme thirst, and it has been suggested that troughs be placed in di@ﬀerent parts of the market, with water for the use of the poor @animals. The Lord Mayor and Alderman Wilson referred the matter of complaint to Deputy @Hicks, the chairman of the markets' committee, whose improvements in Smit@@ﬁeld have entitled him tothe thanks of the community. In all proba- bility that @gentleman would immediately see the evil, if it existed, remedied. A gentleman, who stated that he waited upon his lordship at the request of the drovers, to represent the fact that the cattle which travelled up to market were in such a deplor- able condition from thirst that the blood oozed out of their hoofs, said that in fact the whole animal economy was ef- fectually destroyed by the want of water. A collecting clerk in the house of Messrs. Woodbrid@ge, brewers, was on Wednesday charged before Alderman Wil- son with having been so drunk on the preceding night as to drive his horse and gig furiously on the wrong side of the road, to intrude violently upon the quietude of a cab stand, and at length to make choice of the pavement for trying the pluck of a very spirited horse. @@@@George Want, a bricklayer, stated that on Tuesday  he saw the horse or cart, or gig, driving furiously along  upon the wrong side of the street. There were  the  there. It might possibly have been there without my seeing   ness represented that if he did not interfere mischief must be  full extent of the chapel, from seventy to eighty feet long. I asked the girl who cleaned out the chapel the night before, whether she had seen any sticks or wood in the place, and she told me she had not. Where I saw the people crushed and failing was at the foot of the steps outside, as if they had been descending them. This closed the examination of the witnesses. The Coroner, in charging the jury, said that at all events it did not appear from the evidence that there was any thing  drove, or pretended to drive, as very closely bordering upon the last stage of drunkenness. Witness took care of the cash box which was in the gig, and which contained, as he understood, a considerable sum of money, and was spoken to afterwards very uncourteously by one of the gentlemen of the establishment, on account of his in- terference, it being the opinion of those at the brewery, that it the defendant had been let alone he would have driven to  quantity of drilling ice, which appeared very soft, and o@ﬀered very little obstruction to the pasasge of ships and barges. At low water there were vast masses of ice icebergs on both shores, a good deal of which was taken up by the @ﬂowing tide, and dissolved. The change of the weather happened very opportunely, for the na- vigation of the river was almost entirely suspended on Tuesday.day. @We regret to observe that the murrain has been progressing northward with rapid strides and it has during the last week developed itself extensively in the Highland counties, one gentleman in the neighbourhood of Tain having had 146 head of cattle a@ﬀected by it in rapid succession. It has also extended itself over the western counties, and is far from being unknown in our own immediate neighbourhood. Here, however, the type is unusually @mind, and we have not heard of a single beast that has died, wherein the cause of death may not be at- tributed to some previous malady which predisposed the animal to murrain, and did not leave it strength to resist the in@ﬂammation which accompanies it. The disease in this quarter has not, on an average of many cases, a@ﬀected the animal more than four days, and then it takes readily to such soft food as can be used from the tender state of the mouth and tongue. When once quit of the disease, we are not aware that it returns again to the same ani- mal. In very few cases in Scotland have we heard of pigs or sheep being a@ﬀected by the malady but we ob- serve that in Yorkshire the disease has extended to all kinds of stock, including horses, sheep, pigs, and even the poor shepherds' dogs. Fortunately, we cannot yet complain of any such extended infection in Scotland, where hitherto the dread of the disease has been worse than the reality. Veterinary authorities are not yet agreed as to whether the disease is propagated by contagion or atmospheric in- ﬂuence.-Glasgow  purposes. Several of the jurors expressed themselves as entertain @@ing a similar opinion. After a few minutes' consultation, the jury returned the following verdict - We @ﬁnd that the said Gillies Claxton@@ was killed at @Francis-street chapel on the morning of the 25th instant, or Christmas-day, by a number of persons@@ rushing out of said chapel, and crushing her person and@ that this rushing, and the consequences that followed, were@@ caused by a person or persons unknown, but whether through excitement or alarm from nervousness, owing to his or their situation at the time, or from a felonious intent, we cannot say. The Coroner then adjourned to the county of Meath hos- pital, and there proceeded to hold inquests touching the death of James Colligan, and of Eleanor Savage, who had come by t@heir deaths at the same time and place, and under the like melancholy circumstances. The evidence was similar to that adduced in the preced- ing case, and a verdict substantially the same as the fore- going was found by the jury in each case. Catherine Smith, the poor woman who had sustained in- jury of the brain, continues in the hospital in an utterly hopeless state. The other patients are going on o  ten and eleven o'clock yesterday morning the following dreadful acci- dent occurred -A gentleman named Bartlett, who re- sided at Coombe-lodge, Regent's-park, left his residence in a gig, accompanied by his sister-in-law, a lady of the name of Richards. On emerging from the gate leading into the main road through the park, a man who was passing at the time, with a basket of live ducks on his head, in endeavouring to avoid the horse and gig, stum- bled, and threw the basket down before the horse. It is supposed that the noise and @ﬂuttering of the ducks fright- ened the animal, which suddenly reared upon his hind legs. Miss Richards was thrown backwards out of the gig, and her spine was severely injured, and the whole of her front teeth and gums forced out. Mr. Bartlett was thrown partly over the back of the gig, and in his @eﬀorts to recover himself he fell over the side of the vehicle, with his head between the spokes of the wheel at the moment that the horse started o@ﬀ. The groom, who the instant before had left the horse's head, attempted to restrain the animal, but before he could accomplish this t@he head of the unfortunate gentleman had become entangled in the wheel, and when the horse was stopped Mr. Bartlett was found to be lifeless, his neck having been broken.  few days ago an honest farmer's wife, in the neighbourhood of Biggar was waited upon by a gipsy fortune-teller or spaewife, who o@ﬀered to lift the curtain of futurity, and give her a peep of what was in store for her for a more tri@ﬂe. After showing o@ﬀ some of her cantrips, and making the unsuspecting house- wife believe that she, like Glendower, had the gift of calling spirits from the vasty deep, she prevailed upon her to part with a pound note, in the conviction that in a quarter of an hour by her auld timmer clock, a braw horned cow would come routin' to the door! This being done, the second part of the drama opened with exit spaewife, and Mrs. Look-for-Crumbie solus. It is hardly necessary to state that the cow did not make her appearance to add to thedramatis  Messrs. Woodbridge and Co. for six years, and a more steady man could not be found. Never before had there been a shadow of complaint against him, and he was highly esteemed. He is, said the gen- tle@man, four days in the week in the habit of bringing in sums of money, sometimes £300 or £400 at a time, and if he is exposed to this sort of interruption and annoyance, the inconvenience will be very great. Alderman Wilson And so you would have the police allow him to gallop over people and smash every thing be- fore him to suit his convenience. The gentleman said he understood that the horse, which was a very spirited one, became rather unmanageable for a short time, but that no doubt it the policeman had not inter- fered all would have been right. A person, who stated that he was in the gig at the time with the defendant, said he did not perceive that the defendant was dru@nk and the gig was not going fast at all. The policeman and other witnesses declared that the gig was going at the rate of eleven or twelve miles an hour, and that the person who sat with the defendant was most decidedly drunk a@nd wholly incapable of rendering assist- ance. The policeman stated, that if it had not been for the property in the cash-box he would have taken the gig to the green-y@ard.@ There were insinuations thrown out against him at the brewery as to the security of the property, and he considered h@imself very ill used. Alderman Wilson was also of opinion that the policeman was extremely ill used. What would Mr. Woodbridge say if the horse bad dashed the gig to pieces and the cash-box had been lost, not to mention other mischief that might have been done if the policeman had not interfered? In his Al- der@man Wilson's opinion the establishment were much in- debted to the policeman for his activity and care, and, in- stead of a reproach, the man deserved some recompense. The gentleman said that he should mention the alderman's suggestion to the house. Alderman Wilson trusted that the defendant would drink less in his  in  and @ﬁned him 10s. for being drunk. The alderman subsequently observed that he knew it was very hard for persons employed as the defendant was to go through their laborious day's business without showing that they had very high opinions of the article they vended by submitting to the severe test of tasting deeply, but he really thought it would be prudent in their employers to give them a hint not to raise their elbows so very often even in in boxing time. The police@man who acted upon this occasion was stated by his inspector to be a very steady and trustworthy man, and Alderman Wilson remembered the man in his mayoralty to bear and to des@erve that character. MARLBO@ROUGH-STREET. THE  Miller, of the Egyptian- hall, was su@@mmoned before Mr. Long by two persons named @Page and Cotton, for detaining the @model of a cheese in- tended as a present to @her Majesty. It may be necessary, in elucidation of the nature of the case, to mention that some loyal persons have clubbed a day's milk of their cows for the purpose if manufacturing an enormous cheese, to be presented to her Majesty. The complainants stated they had @made a model of this cheese, and with the view of exhibiting it they contracted with the defendant for the use of a room in the Egyptian-hall, at so much per month. The defendant, however, had kept the room locked, and as he refused to part with the key, they were unable to open the exhibition to the public. When applied to, the defendant refused to give up the model.  Mr. Long told the girls they must to the best they could at the work o@@ﬀered them by the pari@sh and then discharged @@them. THAMES-POLICE. A big Irishman, named Hugh Murray, was charged with kicking Dennis Murphy, his countryman. The par- ties are ballast getters, and Murphy has lately join@ed a tem- perance society, which gave oﬀence to the prisoner, who is very partial to whiskey undiluted. On Saturday last after drinking more than a proper allowance of his favourite liquor, he met Dennis Murphy at Ratcli@ﬀ cross, and be- gan to abuse him, telling him that after drinking more gin and beer than any other Irishman in England, be left @oﬀ, because he could tot drink any more, and joined a temperance society. After this abuse had continued for some time, Murray made some font allusions to a bad leg, with which Murphy had been long a@ﬀlicted, and kicked him violently on the leg which was bandaged. He then followed him, and put his @ﬁst before his face, and swore that but for the laws he would smash him, and make @him put his head in his month, as St. Patrick is reported to have done when he crossed the Li@ﬀey. Murray, in defence, said he had done nothing at all, and that Murphy was envious of him because he drank whiskey@, and refused to Join the Temperance Society. Murphy called him many ugly names, which were not @ﬁt to be men- tioned, and then struck him on the cheek. Murphy swore that he never struck Murray at all, and called two witnesses, who con@ﬁrmed his statement. Murray here put his hand to the side of his head, above his right ear, and said he received a blow there, which took the senses out of him for three quarters of an hour. Mr. Broderip You have a very bad memory. Five minutes ago you put your hand on your left cheek, and said you had been struck there and now yon put your hand on the top of your head. I don't believe he has struck you at all, and I have no doubt whatever you kicked him on his ba@d leg, which was a very cowardly and brutal act. You will pay a @ﬁne of 40s. and the costs for this assault, or go to prison for one month. MARYLEBONE.  middle-aged woman, who gave her name Ann Brown, was placed at the bar, charged with having stolen a valuable shawl and a bible from the residence of the Marchioness Cornwallis, No. 12, Park-crescent, Regent's-park. Edward Su@ﬀell, in the employ of Mr. Daniels, a pawn- broker, living within a few yards of this court, deposed that the prisoner entered the shop and o@@ﬀered for pledge a shawl, upon which she asked ten shillings. Witness, perceiving that the article was a valuable one, examined it closely, and found marked upon it the name Lady Elizabeth Cornwal- lis. He then questioned her as to how she became pos- sessed of it, when she stated that it had been given to her by a member of the Cornwallis family, all of whom were then out of town and in reply to further inquiries, she said that she resided at 79, East-street, and was a respectable woman. He accompanied her to the said house, when, @ﬁnd- ing that she was not the occupier of any apartments therein, he gave her into custody. She repeatedly begged of him not to do so, and alleged that such a proceeding would utterly ruin her. Mr. Rawlinson What is the value of the shawl?-Wit- ness Fro@m £8 to £10. Sarah Wade, housemaid to the Marchioness Cornwallis, stated that the family quitted London in October last, and that the prisoner was engaged to remain behind with her witness , and assist her, for which s@he was paid at the rate of 11s. 6d. per week. On the previous night she had 10s. given her, and went out for the purpose of making some purchases, but she did not return, and witness ascertained soon after her departure that a drawer up stairs, belonging to one of the young ladies, had been forced open. Harriet Molesworth, the ladies' @maid, deposed that the shawl produced had @been placed in the drawer in question, and was the property of the Lady Elizabeth Cornwallis. @Levett, 13 D, proved that the prisoner, when at the station-house, gave up a key. He repaired to the mar- chioness's residence, and on examining a cupboard in the servants' hall, the door of which the said key opened, he found in it a pocket-hook, containing a number of pawn- broker's duplicates, one of which was for a bible pledged at Mr. Baylis's, Mortimer-street, Cavendish-square. The bible from which the label indicating to whom it be- longed had been torn, and which was discovered with the duplicates in the prisoner's pocket-hook was brought for- ward by Mr. Baylis's shopman, and sworn to by the lady's maid, as belonging to Lady Elizabeth Cornwallis. The prisoner, who had nothing more to say than that she never forced a lock in her li@fe, was tally committed to New- gate for trial. CORONERS' INQUESTS. Yesterday evening an inquest was held at Guy's Hospital, before Mr. @Payne, coroner, on the body of Sarah Terry, ﬁve years of age, who died in the above hospital. The jury having viewed the body, which presented a shocking spectacle, Mary Ann Terry, the mother of the deceased, deposed that on Mo@nday evening last, about @ﬁve o'clock, she went down stairs into the parlour, leaving the deceased and two other children, a boy of three years of age and a girl seven years old. She had scarcely got down stairs when she heard vio- lent screams, and on going up stairs found the deceased en- veloped in @ﬂames. She took up a rug and extinguished them. Witness said she understood that the eldest girl had taken the lighted candle out of the candlestick, and put it to the bott@om of the frock of the deceased, it is supposed with a view of frightening the child. The child's father, who was examined, but who knew nothing of the transaction, was cautioned by the coroner to keep a strict watch on the child who had apparently been the cause of the accident. The jury then returned a verdict of Accidental death. At w  talking to Mr. Winter's private @ foggy during the @night  ling for watching every loaded ba Barclay's wharf. Witness  the barges in execution  dty. Verdict- Found drowned. SPORTING INTELLIGENT.  attendance was unusually  no other return than is   from Ostend, Sarah Ann from Messina,  fro@m Altea, and Minerva from Lisbon. ENTERED OUTWARDS FOR LOADIN@G. The Alida for Ostend, Heiress for Gibraltar, Sussex for Bombay, Countess of Dunmore for Sydney, and Adele for Calais. CLEARED OUTWARDS WITH CARGO. The City of Londonderry for Havre, Adele for Calais, Maria Eliza- beth for Schevening, Caroline for Calcutta, Dorothea for Messina. C@LEARED OUTWARDS IN BA@LLAST. The Medemblick for Medemblick.  the termination of the above inquest an inquiry was commenced by Mr. Payne relative to the death of Robert William Loader, aged twenty-live, one of the Fire Brigade Establishment, attached to the Watling-street station, who came by his death in consequence of the severe injuries he had sustained by the falling of a wall during the @ﬁre at Messrs. Goodhart and Co.'s, sugar bakers, Ratcli@ﬀe-highway, on Saturday morning last. From the testimony of several of the @ﬁre brigade men it appeared that the accident occurred by the falling of a por- tion of a wall about forty or @ﬁfty feet in height, which buried the unfortunate deconsed in its ruins up to the chest. The eyidence of the house-surgeon went to show that the deceased had sastained a compound fracture of both bones@ of his right leg, a severe contusion of his left leg, and seve- ral burns on his left leg and right arm. It was deemed necessary, immediately after his admission to the hospital, to amputate the fractured leg, which was done by Mr. Key, the surgeon. He went on as favourably as could be expected considering the injuries he had received, until yesterday @morning, when he expired. The Coroner here said, that, as there was no evidence before the jury to show the cause of the @ﬁre, the inquest must be adjourned to ascertain it, if possible and, in the meantime, ordered a post-mortem examination of the body, and the inquest was accordingly adjourned until Monday evening  -An epidemic has been for some time past raging among the convicts employed in the Royal Arsenal and govern- ment dock-yard at Woolwich, and has in several instances terminated fatally. A circumstance occurred in Woolwich on Tuesday last, which excited an extraordinary degree of interest in the town and the neighbourhood, namely, the coroner for the district, C. J. Carttar, Esq., holding an in- quest on the bodies of no less than seven convicts at one time. The inquiry in question took place at the Salutation public-house, opposite to the entrance to the Royal Arsenal. The jury after being sworn proceeded with the coroner to view the bodies, which were lying in the dead-house of the Arsenal. The whole seven were lying side by side most of them were young men, and the bodies were not at all emaciated. On the breast of one was a recently drawn blister, he having been for some time past labouring under a disease of the chest. The only evidence adduced be- fore the jury was that of the medical practi- tioners engaged to attend the convicts, Mr. Hope, of New Charlton, and Mr. Bossy, of Woolwich, who stated that their deaths arose fr@om purely natural causes. Some of them had been ill several times before, and had been con@ﬁned in the hospital of the garrison. The ma- jority were @aﬀected with an a@ﬀection of the chest, accompa- nied by slight fever.r. In answer to questions by the jury, the medical gentlemen said the deceased convicts had not su@ﬀered from the e@ﬀects of the weather, as in the winter they were furnished with warm Guernsey frocks, at least those who were accustomed to wear @ﬂannel nor was there any lack of food. When the convicts were all every attention was paid them, and wine when necessary was supplied to them. One of the jury asked if there was any other evidence available, but was answered in the negative, the conviets not being allowed to give any testimony on any occasion. A verdict of Death from lever was then returned. Yesterday, Mr. Carter held a@ninquest at the George, Bank- side, on the body of Thomas Mothersell, aged 46, a private watchman, at Bankside, who was found drowned. William Poole 33 M division of police, deposed that about six o'clock on Saturday morning he saw the body of the de- ceased in the mud o@ﬀ Ba@@nkside, nearly opposite the Anchor public-house, when he, with another policeman named Henry Hart, having procured a ladder and a shutter, got down on the shore and picked op the body, which they de- posited in the skittle-ground of the George public-house. From the appearance of the body it seemed to have been in the water several hours. It was low water at the time. Witness on examining his person recognised the deceased, who was formerly a police-sergeant of the M division, and@ had been ab@out three months in his present employment as private watchman.  from the Cape of Good Hope, o@ﬀ Crookhav@en, bound to Cork, sailed the 18th Oct. Clyde, from l saild @16th August, St. Helena 22d Oct. Alexander John- stone, from Bengal, in the Channel, sailed 24th July, and St. Helena 18th October. ARRIVALS AT VALPARAISO. @The Mary Anne, 30th Aug., from Sydney Capricho,  Chton. DEPARTURES FROM VALPARAISO. The Henry, @6th Sept., for Sydney Morley, 8th, for New Zealand and Sydney. ARRIVALS AT MADEIRA. The Prince Albert, 28th Nov., from London and Falmouth, sailed 2d Dec. for the Cape of Good Hope and the Mauritiu@s Lion, 6th Dec., from Newcastle, and sailed for Bombay. DEPARTURE FROM LISBON. The Sea Horse steamer, 22d December, for Van Diemen's Land. ARRIVAL AT TOMBEZ. The Sir A. Hammond whaler, 24th August, out twenty-seven months, with 500 barrels of oil had lost the master and @ﬁve of @the crew. LIVERPOOL, DEC. 31. SHIPS ARRIVED. The Ann from St. Petersburg, Balfour from Pernambuco a@nd Paralba, Jane Geary from Smyrna, Caroline from Seville, Devereaur from Quebec, and Orion from Gamla Carleby. SHIPS ENTERED FOR LOADING. The Ann and Jane for Berbice, Nicolai for Bremen, Beiram for Constantinople, Lord Panmure and Rapido for Havannah, Irish Lass for Monte Video and Buenos Ayres, Rob Roy for Philadelphia, Boli- var for Rio Janeiro, Jane for St. Thomas's, and Samaritan for Cen- stantinople and Odessa. SHIPS CLEARED OUTWARDS. The Oriental steamer for Malta and Alexandria, Prompt for Charles- ton, Belvidere for Baltimore, and Helen Jane for Batavia and Sin-  The Oriental steamer for Malta and Alexandria, and James Lyon for Newtoundland. @The Devereaux, arrived at this port from Quebec, on the 27t@h of November, in lat. 46, long. 44, experienced a heavy gale, and lost bulwarks, c., and on the 2d of December, in lat. 46, long. 42, passed the Pleiades, of Whitby, timber laden, abandoned. The Balfour, arrived at this port from Pernambuco and Parall, after being on shore on Mud Wharf, was got o@ﬀ without apparent damage. A schooner is aground on the West Hoyle, near the Point of Alt. O@ﬀ Holyhead, yesterday, outward bound, the Caledonia for Bo@mbay. LONDON MARKETS-THURSDAY. CORN AVERAGES. Weekly Average.-Wheat 60s 1d, Barley 32s 4d, Oats  5d, Beans 40s 9d, and Peas 40s 1d. Six Weeks' Average.-Wheat 59s 10d, Barley 32s 9d,  Rye 34s 4d, Beans 42s 1d, and Peas 41s 6d. Duty.-Wheat 27s 8d, Barley 13s 10d, Oats 15s 3d, Rye  6s 6d, and Peas 8s 0d. HAY MARKETS.  was a fair supply of Hay at this @morning's market, and a steady demand was experienced, more particularly, for the middling descriptions, at about former prices. Clover, ﬁne, from @£5 to £6, middling and inferior £4 to @@£4 15s, Meadow Hay, @ﬁne, from £4 to £5, interior and middling £@3 5s to £3 17s 6d per load. There was a fair supply of Straw, but the demand being brisk the whole was soon cleared o@ﬀ at 32s to 34s per load. PORTMAN.-Old Meadow Hay 75s to 100s, Useful ditto 60s to 70s, Old Clover 100s to @118s, Wheat Straw 36s to 40s, at per load of 36 trusses. LIVERPOOL COTTON MARKET, DEC. 31. Our market still remains in a rather quiet state, without any indi- cations of reduced prices, on the contrary, holders were steady, and previous rates were obtained for 3,500 bags.  bers of the Blackfriars-bridge committee have deter@mined to set the public an example of what ought to  long ago, by presenting Mr. Prior, the indefatigable chairman of the committee, with a piece of plate, com- memorative of his exertions to make such improve@@@ments and repairs in the structure as to place it among@st the most useful and elegant of modern metropolitan ediﬁces. The following is the resolution to which the com@mittee came by acclamation at a late meeting  That it be recommended that the of this committee should subscribe the sum of  for a piece of plate, to be presented to Jonathan Charles Prior, Esq., chairman, as a testimonial of the sense of the committee of his great services during the execution of the important works for the substantial repair of Black- friars-bridge. We are requested to state, that that fashionable perio-  Magazine, is about to  new-year, with additional charms and as this  public are seeking for the best and cheapest  proprietors of the Lady's Black@wood's  and Literature are determined to take the lead, and  whose pages will be replete with vigour and taste, calculated to en- rich the female mind, and to blend treasures of  The embellishments are to be of  and each number will contain from three to four plate of the newest  @ﬁne  Scenery No. 1, of the series , and nearly 150    is 2s. mon@thly, and the  by all booksellers in town and country@@.  West, cutler, No. 1, St. James's-street, has forwarded to Windsor, by com@mand of his Royal Highness Prince Albert, a very elegant pair  soles of which are formed of the @ﬁnest foreign wood, and the fasten- ings and straps of black leather, beautifully sown and lined with seat skin fur. Patronized by their Majesties the King and Qu@@een  and their Royal Highnesses the Princesses Augusts and Sophia, her Serene Highness the Princess Esterhazy,  and Rosa, her Grace the Dowager  their Graces the Archbishop of Canterbury and  and Manchester. In addition to the above  patronage to the newly-invented Spectacle  visible Operative Voice Conductor, the Messrs. S. and  and aurists, 39, Albemarle-street, Piccadilly,  Bank of England, feel great pleasure to  inventions have also gained the sanction and  of above four hundred of t@he principal  the medical profession as also of numerous  distinction, who have been greatly bene@ﬁted by their use. Im- medlately these improved Spectacle Lenses are placed  imperfect vision, it is at once brought  original state. Their Voice Conductor, is not the  nor more uncomfortable than having a piece of wool  the faintest whisper at a public assembly is heard  Albemarle-street, opposite the  King William-street, Bank.-No connection with same name. BIRTHS.@@@@@ On Sunday, the 27th ult., the wife of the Hon. H.  On the 31st ult., at Clapha@m park, Mrs. Stephen  
Dec. 2-Elizabeth Northam, St Sidwell, 8 4-Margaret Wotton, St Martin, 64 5-Edi@th Spicer, St Matthow, 4 months Percy Underdown, St James, 21 months 6-@@William Roberts, St James, 59 7-@Emily Vinnicombe, St Sidwell. 3 8-@Samuel Marks, Holy Trinity, 79 William Marwood, St David, 33 Samuel Bryant, St Paul, 65 Violet L Rushmer, St Leonard, 1  the Flying Post of Dec. 1. We lose the joys of nature And the blessed old-time lays, We cannot voice their music In the present battling days. We miss the holy commune 'Twixt the heart and life within The hallowed voice of @conscience-Is it silenced by the din ? The race of life is ardent. And torrid to its heat No @ﬂower of beauty lingers About those crowding feet. The weak hearts sink by thousands Beneath the surging throng, For in the world of con@ﬂict The victors are the strong. What if the dress of power Brings the novel crown of pain What if the place of vantage Hath a cross to weight the gain ? What if the golden image Cannot render what we ask-How fruitless all the e@ﬀort, And how bitter all the task. In striving for the magnet We lose the greater prize Of peace, and true contentment, Wherein real greatness lies. Wherein, then, shall we labour, But in trust, and to be free, With faith and hope to succour, And the Lord our destiny.  Heavitree, December 8th, 1@984. MORNING SUMMARY. King Christian of Demark is ill. A Council will be held at Windsor on Wednesday. Fifteen anarchists were arrested in Paris on Thursday. Mrs. H. Beerbohm Tree gave birth to a daughter yesterday. Thirteen Turkish o@ﬀicers have been appointed to various regiments in the Prussian Army. A Putney gentlem@an wife has eloped with @ lodger, taking her ht children and all the furniture. A daughter of Jabez Balfour, the wife of a well-known medical man at Croydon, has just given birth to a son. Mr. C. Downes, of Worleston. met with a serious accident whilst hunting with the South Cheshire hounds yesterday. M. Ferdinand de Lesseps, of Suez Cana ame, died last evening at his chateau of La Chennaie, near Vatan. A Dutchman, who shot himself to avoid arrest and recovered from his injuries, has hanged himself in prison at Monte Carlo. Sebastopol and Simferopol have just been connected by telephone, which has been attached to the telegraph poles on the rail- way. The Sheri@ﬀ of Ayr has dismissed the petition of Mr. William John Fulton, who claimed the Earldom and estates of Eglinton. A mourning coach, two valuable horses, and a dozen sets of harness have been stolen from an undertaking @ﬁrm's premises in Mackney. M. Camille Dreyfus, an ex-deputy, manag- ing Editor of the @Nation, was arrested last evening in connection with the Paris black- mailing scandals. The Japanese are reported to have made themselves quite at home at Port Arthur, and to be on frie@ndly terms with the Chinese there. John Kenning, charged with stealing a seal cloak, value £800, the property of the Countess of Warwick, was yesterday sen- nced to two months' hard labour. The Benchers of the Inner Temple have de- cided to print the MS. records of their Society, dating from 1,506, the twenty- second year of the reign of Henry VII., to the present time. At Ulster Assizes yesterday two game- keepers, named Deane and Lees, were sentenced to twelve and six months' imprison- ment respectively for having wounded two poachers Mr. Stoddart's team yesterday began a match at Brisbane against Queensland. The Englishmen were at the wicket all day, and scored 364 for four wickets. Mr. Stoddart con- tributing 149 and Ward 117. A deaf old lady of 70 was knocked down by a train near Carmarthen, the engine and three carriages passing over her as she lay between the lines, but with the exception of a scalp wound she was unhurt. Lord Londonderry, speaking in Marylebone last night, said the attack on the House of Lords was meant to divert attention from Home Rule, and repay the Nationalists by whose help the Government obtained o@ﬀice. The agitation was falling @ﬂat. At Chatham Dockyard at pay time yester- day afternoon, a @ﬁtter, named James Winning forgot his ticket and ran back to fetch it, when by some means he fell from the top gallery of t@he @ﬁtting shop, His head struck a drilling machine with great violence, his skull was fractured, and death was instan- taneous. At the North London Sessions yesterday, Ban@ﬁeld Lamb, who, it was stated, belonging to an old Devonshire family, and @ﬁve years ago succeeded to a fortune of £34,000, which had been squandered, was sentenced to six months' imprisonment with hard labour on a charge of stealing a watch and card case at Southsea. Will you vote for me at the election? asked a Swansea School Board candidate of a gentleman of his acquaintance. No I shan't be here, was the reply, But@ I'll tell you what I'll do-I'll lend you a trap. Will you ? cried the candidate enthusi- astically. Well that will carry more weight. -@Cardi@ﬀ Express At Leeds Assizes yesterday Mary Hopple- stone, 39, was charged with the manslaughter of her daughter, aged 12, at She@ﬀield, and was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment with hard labour. The girl had been out playing, and staying too long, the prisoner lost her temper, and threw a poker at the child. The poker entered the neck and the injury proved fatal. Mr. Asquith, addressing a meeting under the auspices of the @London Reform Union last night, said Lord Salisbury's sudden and enamoured advocacy of dividing up London into municipalities a might be atr buted not to his love of municipalities so much as his hatred of the County Connoil. With regard to the City, he denied that they would be guilty of con@ﬁscation. TORQUAY. Furnish your homes at the Excha@nge Mart Torquay. All goods carriage free, new or second hand. to suit all pockets.-Advt. Holloway's Coca Wine-The very thing for invalids Holloway's Coca Wine-A scienti@ﬁc product from Holloway's Coca Wine-Coca Bolivia @@Best Wine. Holloway's Coca Wine-@Magic restorer of nerve power. Holloway's Coca Wine-For young and old and delicate Ladies. H@@olloway's Coca  and Milton, Chemist, Exeter. Wilson, Ex- mouth, @c. Holloway's Coca Wine-Takes precedence of all similar  NEWS. Mr. E. W. Hall died at his resi Coker Court, Yeovil, on Monday. Miss Troyte, Huntsham @Court, has presented an altar frontal to Bumpton parish church.@@@ Lieutenant E. C. Wren, 1st Devonshire Regiment, has been selected for duty at the Depôt, Exeter@@. The Rev. Canon Eyre, of Tiverton, has decided not to accept the living of Aston, Birmingham. The Rev. A. H. Reid, late of Torquay, has become successor to the Rev. W. Fergusson, of Ellen Free Church. Mr. James Lewis Wolferstan, of Blundell's School, Tiverton, has been awarded an exhibi- tion in mathematics at Worcester College. Hon. R. and Mrs. Butler and Miss Butler, of Nidd Hall, Yorkshire, are staying at Braddon Court, Torquay, for a few weeks. Mr. Charles Scotter, the general manager of the London and South Western Railway has undergone a successful operation for cataract. Ilfracombe Town Council on Monday decided to apply for power to borrow £4,202 19s 4d for extending the water mains, @@c. Mr. J. C. New, chairma@@n of the Tiverton Guardians, is to be entertained at a compli- mentary dinner by the members of the Board on the 17th inst.  maining on the books last week, 596 admitted this week, 113-709 discharged cured, 44 bene@ﬁted. 62 no return, 4-110 Remain 599. The Rev. W. H. Smith, of Newton Abbot, has been presented with £10, subscribed by the Bible Christians of the Barnstaple Circuit as a recognition of his services during his stay amongst them. Mr. William Bolitho, manager of the Con- solidated Bank of Cornwall, and cousin of Mr. T. B. Bolitho, M.P., was found dead in bed at his residence, Ponsandane, near Penzance, on Sunday morning. The Earl of Rosebery has consented to receive an address from the Radicals of Salisbury and South Wiltshire, at Salisbury on the 10th inst., when he will pass through that city en route for Devonport. Mr. J Passmore Edwards has promised the Shoreditch Library Commissioners a con- tribution £1,000 towards the erection of their second library in Pit@ﬁeld-street as soon as they are ready to have the four datisn stone laid. This o@ﬀer will bring up Mr. Edward's donation to the Shoredith Library to ££5,250 and 1,000 books. A marriage has been arranged between Cecil Roy Saunders of Downs House, Hants, son of the late Andrew Saunders, B.A. Oxon, of Downs House, and Ada Maud, youngest daughter of the late Rev. William Twyne M.A. Cantab, for 28 years rector of Rayleigh, F.ssex, and also vicar of Whiteparish, Wilts. CONCERT.-The concert at the Working Men's Society's Room, Milk-street, on Monday evening, was on behalf of the fund for provid- ing a free tea to the aged poor. An excellent programme was contributed to by Messrs. H Rae, A and E Pitt, R Cundy, W and J White, S G Chase, Guest, Thorn, W Willey- Welsman, Punchard, and the Grecian Hand- bell Ringers. Before the Devonport magistrates on Wednesday, John Sweet, residing at Baker's- place, Richmond Walk, was summoned by his wife, Elizabeth, for assaulting her -There was a cross-summons against the wife for a similar o@ﬀence.-Mr. Bickle Bond, Pearce and Bickle appeared for the husband, and asked for an adjournment. Terms had been o@ﬀered, and an agreement was to be drawn up legally.-The case was adjourned for a week. Before the Mayor Mr J B James , Dr. G A Rae, Messrs J W @Ryder, R B Welch, W Peek, G T Rolston, G Thorne, and H Williams, at the Devonport Police Court on Wednesday Frederick Cole, grocer, George-street, was summoned at the instance of the inspector under the Food and Drugs Act Mr. G T Geaton @@@for selling adulterated co@ﬀee in November last.-Mr. J P Goldsmith prosecuted.-Defendant admitted the o@ﬀence, and said his wife, who was not in the business, unfortunately sold it without the protecting label. He had no desire to evade the law. -The Mayor said the Magistrates were of opinion that it was not inadvertently, and in@ﬂicted a @ﬁne of 5s and costs. At the Higher Barracks, Exeter, on Monday ing a court-martial was held for the purpose of trying Private George Pring, of the Depôt Devon Regiment, for desertion, and losing by negleet, his clothing, @c@. The president was Major Spratt, the other o@ﬀicers present being Captain Johnstone Royal Artillery and Lieutenant Radcli@ﬀe Depôt Devon Rogiment . It appears that the prisoner deserted his regiment at Maker Fort, Plymouth, in April, 1893, and surrendered at Exeter on November 21st last. The sentence passed at that day's hearing will have to be sent to the Comman- dant for con@ﬁrmation, and will be made known in due course. At a meeting of the Burgesses of the Strand Ward held at the British Schools, Torquay, on Monday, under the presidency of Alder- man Bovey, it was decided to support the candidature of Miss Webb, of Meadfoot- villa, was one of the two guardians for the ward. It was proposed to accept the candidature of Councillor Wills as the other guardian. Another proposition was made in favour of Mr. Pridham.-@It was eventually decided to leave these two gentlemen to settle the matter between themselves, it being stated that Mr. Wills' nomination paper had been sent  -Members of the Exeter Y@.M.C.A. gave their third annual gymnastic display at the Barn@ﬁeld Hall on Monday evening. The Right Worshipful the Mayor Alderman A. Steele-Perkins , who was accompanied by Miss Perkins, presided over a large attendance, and after referring to the great advantages of gymnastic exercises, said praise was due to their honorary teacher, who for two years had devoted so much time to their training with no hope of reward beyond the satisfaction of doing good service to his fellow creatures. It was not always pre@aching about others that did so much good as the silent in@ﬂuence of duty manfully and thoroughly performed. The gymnasts, before going through their drill, presented a bouquet to the Mayoress.  -Bideford Conservative Association held its annual dinner at the Music Hall on Wednesday Major Kirkwood Chairman of the Associa- tion, presiding over a company of about 350 persons. After the usual loyal and patriotic toast. Mr. W. A. Roberts proposed Bideford Working Men's Association, which was acknowledged by Major Kirkwood, and Sir Cameron Gull Unionist candidate for the division in responding to the toast of the Unionist cause submitted by Mr. C. Garvice, said he thought they might con- gratulate themselves upon the fact that in all parts of the division the Unionist party was in excellent heart they had an excellent example a few days ago at Barnstaple, and they had another excellent example that night in that enthusiastic gathering. They had only one wish, and that was to @ﬁght their battle and the sooner they got the opportunity the better they would be pleased. Applause. They had leaders whom they could trust, and who could lead and they had a policy that re- quired no gentle handing to commend it to the people of this country, a policy aiming at the health and home happiness of the people, and at the peace and prosperity of the country. Their opponents had programmes without end, and perhaps the leading mark of their policy was the attempt to stir up class against class. They had leaders whom they followed, but who could not agree amongst themselves. He had been accused of saying at Watermouth that the Unionist party would repeal the Budget he had never said anything of the sort What did he say, and what he said now, was that it was most unwise in the present state of depression to place more burdens upon the land. With regard to Mr. Billson's rimming on the compensation  at the Imperial Hotel, Torquay, for the winter. Dr. Hawkin, senior member of the Royal College of Surgeons, died at Lowell, Dorset- shire, this morning in his 99th year. The Oxford University Silver Cup for the best marksman in the company has been awarded to Mr. A. S. Scott, son of the Rev. W. Scott, of Exeter. Mr. H. A. Willey has presented to the trustees of the Bible Christian Chapel, Exeter, two handsome overhanging lamps for the doors of the Chapel. Mr. F. G. S. Taylor, son of Councillor T. Taylor, of Torquay, was on Monday married to Miss Alice M. Johnson, daughter of Mr. S. Johnson, borough treasurer. At a fortnightly meeting of the Loyal Fidelity Lodge, Manchester Unity of Oddfellows, at Barnstaple on Monday evening, Mr. A. Billson, M.P., was initiated an hon. member of the Lodge. The Duke of Bedford, in a letter to Mr. G. W. Holder, the promoter of a concert held in Peterborough last night on behalf of the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution, sent a cheque for one hundred pounds towards its funds On Monday at the Working Men's Society's Rooms Mr. Bishenden will give his complete lecture on Voice and Singing, including a short concert with songs and solos by his pupils, the Misses Cruttwell, Garnham, Wreford, and Mrs. Bishenden, Messrs. Chandler, Hitt, Ballan, and C. J. Bishenden. These singers will include four octaves of notes between them DEATH OF  G@EARE.-We regret to have to announce the death of Mr. John Gullett Geare, formerly of Paragon House, South-street. and afterwards of No. 1, Fair Park which event took place at the latter residence on Monday at the ripe old age of 86 years. The deceased was of a very charitable disposition, and most of the institutions of the city have bene@ﬁted by his generosity. The following were the scores made by the members of C and D Companies Exbourne , 4th V.B.D.R., who competed for the Sir Massey Lope's Cup and money prizes -Sergt F Lewis 94. Lnce-Corpl W Ward 92, Corpl W Letheren 89, Pte E Tucker 84, Corpl H J Ward 82, Major Biddell 81, Pte G Glanville 80. Pte J D Lewis 77, Corpl W S Lewis 76, Sergi Pearse 68, Colr-Sergt Weeks 68, Lnce- Corpl Rich 64. EXMOOR.-On Tuesday at St. James' Guilds' Schoolroom, Mr. H. Owen Scott gave his interesting and racy description of Rambles in the Lorna Doone Country. His remark were illustrated by a hundred beauti- ful photographic slides, depicting the most picturesque objects on and around Exmoor, and the entertainment was most enjoyable throughout. It is satisfactory to learn that the Funds of the Parish Rooms will be increased as a result by several pounds.  -A gas explosion occurred in a second-hand furniture shop occupied by Mr. Shobrook, at Russell-street, Plymouth, on Thursday, blowing out the shop front and the windows of the @ﬁrst @ﬂoor. A large portion of the ceiling fell in and much damage was done to the furniture. The only personal injury was to a lady, who was passing at the time and re- ceived some nasty cuts from the @ﬂying glass.  York-place, Coombe@ - street, yesterday, Mr. Coroner Hooper held an inquiry into the circum- stances attending the death of William John Scanes, aged one year and eleven months, who died on Thursday morning.-William Scanes, a warehouseman, residing at No. 6, York@-place, Coombe-street, identi@ﬁed the body as that of his son, who had recently been @suﬀering from measles.-Mrs. Mary Lee, who had nursed the child during the measles, said it died on Thursday about 4 a.m.-Dr. Brash deposed that death was due to con- gestion of the lungs after measles.-The jury returned a verdict of Death from natural causes.  last monthly meeting of the year was held on Thursday evening at the Guildhall, under the presidency of the Chairman of Committee. The prize money won locally was paid, and prize and commendation cards distributed. The chairman read letters from the judges at the recent show, and stated that many communications had been received from the hon. secretaries expressing great satisfaction at the show arrangements, the accurate re@turn of the exhibits, the prompt despatch of catalogues with the awards, and the artistie design and novel conception of the prize cards. Mr. H. Bazeley Starcross and Mr. E Northway Exeter were appointed auditors. Several notices of alteration of the rules were handed in, and will be decided at the annual general meeting to be held at the Guildhall on January 3rd.  for the week ending 6th December, 1894 -Discharged patients Cured 7, bene@ﬁted 2, made out-patients 13, own request 1, died 1. Number of in-patients after the admission last Thursday 167, admitted during the week 14-181 dis- charged during the week 24, total in the house 157. At the weekly meeting of the committee, held this afternoon, the secretary reported the receipt of the following -Pheasants from Mr. Charles D. Cave books, @c., from the Religious Tract Society, dolls and articles of clothing from Mr. Albert J. Hamlin. Church collections-Sidbury £5 5s, Bidestowe £2 4s. New subscription-Rev. J. Loveband Francis £1 1s. Return of income tax £88 9s. The donations for the building fund received up to the present amount to £3,713 10s, further subscriptions being earnestly solicited.   M. A., formerly of Sherwill Chapel, Plymouth, has died suddenly. At Exmouth Police Court on Wednesday-before General Rocke-Samuel Lear, tramp. was sent to prison for four days for hawking without a license. Mr. W. G. Peter, of the Castle of Exeter, and well known in the fowl world, was awarded a second prize at the Birmingham Show on Wednesday. Mr. A. Goulston, of Mont-le-Grand, Heavi- tree, has been elected a warden of the Worshipful Company of Curriers of London, and Deputy Halse the other warden. A marriage has been arranged between Lieutenant-Colonel Howard, Ri@ﬂe Brigade, and Gertrude, second daughter of Mr. Hugh Conyngham Boyd, of Woodside, Torquay. Mr. Thomas Tunstall, locomotive foreman at the Newton Railway Station for the past eighteen years, has resigned after forty-nine years' service on the Great Western Railway. Mr. M. S. Cox, headmaster of the Moreton- hampstead Boys' School, was on Monday pre- sented by the teachers and scholars with a revolving electro-plated cruet as a wedding gift. Mr. James Tucker, of St. Thomas, was on Monday installed W.M. of Semper Fidelis Lodge No. 1,254 , of Free- masons, at the Freemason's Hall, Gandy- street.  second competition for the Morris tube prizes took place on Tuesday evening, the following being the best scores -Private Cooper 35. Lance- Corporal Browne 34, Sergeant Easton 33, Color-Sergeant Dy@mond 31, Hon Member Baker 31, Private Westlake 28. At the Topsham Barracks on Thursday a court-martial was held for the purpose of trying Driver Smith, of the 56@th Battery Royal Artillery, on a charge of desertion and losing by neglect his clothes. Major Spratt was the president. and Captain and Adjutant Briggs 1st V.B.D.R and another o@ﬀicer of the Royal Horse Artillery were also present.-Sentence was passed, and will be made known in due course.-The sen- tence in the case of Private Pring, of the Devon Regiment, who was tried by court-martial a few days since for desert- ing at Maker Fort, has been made known. He is to be imprisoned for eighty-four days.  -At the Sessions Wednesday, before Admiral Dawkins, Mr N Baker, Captain Hodge, and Major Turner.-George Weare was @ned 5s inclusive for allowing a horse to stray at Marldon on November 21st.-@John T. Hill, a young carpenter whose wages he said as improver, were 17s a week, was summoned by Emma Crispin to shew cause, @c. He admitted the paternity and was ordered to pay 2s 6d per week till the child is 16, and £2 1s expenses and advocates ſee.-On the charge of cruelty to a horse against John Bowden, on the application of Inspector Craigen, the case was adjourned to Brixham Sessions next Wednes-  ofSir Cameron said a Mr. Uran had remarked that after his t@he speaker's views upon compensation temper- ance friends would have nothing to hope for from such a candidate. He wondered what temperance friends had to hope for from Mr. Billson after his conversion  Applause.  the meeting of the St. Thomas School Board on Thursday evening, those also present being the Revs C D Blakiston and C H Williams, Messrs H B Varwell, J Stokes, and J Bates.-Messrs Stocker and Stokes were appointed the Visiting Committee for the month.-The auditor's report showed there was no de@@ﬁcit in the accounts.-Mr J Bates moved that the resolution passed in October that teachers' salaries be paid quarterly be rescinded, and that the salaries be paid monthly.-Mr. Stokes seconded, and the motion @was carried unanimously.-Mr Bates then moved that a meeting of the Board be held on the 25th of each month to draw cheques for that purpose, but this found no seconder.-Mr. Stokes moved, and Mr. Varwell seconded, that the cheques be signed at the Board's ordinary meeting. This was carried. A  Tor- quay on Thursday, Frederick Morse, cab- driver, was summoned for assaulting John Grist in Torwood-street, Torquay, last Satur- day.-Mr S Shea appeared for the com- plainant, and Mr T B Eastley for the defen- dant.-Mr Shea asked that all witnesses be ordered out of Court. This was agreed to, and the ex-Mayor rose, amid considerable laughter, to go out, saying that he believed he was a witness@-Both sides, however, agreed that Mr Shrubb should remain.-The case for prosecution was to the e@ﬀect that on the day in question at the Torwood-street cab-stand, complainant was talking to defendant's daughter, when Morse called out to her to come away from him as he was a-scoundrel and ought to be in Exeter Gaol, Afterwards complainant protested against these remarks. A few words resulted Complainant remarked, I never took corn out of another man's stable.' Then the defendant rushed at him in a @ﬁghting attitude and knocked him down. Mr. Shrubb came along just then and endeavoured to make peace by suggesting that the men should shake hands. Com- plainant, however, said he could not do this. -In cross-examination, complainant ad- mitted that after the battle was over - laughter -@he did say as to the statement about taking corn that there was a man up behind who could prove it. John Vicary, a cabman, also give evidence. He said it was generally stated that there had been illfeeling between the parties. Morse did not strike Grist till he had been accuse@d @@of stealing corn.-At this point Mr. Eastley applied that his client be allowed to withdraw his plea@ not guilty and substitute one of guilty and that he be allowed to address the Bench in mitigation. This course was agreed to, and after hearing a@n address from Mr. Eastley the Bench @ﬁned defendant £1 inclu- sive the costs amounting to 17s or fourteen days. Defendant  monthly meeting of the Exeter School Board was held on Thursday at the o@ﬀices, Mr. T. Andrew presiding. There were also present the Rev @W W Howard, Messrs R R M Daw, W H Dunn, W G Seager, J A Loram, and A J Mackey.-Mr. Howard reported that as instructed he had had a conference with Mr F J Harvey, of St. Leonard's-road, in regard to his proposal to give courses of lessons to teachers and pupils on Swedish drill, physical exercises, c., under the new code.-Mr Harvey was willing to instruct the teachers for £18 the year, and the scholars for £11 5s the @ﬁrst term, instruction being given once a week, and £5 each for the other two terms instruction once a fortnight.-It was decided to adopt the principle of a permanent teacher, and to refer the matter to the School Manage- ment Committee with power to appoint. THE  was a crowded audience at the Rougemont Assembly Rooms on Wednesday at the piano and vo@cal recital given by Mr. Leonard Borwick and Mr. Plunket Greene, and the performances of the two gifted artists were received with the warmest demonstrations of approval. Mr. Borwick proved himself to be a pianist of great executive ability and power, and these qualities found no better expression than in Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody, for which he was recalled twice to the platform. He was also very successful in a caprice by Saint-Saëns on ballet airs from Alcoste de Gluck, in which he produced a remarkable singing tone in the themes. Mr. Plunket Greene highly pleased his audience with his vocal contributions to a most enjoyable concert. The pianos- splendid instruments -@were by Messrs. Steinway.  -Fine weather favoured the large numbers of buyers, farmers and others who attended the Wellington market on Thursday, The supply both of beasts and sheep was except- ionally large and the quality was universally acknowledged to be excellent.-Best quality bee made from 10s 6d to 13s a score. and the prices realised for sheep was not above the average. The prize list was as follows -Best fat ox or steer, silver cup value £5, given by Mr E C Sanford-Mr J Kidner. Fat ox or steer, silver cup value £3 3s given by Sir Alex Acland Hood, M.P., -Mr H Ewens. Fat heifer, silver cup value £3-1. Mr H Amery 2, Mr H Ewens. Best pen of @ﬁve short wool fat wethers, prize of £2 2s-Mr H Ewens second prize one guinea. Mr H Ewens. The annual dinner was held at the King's Arms Hotel, and Sir Alex Acland Hood, M.P., presided and dis- tributed the prizes.  last meeting of t@his Board was held on Thursday under the presidency of Mr. H. L. Friend in the chair. There were also present Messrs J Manning, J B Avant, J Horsham, J H G Lamacraft, W C Tapper, E H Bayldon, E A Paradoe, J Shapter. -The Medical O@ﬀicer of Health Dr. Harvey reported that there was no noti@ﬁcation of disease during the month and that the health of the town was very satisfactory.-Mr Charles Edmunds, baker, wrote calling atten- tion to the drains at the back of his premises in Stockton-road. Owing to the recent @ﬂood he had had a continual @ﬂow of water right through his yard, passages, house, and shop, and he had been compelled to dip it out in bucketfuls. The @ﬂoods had spoilt 30s worth in canvas. mats, and carpets, for which he should ask the Board to pay compensation. This was the third winter he had sustained a similarloss.-Mr. Lamacraft said the drain was not large enough to carry away the surface water.-The Clerk said the Sanitary Authority was not liable.-It was decided not to allow the claim, and, on the motion of Mr. Tapper, it was resolved that the Surveyor should see into the drain and report on the matter. -The Clerk said this was the last meeting of the Board, which had been in existence since 1860. He had been clrk to the body for the last twenty years, and during that time he had always done all in his power for the Board, and he would in the future try to do his duty for the District Council.-The Chairman said all the members would join with him in expressing their thanks to the Clerk for the able manner in which he had discharged his duties.-Mr. Avant spoke in a similar strain, and Mr. Whidborne returned thanks and said he was exceeding obliged for the compliment.-Mr. A. Curtis, of Piermont-place, claimed 13s 6d for damage sustained through the recent @ﬂoods, but it was not entertained. Coal Merchants, T. B. Pur@nell and Sons, High-street. To enjoy your Dinners, get your Joins, @c., from HUTCHINGS and SON, who supply only the Best Devon Ox Beef and Wether Mutton pro- curable. The Best is Cheapest. Telephone No. 80.-Advt. NEW ARRIVAL.-Apricot Jam 1s. per 2lb glass at FRASER'S, London Inn Square, Exeter.  @c., Stone's Murici- dine is the most Powerful Poison for destroying Mice, Rats, and other vermin. 31 6d. and @1s. Packets of Chemists. Pro- prietors Stone and Son. Exeter.@-@ Hair-cutting Rooms are open from 9 a.@m. to 7 p.m., and on Saturdays from 9 to 6 o'clock. Reliable assistants and every attention pal@l to customers. 30, High- street@ £500 Will be paid to the Legal Personal Representa- tive of any person KILLED BY AN ACCIDENT OCCURRING TO THE RAILWAY TRAIN by which he or she may be travelling as an ordinary passenger within the limits of the United Kingdom or £250 Will be paid to any such pas-@ senger losing two limbs or two eyes, or a limb and an eye, as the direct result of such accident or £250 Will be paid to any such pas- senger losing two  as the direct result of such accident@  the pas- senger in question had upon his or her person a copy of the current issue of Tre@wman's Exeter Flying Post. See footnote .@ 2 That prior to the accident the person in question had a@ﬀixed his or her usual signature, written in ink or pencil, in the place provided. See footnote . 3@ That notice of the accident be given to the Corporation guaranteeing this certi@ﬁcate within seven days of its occurrence. 4 That death or injury as aforesaid result within three months of the date of such accident. 5 This Insurance is limited to the payment of one of the above sums to any one person, and no person can claim in respect of more than one certi@ﬁcate. 6 The Insurance under this Certi@ﬁcate extends from the morning of the date of this paper to the Friday midnight following. The due ful@ﬁlment of the above Certi@ﬁcate is undertaken by THE GENERAL ACCIDENT ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED. An ANNUAL subscriber in advance to Trewman's Exeter Flying Post is NOT required to comply with Clauses 1 and 2 as to signing or carrying this Certi@ﬁcate, provided his subscrip- tion has been pain and his name has been regis- tered at the publishing o@ﬀice of this paper-Exeter-and provided the subscription has not expired at the time of the accident.  w-str Meeting 10, School 10.45, Preaching Service preacher Rev. E. Francis newly elected Pastr. After- noon, 2 30, School, 2.45, Men' conducted by the Pastor. 6.30, Prea@ching Service preacher, Rev. E. Francis newly elected Pastor  South-street .-Chap anniversary. 10.45. Morning Service preacher, Rev. D. P. McPherson, B.D subject, Christian Harvest Home. 6.3 Evening Service preacher, Rev. D@.  McPherson, B.D., subject, The Preacher and the Chancellor.@ @, Prayer Meeting 10 45, Service. Evening, 5.45, Prayer Meeting 6.30,  annual subscription to Tre@wman's Exeter Flying Post is 2s 2d or by post direct fro@@m the publishing o@ﬀice, Exeter, 4s 4d. If payment is made through a ne@wsagent, his receipt must be forwarded to the publishing o@ﬀice for registration of the subscriber's name and  @STOCK SHARE @BROKER 16, BEDFORD CIRCUS,  LONDON PRICES. Special Dealing in West of Barland Invest@men COMMERCIAL INTELLIGENCE.  opened steady,  mark a recovery. Goschen's Consols remain unaltered for money and account. Home Railways quiet but the tone is @ﬁrm. Berthas, Doras, and Berwicks have each gained ¼. Brums, however, are ¼ lower. The Foreign market is neglected and changes unimportant. Italians dull and have receeded 3-16. Argentine issues good. Funding Loan has risen ½, Grand Trunks good in sympathy with Yankees. First Preference and Guaranteed have advanced 1, Seconds ¾, Third@ ⅜, and Ordinary Stock ⅛. Mexican and Nitrate Railways lifeless and quotations remain unchanged. American Railways good and prices have advanced in consequence of better advices from New York. New York Centrals mark a gain of 1¼. Denver Preferences and Milwaukees ⅞, Canadas and Union Paci@ﬁcs ½, Ontarios ⅜, Central Paci@ﬁcs, Illinois, Centrals, Louisvilles, Missouris, Norfolks, and Atchison Shares ¼. Mining Shares are fairly steady. Chartered British 3d better at 42s 6d. Gold@ﬁelds un- changed at 3¼xd. STOCK A@ND  Ships pass thro@uth the electric light in eight minutes under 2 hours. Without the light 31  is the time usually  Nose and @throat Diseases, says The Glycerine Jujubes prepared by James Epps and Co. are of undoubted service as a curative or pallative agent. while Dr. Gordon Holmes, Senior Physician to the Municipal Throat and Ear In- ﬁrmary, writes After an extended trial, I have found your Glycerine Jujubes of consider- able bene@ﬁt in almost all forms of throat disease. The Durham miners have agreed to the rules proposed for a Conciliation Board in Durham. Mr. Balfour has de@ﬁnitely decided not to accept the invitation of the Swansea Conser- vatives to visit the town and speak next  4, 1 6, 1 8 and 2 - per  progress has the great wheel which is to be the lea feature of the Empire Court next year. Quite half  circle has been already ﬁxed. Xmas. Hampers! Xmas. Hampers!  M@AZ@A@
 the dry and withered grass around us. We now lay down to rest ourselves, and the boy soon fell asleep I was however feverish and restless, and could not close my eyes. In an hour and a half I arose, got up the horses and saddled them, and then, awaking my companion, we again pushed on by moonlight. At ten miles we crossed a well‐beaten native pathway, plainly discernible even then, and this we followed down towards the cli@ﬀs, fully hoping it would lead to water. Our hopes, however, had been excited but to render our disappointment the greater, for upon tracing it onwards we found it terminate abruptly at a large circular hole of limestone rock, which would retain a considerable quantity of water after rains, but was now without a single drop. Gloomily turning away we again pushed on for eight miles further, and at three in the morning of the 10th were compelled to halt from downright exhaustion and fatigue. The horses and sheep were knocked up. The poor boy was so tired and sleepy that he could scarcely sit upon his horse, and I found myself actually dosing as I walked mechanically my legs kept moving forwards, but my eyes were every now and then closed in forgetfulness of all around me, until I was suddenly thrown down by get- ting entangled amongst the scrub, or aroused by a severe blow across the face from the recoil of a bough after the passage of the boy's horse. I now judged we had come about ninety‐three miles from Yeerkum‐ban‐kauwe, and hoped that we could not be very far from water. Having tied up the horses for an hour or two, and without making a @ﬁre, or even unrolling our cloaks to cover us, we stretched ourselves on the ground, and were in a few moments fast asleep. @@March 10.-At @ﬁve we were again on our route, every moment expecting to see a break in the line of cli@ﬀs along which we had now travelled so far. Alas ! they still con- tinued stretching as far as the eye could see to the west- ward, and as fast as we arrived at one point which had bounded our vision and beyond which we hoped a change might occur , it was but to be met with the view of another beyond. Distressing and fatal as the continuance of these cli@ﬀs might prove to us, there was a grandeur and sub- limity in their appearance that was most imposing, and which struck me with admiration. Stretching out before us in lofty unbroken outline, they presented the singular and romantic appearance of massy battlements of masonry, supported by huge buttresses, and glittering in the morn- ing sun which had now risen upon them, and made the scene beautiful even amidst the dangers and anxieties of our situation. In a direct line of upwards of 800 miles thus gone over by Mr Eyre, there does not seem to have been a watercourse, or a hollow of any kind, crossed and not a drop of fresh water accessible on the surface. It could only be obtained by dig- ging close to the sea‐shore, or the sand@‐hills of the coast and even by that means was often not pro- curable for distances of 160 miles together. The dreary waste is described by Mr Eyre as an almost uniform table land of fossil formation, with an ele- vation of from three to @ﬁve hundred feet covered for the most part by dense impenetrable scrubs, and only varied on its surface by occasional sandy or rocky undulations. The dangers and su@ﬀerings of travel in such a region may be conceived as well as its generally uninteresting character. But every now and then a startling little trait occurs which gives the living touch of reality to the scene and again carries the reader forward, watchful and anxious for the traveller. In the following for instance. . . . I occupied myself in writing and charting during the day, and at night amused myself in taking stellar obser- vations for latitude. I had already taken the altitude of Vega, and deduced the latitude to be 32 deg. 3 min. 23 sec. S. leaving my arti@ﬁcial horizon on the ground outside whilst I remained in the tent waiting until Altair came to the meri- dian, I then took my sextant and went out to observe this star also but upon putting down my hand to take hold of the horizon‐glass in order to wipe the dew o@ﬀ, my @ﬁngers went into the quicksilver-the horizon‐glass was gone, and also the piece of canvas I had put on the ground to lie down upon whilst observing so low an altitude as that of Vega. Searching a little more, I missed a spade, a parcel of horse- shoes, an axe, a tin dish, some ropes, a grubbing‐hoe, and several smaller things which had been left outside the tent, as not being likely to take any injury from the damp. It was evident I was surrounded by natives, who had stolen all these things during the short time I had been in my tent, certainly not exceeding half an hour. The night was very windy, and I had heard nothing besides, I was encamped in the midst of a very dense brush of large wide‐spreading tea‐trees and other bushes, any of which would a@ﬀord a screen for a considerable number of natives. In daylight it was impossible to see many yards in distance, and nothing could be discerned at night. . . . As soon as I missed my horizon‐glass, and entertained the suspicion of natives being about. I hurried into the tent, and lighting a large blue light, run with it rapidly through the bushes around me. The e@ﬀect of this was very beauti- ful amidst the darkness and gloom of the woods, and for a great distance in every direction objects could be seen as well as by day the natives, however, were gone and I could only console myself by @ﬁring a couple of balls after them through the underwood, to warn them of the danger of intruding upon me again. I then put everything which had been left outside into the tent, and kept watch for an hour or two but my visitors came no more. . . . Rising very early, I set to work with an axe to clear away the bushes from around my tent. I now discovered that the natives had been concealed behind a large tea‐tree not twenty yar@ds from the tent there were numerous foot- marks there, and the remains of @ﬁre‐sticks which they had brought with them, for a native rarely moves at night with- out  the subject will @ﬁnd his information curious and ample. The matters treated of embrace not only the physical and moral state of the aborigines their habits of life, rude government, and social relations their language and dialects but also very interesting notices of the e@ﬀects of their contact with Europeans, and some valuable suggestions for an improvement in the system generally adopted towards them. Our extracts are limited by our space but to even readers familiar with Captain Grey's excellent dissertations, much of Mr Eyre's information will be new and original.  Wives are considered the absolute property of the hus- band, and can be given away, or exchanged, or lent, ac- cording to his caprice. A husband is denominated in the Adelaide dialect, Yongarra, Martanya the owner or pro- prietor of a wife . Female children are betrothed usually from early infancy, and such arrangements are usually ad- hered to still in many cases circumstances occur frequently to cause an alteration but if not, the girls generally go to live with their husbands about the age of twelve, and some- times even before that. Relatives nearer than cousins are not allowed to marry, and this alliance does not generally take place Female orphans belong to the nearest male re- lative, as also does a widow@, instead of to the nearest male relative of the husband, as was found to be the case in Western Australia by Captain Grey. Two or three months generally elapse before the widow goes to another hus- band but if the wife dies, the man takes another as soon as he can get one. If a woman, having young children, join another tribe, the children go with her but I am not aware whether they would remain permanently attached to that tribe or not. Brothers often barter their sisters for wives for themselves, but it can only be done with the parents' consent, or after their death. If a wife be stolen, war is always continued until she is given up, or another female in her place. There is no ceremony connected with the undertaking of marriage. In those cases where I have witnessed the giving away of a wife, the woman was simply ordered by the nearest male relative in whose disposal she was, to take up her ' rocko,' the bag in which a female carries the e@ﬀects of her husband, and go to the man's camp to whom she had been given. Marriage is not looked upon as any pledge of chastity, indeed no such virtue is recognised. But little real a@ﬀection consequently exists between husbands and wives, and young men value a wife principally for her ser- vices as a slave in fact, when asked why they are anxious to obtain wives, their usual reply is, that they may get wood, water, and food for them, and carry whatever pro- perty they possess. NATIVE MODESTY. Innate propriety of behaviour is also frequently exhi- bited by the Aborigines in their natural state, in the modest unasuming manner in which they take their positions to observe what is going on, and in a total absence of any- thing that is rude or oﬀensive. It is true that the reverse of this is also often to be met with but I think it will usually be found that it is among natives who have before been in contact with Europeans, or where familiarities have been used with them @ﬁrst, or an injudicious system of treat- ment has been adopted towards them. Delicacy of feeling is not often laid to the charge of the Aborigines, and yet I was witness to a singular instance of it at King George's Sound. I was looking one evening at the natives dancing, and who were, as they always are on these occasions, in a state of complete nudity. In the midst of the performance, one of the natives standing by as a spectator, mentioned that a white woman was passing up the road and although this was some little distance away, and the night was tolerably dark, they all with one accord crossed over to the bushes where their cloaks were, put them on, and resumed their amusement.  for its dullness than for any more lady‐like quality. LYCEUM. An excellent new farce was played here on Mon- day night better than any piece of its class which @@we have seen for many a day. It has nicety of@@ character, and a good broad humour. You laugh, and have no need to be ashamed of your mirth. There is neither caricature nor coarseness. We cannot stay to tell the plot which is a plot, and not told without some pains , but must brie@ﬂy counsel the playgoer to see Peter Jenkins. Mr and Mrs Keeley, Mr Wigan and Mr Meadows, complete an admirable cast. Mr Keeley is not only an honest truth‐telling fellow forced to tell lies for a friend but a con@ﬁrmed little bachelor, caught, willy‐nilly, in the snares of matrimony. His dilemmas are intense, and he does justice to them. FOREIGN  and implements and works of industry, in this part of the book, are useful to the text. THE THEATRICAL EXAMINER. Mr Eyre seems to have no hope, in spite of Capt. Sturt's cheering dispatches, that any inland sea will ever be ultimately discovered behind this vast unpromising table land. Can it be, he asks, that the whole is one immense interminable desert, or an alternation of deserts and shallow lakes ? Incidental to the narrative of the expeditions are many illustrations of native character but Mr Eyre, as @we before said, has collected all his many  tradesman of about @ﬁve feet four, with a Ramilie wig and tail more than half as big as himself, square‐cut buckram skirts, long @ﬂapped white waistcoat, and minute three‐cornered hat, who is passed o@ﬀ by a wag of a player upon a party of petticoat admirers of Pope, for the celebrated au- thor of the Dunciad. To fancy Mr Buckstone in this predicament, is to have a very clear notion of Mr Peake's amusing farce. It is nicely presented with abundance of pe- ruke for the gentlemen, and of hoods, clustering curls, cardinals, and little china, for the ladies and it perpetrates a vast many abominable jokes, which nobody but the actors and actresses can possibly be expected to laugh at. But this is the moral. The ladies are in such a state of frantic foregone admiration of Mr Pope, that the more audacious the @ﬂights of Mr Buckstone the wittier they are taken to be and though this is rather a danger- ous experiment for a farce, the audience help it ont with their good‐nature. Indeed it would take a troublesome amount of the other quality to withstand Mr Buckstone's practical points of drollery. When he takes o@ﬀ his wig in a sudden heat, for example, and exposes his small bald head. Swift's mouse under a canopy of state is nothing to it. When he e@ﬀects a series of practical Rapes of the Lock, too, he uses the scissors like a true poet. And when he passes from doing to su@ﬀering, tastes the griefs as well as glories of fame, and is well thrashed by Mr Curll's chairman as he leaves the player's house,-the act closed with a roar. There should have been no second. There is nothing but stale repetition in  DEATH  illustrious citizen died on the 4th inst., at his estate at Chateauvieux, near Saint‐Aignan, in the 82nd year of his age. M. Royer Collard had been President of the Chamber of De- puties, Member of the French Academy, and Professor of Philosophy at the College of France. THE  The vessels in- tended to act against the slave trade are not, says the ' Constitutionnel,' yet ready to proceed to the coasts of Africa. They are not to set out for six weeks or two months. Meanwhile communications are exchanged with England every day on the subject of the mission which the two navies are to ful@ﬁl together. Recently the Ad- miralty has drawn up regulations for day and night sig- nals, which the English and French cruisers are to make use of, in order to mutually recognise each other. It ap- pears that we have approved of all the dispositions of these regulations. It is divided into two parts the @ﬁrst concerning sailing vessels, and the other steamers. The English navy @has been long occupied for its own use with a regulation of this kind for steamers, collisions of which are both frequent and dangerous. In France, nothing has been done in that respect.  letter from Castres announces that the Marquis de Mor- nay has just arrived at Soultberg. If report can be be- lieved, the marquis, who was at Beauvais for the Council- General, quitted that town precipitately, in consequence of a pressing invitation from the Minister of War. The old marshal, who declares himself exceedingly fatigued with the struggles and di@@ﬃculties which he has to en- counter, particularly from Algeria, and who is besides tormented with a chronic cough, again talks of withdraw- ing from o@@ﬃce but, as to withdraw at his age is to give up public a@ﬀairs for ever, he is unwilling, he says, to take such a determination without consulting his family. The ' France ' discredits the report of the Marshal's retirement.  the 3rd inst., the Duke and Duchess de Ne- mours and the Duke d'Aumale, after visiting Biarritz and St Jean de Luz, arrived at the bridge which unites France with Spain. There the Princes alighted from their carriages and crossed the bridge on foot, accompa- nied by Count Bresson, the French Ambassador, the Pre- fect of the Department of the Lower Pyrenees M. Aze- vedo Gen. Boyer, Aid‐de‐Camp of the Duke de Ne- mours Col. Jamin, Aid‐de‐Camp of the Duke d'Aumale, c. On reaching the Spanish territory they were com- plimented by the Duke de San Carlos, a nobleman of the Queen's Bedchamber, and Senor Arana, Master of the Ceremonies of the Palace, in the name of the Queen, and by Senors Olozabal and Aldamar, in that of the province of Guipuzcoa. Gen. Barrenechea, commander of the pro- vince, received the French Princes at the head of the troops with all the honours due to their rank. The people, on their side, loudly cheered them. The august party slept at Tolosa, and entered Pampeluna on the following day. Accounts from Bayonne of the 8th state that they had returned to that town in good health, highly satis@ﬁed with the reception given them, not only at Pampeluna, but along the whole of their journey in Spain. The Duke d Aumale travelled back through the valley of Bastan on horseback.  ' Consti- tutionnel ' says - The Marquis de Villafranca is hourly expected at Paris. He comes to solicit, it is said, autho- risation for Don Carlos and the Princess to proceed to Rome, the climate of Bourges being injurious to the health of the Princess, who was born in Brazil. If M. de Villafranca does not obtain passports for Italy, he is directed to demand from the French Government per- mission for Don Carlos and the Princess to @ﬁx their resi- dence in such town of the south as they may choose. THE @The ' Journal des Debats ' states that on the occasion of the celebration of the fêtes of St Louis in the French church at Rome, the Pope and a considerable number of cardinals attended. M. Rossi, the French Plenipotentiary, opened the door of the carriage at the church door, and thanked his Holiness for the honour he had deigned to confer on the French church. The Pope, in a voice so loud that @he could be heard by the crowd assembled around him, replied that he had great pleasure in performing the pious duty, and that he should be happy that that expression of his senti- ments were known to the King of the French. After prayers, his Holiness retired to an adjoining apartment, where the ceremony of kissing his toe was gone throug@h by all the natives of France that presented themselves. GERMANY.  from Brunswick of the 3rd inst. state that @during three consecutive evenin
 any advertisement in the newspapers@. The case remains to be decided. It naturally excited much interest among the amateurs and artists, who crowded the Court, awaiting anxiously the  @was on Wednes- day charged with having pretended to tell the fortunes of several young girls. Sus@@an Scho@ﬁeld, a pretty girl, about 16 years of age, went about a month ago to the lodgings of the prisoner, in Webber@‐square, Shoreditch, and requested to have @her for- tune told. Mrs. Carr produced a pack of cards, which she shuf@ﬂed, and divided into several parcels, and said, the witness would have some truble very soon, b@ut it would end to @her satisfaction-that she would be married before she was 19, and would have nine children, all b@oys ! !@-that her husband would b a tall thin young man, of a darkish complexion. Mary Bell, another good‐looking girl, who appeared to be about the same age, said, that she was with Susan Scho@ﬁeld when she had her fortune told, as was also an- other girl. Mrs. Carr told all their fortunes, after going through a deal of ceremony with the cards. She told this gi@rl also that she would have great many children, all of whom would be very like their@ father ! !-The girl paid 1s. for telling three of them their fortunes. Elizabeth@@ Wood, another fortune‐teller, was also ex- amined before the same Magistrate. The prisoners were convicted as rogues and vagabonds, and committed to the House of Correction till the Sessions. ACCIDENTS, OFFENCES, @@@c. The Walpole India@man went ashore on Sunday at ten, А. M. o@ﬀ Margate though the ship is totally lost, the whole of t@he O@@ﬃcers, the crew and passengers, got safe on @shore. Mr. Sutton, the Chief O@@ﬃcer, had his arm badly fractured by the wheel, on the ship's striking. The greater part of the cargo is expected to be saved. Capt. Balders@ton, of the Parthian sl@oop of war, lately@ murdered on board that vessel w@hen getting under weigh from Plymouth to Corunna, was a native of Dover, in his @29th year, and universally esteemed. James Smith, the Master's‐mate, by whose hand he fell, is about 25 years of age, and son of a British Planter resident at Santa Cruz. @Revenge for being dis‐rated by Capt. Balderston, was the cause of this wicked act. The pistol which he used was loaded with two balls, one of which was @cut in four pieces. After loading the pistol @he sat down coolly to dinner, observing to his messmates that it was the last time he should dine with them and striking his hand violently against the table, he exclaimed, I'll know what I have been dis‐rated for, and will be @d-@m-d if I don't be revenged ! He then rushed on deck, and shot Capt. Bal@derston, who survived only an hour аnd a half, a@nd in excruciating pain. The murderer was instantly seized by L@ieut. Stevenson, and conveyed on board of the@@ Salvador del M@undo. So far from expressing contrition,@@ he declared that nothing but hurry of passion prevented his loading another pistol, with which it was his intention to have dispatched Lie@ut. Stevenson also, as he had only had half his revenge.-He was tried on Monday, and found guilty of the murder, making nо defence. Early on Sunday morning, the body of a respectably dressed man was found in the road leading from the bot- tom of Gray's@‐Inn‐lane road to Camden‐town. It proved to be Mr. Pester, a grazier, who resided in Cross‐street, Portland‐street. He left home after dinner, as he said, for a walk, and is supposed to have died f@ro@m the incle-@ me@ncy of the  wind@ yesterday week blew down one of t@h@e centry boxes in St. James's Park, near Duke‐street. The centinel was in it at the time@, and was so much bruised that he was taken to the Hospital with little hopes of recovery. BIRTHS. Last week a butcher's wife, in Ban@ﬀ, Scotland, was de- livered of three children, two boys and a girl, who, will the mother, are all in a fair way. MARRIAGES. On Tuesday last, Mr. Robert Gwilt, of Chelsea, 2d son of the Rev. Robert Gwilt, Rector of Ickl@ing@hams, All Saints, and St. James's, Su@ﬀolk, to Mary, eldest daughter of the late Henry Williams, Esq. of Nassau, New Providence. Yesterday se'nnight, at St. George, Hanover‐square, F. @H. Naylor, Esq. of @Welbeck‐street, to Maria Mealey, widow of L@ieut. Col. Ridgeway Mealey, late of the Mad- ras Establishment. @@On the 20th inst. at Marylebone Church, by the Rev. Dr. Hall, Canon of Christchurch, Henry Drury, Esq. Fel@low of King's College, Cambridge, to Caroline, second daughter of A. W. Taylor, Esq. of Bar@ha@m House, Herts. DEATHS. Yesterday week, at six o'clock, at his house in @Hert- ford‐street, the Earl of Liverpool, in the 80th year of his age the immediate cause of his death was a disorder in his bowels. His Lordship was the son of Colonel Charles Jenki@nson, the second son of Sir Robert Jenkinson, of @Hedlington, in Oxfordshire and @@in the year 1789, by the extinction of the elder branches of the family, he succeeded to the title of Baronet and to the fa@mily estates. In the year 1786, Sir Charles Jenkinson was created Lord Hawkesbury, and in 1796, Earl of Liverpool. During a considerable part of Mr. Pitt's long administra- tion, his Lordship was President @of the Board of Trade and his acquaintance with the commercial interests of the country, a@@nd with subjects of political economy, has been displayed in numerous Tracts, the greater part of which, however, were written on subjects creating a temporary interest, rather than illustrative of general principles. His Lordship through his life was more remarkable as a po- litician in the closet than as an orator in the Senate. For many years he was generally supposed to be high in the con@ﬁdence of his Majesty@@. By his death, the o@@ﬃces of CoIlector of the Customs Inwards for the Port of London. and Clerk of the Fells in Ireland, have become vacant. His Lordship was tw@ice married, and has left two sons, Lord @Hawkesbury, now Earl of Liverpool, and the @Hon. Charles Jenkinson. Suddenly, on Tuesday se'nnight, at his house, at Ted- dington, in the 68th year of his age, the Earl of At@hlone. He is succeeded in his titles and estates by Frederick Vis- count Aughrim, a lunatic.@@ On Tuesday se'nnig@ht, in Dublin, Theobald M'Kenna, Esq. He was a political writer of much celebrity, and enjoyed from Government a pension of 2001. per ann. @for past services. A few days since, at an advanced age, Andrew Shaw, well known at Portsmouth, for upwards of 30 years, as a bill‐sticker, @in which employ, by industry and frugality, he amassed more than 900@1. He was a soldier at the battle of Minden. Sunday, Mr. Thomas, butcher, in Lisle‐street.-He was perfectly well on Saturday, and the following day fell in a @ﬁt, out of which he apparently recovered, but was instantly seized with a shivering @ﬁt and expired. He was a middle‐aged man a very temperate liver. @@@@@Printed and published byJOH@NHUNT,  15, Bea@ufort Buildings, Strand.-Price 7 
@@@ LONDON, MO@NDAY, JANUARY 2, 1843.  to HAVRE in lieu of the  January A.M. Sunday, January  Thursday, Jan, 5 @@@@Sunday,  Wednesday, Jan. 25 @@OTICE is hereby given, that a SPECIAL@@@ GENERAL MEETING of the PROPRIETORS of the  RAILWAY COMPANY will be  on Monday, the 16th day of January now  TEAM for CORK, calling at PLYMOUTH.-The City of Dublin Steam Packet Company's  LEEDS, Captain R. @ing at PLYMOUTH, on Saturday  Eight o'clock. Passengers can embark at  Stairs, below the Tower.-O@@ﬃces,  G. Lefebure, Esq., Lower  sent for to any @part of town. All heavy goods, carriages, horses, @c. for shipment, to be sent to the Dublin Steam‐wharf, Irongate, adjoining the Tower. A  Lambeth.-A QUARTERLY COURT of the Guardians of @this Charity will be held at the Institution on Thurs-  5th, at Twelve o'clock  business. W. DAVIES, Sec. R OYAL FREEMASONS' SCHOOL for FE- MALE CHILDREN.-A QUARTERLY GENERAL COURT of this Institution will be holden at the Sc@hool‐h@ouse, Westminster- road, on Thursday, the 12th day of January, insta@nt, at twelve o'clock precisely. FRANCIS CREW, Secretary, January 1, 1843. 27, Lamb's  Election, will take  street, on Monday, January 16, 1848, when six Children will be elected. The Ballot will com- mence at Twelve o'clock, an@d the door of the room will be closed at Three precisely. After the Election the general business will be tran-. JOHN @DAVIS, A.M., Hon.Secretary. Applications to be made at the O@@ﬃce, No. 11, Abchurch‐lane, @on Wed@nesdays, from Eleven to Four o'clock or to the Assistant  Mr. J. Leach, 12, President‐street East, Gos- well‐road.  ASSOCIATION and BENEVO@LENT FUND, 60, King W@ London‐bridge,  30,  is hereby @given, that the SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL @MEETING of the MEMBERS of the Bene@ﬁt Department of this As- sociation will be held at these o@@ﬃces, on Monday Evening, the 16th  at Twelve, o'cloc@k precisely, for the purpose of consi- dering the expediency of authorising the Directors to apply to Par- liament in the ensuing Session for an Act to make a Branch Rail- way from the Main Line in the parish of Blisworth, in the county of Northampton, to the city of Pe@terborough, and to adopt such mea- sures as may be necessary to e@ﬀect that object.   F. LEDSAM, Deputy  By order, R. CREED, Secretary. O@@ﬃce, Euston Station, Dec. 31,  STOCK@.-QUARTER SHARES.-The THIRD CALL, being TWO POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS per SHARE,  on Tuesday. January 10th, 1843. Interest at  cent. will be charged, from the above date, on the amount of the Call unpaid and  on all Calls  will please to observe that the receipts for all  subse@quent to the  be given by the Bankers on the  evidence of payment being admissible. Scrip may be  by forwarding to this O@@ﬃce the receipt for the ﬁrst  of one or both of the ﬁrst and second Calls, are requested to make immediate payment of them with interest. H. G. WRIGHT, Sec. Edinburgh and Glasgow  O@@ﬃce, 2 NIVERSITY COLLEGE, London.-FA- CULTY of ARTS and LAWS. The LECTURES on the classes in this faculty will be RESUMED on Tuesday, the 10th of January, 1843. Such a division of the subject is made in most classes as enables a student to enter advantageously at this part of the course. GEORGE LONG. A.M., Dean. Dec. 1842. CHARLES C. ATKINSON, Secretary to the Council. @W ILSON'S SCOTTISH ENTERTAINMENTS.@@@@ -At the Music Hall, Store‐street, THIS EVENING, Ja- nuary 2, at Eight o'clock, Mr. WILSON will give his Entertainment, comprising the ADVENTURES of PR@INC@E CHARLES, with the illustrative Jacobite songs. Pianoforte, Mr. Land.-@@@Tickets, 2s. reserved seats, 2s. 6d. private @boxes for six, 15s. for eight, £1. G RAND BALL, Crown and Anchor Tavern, @@@@Strand.-Mr. CALDWELL begs to announce that his SE- COND grand PLAIN DRESS BALL this season will take place in the great room of the a@bove Tavern TO‐MORROW, January 3. -@Tickets, 3s. each, to be had at Mr. Caldwell's academy for dancing, @83, Dean-street, Soho bar of the Crown and Anchor principal music‐sellers. Mr. Caldwell will be happy to give instruc- tions to any party in a few easy lessons, so that they may take part in the quadrilles so often danced at this festive season. Terms  At this meeting vacancies, which  ard @o@@f Management and Generalcia- tion, sig@ned by seven members, this meeting is made s@pecial, to ap- point a Committee to revise rules@@@@@@. GEORGE THOMAS, Chairman. N.@B. The Annual General Meeting of the Benevolent Department will be held on the 6th of February next, of which due notice will be given. R OYAL SANTIAGO MINING COMPANY.-Notice is hereby given, that the GENERAL MEETING of the SHARE@HOLDERS will be held at the o@@ﬃce of the company on  the 4th of January next, at One o'clock precisely, when the directors will make their report and declare a dividend. 38, @Broad‐street‐buildings, December 16,  Court of Directors of the ST. KATHA-@ RINE DOCK COMPANY do hereby give notice, that a GENERAL HALF‐YEARLY MEETING of the PROPRIETORS will be held at the Dock‐house, Tower‐hill, in the county of Middle- sex@, on Tuesday, the 17th day of January next, at Twelve o'clock at noon, for the purpose of declaring a DIVIDEND on the Capital Stock of the Company, for the Half‐year ending the 31st instant, when the accounts @of receipts and disbursements of the said Com- pany, for the year ending the 31st Instant, will be laid before the Proprietors, which accounts will be ready for examination or in- Section, by such Proprietors, on and after the 3d day of January next. T@he @@Books of the Company will close on Saturday, the 24th Instant, and open on Monday, the 23d day of January next. By order of the Court, JOHN HALL, Secretary. St. Katharine Dock‐house, Dec. 20, 1842. N.B. The chair will be taken at One o'clock precisely.  Broad‐street, Lon@don, December 17, 1842. Notice is hereby given, that a SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders of the Angle Mexican Mint Company will be held at this Oﬃce, on Wednesday, the 4th of January next, to take into con- sideratio@n the expediency of raising additional capital for the pur- poses of the Company. The chair will be taken at two o'clock precisely. G. B. LONSDALE, Sec. C HARITABLE CORPORATION.-The Court @@@@@of Proprietors of this corporation have declared a DIVIDEND of ONE SHILLING and SIXPENCE, a SHARE, which will be PAID at Mr.  o@@ﬃce, Guildhall‐buildings, London, on the 10th of January inst@ant. S OUTH AUSTRALIAN COMPANY-DIVI DEND.-The Directors of the South Australian C@ompany giv notice, that the HALF‐YEAR'S DIVIDEND, at the rate of Four pe Cent. per Annum on the paid up Capital, due 31st instant, will @be PAYABLE at the Company's O@@ﬃces, on Monday, January 16, 1843, and every subsequent day, between the hours of Eleven and Three. The Transfer Books of the Company will be closed from 2d to 9th  HEN@RY RUSSELL'S SECOND  will take place at the  of the applicant.-Applications to be made in writing, to A. Z., at Mr. Blenkar@n's, law bookseller, 19, Chancery‐lane, London, with real name and address age, quali@ﬁcations, terms, and references. S ECRETARY WANTED.-The Projectors of a Public Company, now in course of formation, require a SE- CRETARY, who must be of @ﬁrst‐rate address, thoroughly conver- sant with business, and of highly respectable connections. He will be required to invest £1,000 in shares. Salary to commence in a few months , about £200 per annum at @ﬁrst, and increasing with the suc- cess of the undertaking.-Address pre-paid to C. F., Messrs. Risley and Chappell, solicitors, Quality-court, Chancery-lane. T O PARENTS.-A Solicitor one of a @ﬁrm in extensive practice in the immediate vicinity of the Temple has a VACANCY for an ARTICLED PUPIL, who would board with the advertiser at his private residence at the west‐end of town. Pre- mium for the @ﬁve years, £400. The most unexceptionable references would be given and required.-Address, C. F., care of Messrs. Richards, law booksellers, 194, Fleet‐street. T O PARENTS and GUARDIANS.-WANTED, a respectable Youth, about @ﬁfteen or sixteen, as an APPREN- TICE to an old‐established SURGEON‐DENTIST. The pupil would have unusual advantages for excelling in his profession, being under the constant superintendence of the advertiser, who is himself a thorough practical man, both in the surgical and mechanical part but he will be required to board and lodge with his friends. A mo- derate premium.-For further particulars apply by letter pre‐paid , with @real name and address to A. B., Mr. Pollock, surgeon, 26, Hat- ton‐garden. F RIDAY‐STREET.-To be LET, or the LEASE to be SOLD of capital PREMISES, most desirably situate, being in the centre of the Linen and Silk Markets comprising an extensive and light warehouse on the ground @ﬂoor, large warehouse on the @ﬁrst @ﬂoor, with parlour and kitchen, drawing room and bed rooms over, large dry cellars in the basement, @@c. c.-Farther par- ticulars may be had of Toplis and Son, No. 16, St. Paul's Church- yard. S TAMFO@RD‐HILL.-@To be LET on Lease, by Messrs. WINSTANLEY.-A commodious detached RESI- DENCE, suited for a respectable family, pleasantly situate as above, containing seven bed chambers, three sitting rooms, kitchen and o@@ﬃces, with good stabling, coachhouse, excellent garden, lawn and @greenhouse. The whole well supplied with spring and soft water.-For terms and cards to view, apply at No. 10, Paternoster‐row or to Mr. John Combe, solicitor, No. 9, Staple‐inn, Holborn. V ALUABLE BUILDING GROUND.-Several@@ PLOTS of GROUND on the Marquess of Exeter's estate in the vicinity of t@he Strand, aren. @E DUCATION.-Terms £5 per Quarter, in- cluding board, instruction either for professional    , clothing extra. No  unexceptionable    as to the treatment of the pupils, liberal diet, and system of education. Cards may be had at Peele's  street, London,  @Mr.  the Proprietor of  by Stephen. West@moreland, may be seen  and Two  and LIBERAL@@ MISCELLANY.-Arrangements h@aving been made with writers of  will henceforth furnish  Tales, and  in accordance with the spirit of the age. Illustrations will be given with each Number, and the price being re- duced to 1s. 6d., it will come within the reach of every person de- s an entertaining miscellany. Sherwood and Co.,  wanted who understands the @general business of a school also a half boarder.-Cards of address, 4, Little Britain and Mr. Oram's, 27,  -WINTER CLASS@ES.-122, Regent‐street.- A pupil will acquire mere in @ﬁve or  weeks on this system of the speaking and useful knowledge of a language than in two years on the old.@ -Edinburgh Review. This is the greatest improvement of the age. Westminster Review.-M. D'USAYER, M.A., assisted by Foreign Professors, and a Graduate of Oxford, is now forming ADULT CLASSES for the  8. Bankrupt Bank@@@@@s 9. Nursery Rhymes for Sucking Politicians 10. Art‐Unions  12. The Patrician's Daughter 13. Facts and Figures. Miscellaneous Notices. Books, Drama, Music, @c.  Library, 19., @Holles‐street. B ULL'S NEW SYSTEM FOR FAMILIES AND BOOK SOCIETIES. Families paying £6 6s. the year have all the New and Standard Works they order, twelve volumes at a time in town, or twenty-four in the country. Catalogues and boxes free of expense and two guineas' worth of the new books to keep at the end of each year. @@Societies can subscribe at the rate of@ 14s. per member only. The new past catalogues, with full particulars, sent gratis and post free. -Apply to Mr. Bull, librarian, as above. T O ADVERTISERS.-@The First Number of the ILLUSTRATED POLYTECHNIC REVIEW a Journal de- voted to Science, the Fine Arts, and @Literature , which will be pub- lished on the 7th of January, 1843, will be circulated to the extent of 30@,000  a@nd presents a @ﬁrst‐rate medium for advertise@ments.-O@@ﬃce, 143, Strand. D AILY LIST of PRICES of the various FUNDS and SHARES in which business is chie@ﬂy trans- acted, accompained with such remarks at the frequent change of  3. Lines from OElenschloeger 4. The @Farmer's Fireside, Illus- trated by Zeitter. Corn‐law Tales, No. 1 5. China and the Tea Things 6. Lord Brougham and David @Hume on Miracles 7. Song from Beranger  a Novel,@@ by Daniel Hardeastle, jun., with Illustrations. EDITED BY THOMAS HOOD, ESQ. ILLUSTRATED BY L@EECH. The January Number for 1843, of @@C OLBURN'S NEW MONTHLY MAGAZINE AND HUMORIST. Contains the following interesting  the late@INMENT will take place at the Hanover‐square Rooms, on Thursday evening, the 12th of January. Several new com- positions will be introduced, namely The Dream of the Reveller, The National Melodies of America, @@The Young Soldier,@@ several new Indian and Prairie songs, @@c., and, by desire, The Maniac, and The Ship on Fire. Tickets 2s. 6d. each reserved seats 4s. each reserved family seats, to admit four, 10s. @6d. each, to be had of Messrs. Cramer, Addison, and Beale, 201, Regent‐street and of all the prin- cipal @@music‐sellers. The new Fanda pianoforte, manufactured by Joseph Kirkman and Son@@s, willbe used on this occasion. for  M'LAREN, Manager.  BANK of AUSTRALIA, 38, Old Broad @street, London. December 30, 1842. Notice is here by given, that a SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING of the PROPRIETORS of this Bank will be held here on Monday, the 23d of January, at One o'clock precisely, when the Directors will make a sta@@tement of the Bank's a@ﬀaiss up to the 31st instant, and de- clare a DIVIDEND. By order of the Board, SAMUEL JACKSON, @S  and LIFE ASSURANCE, and LOAN ASSOCIATION.-O@@ﬃces, No. 147, Strand, London and 119, Princes‐street, Edinburgh. Su@bscribed Capital £1,000,000. This Association embraces every description of risk, contingent upon Life and Fire. A liberal system of Loan. An extensive legal connection, a Direction, and Proprietary com- posed of all classes. A union of the English and Scotch systems of Assurance. For tables of rates of assurance, annuities, and endowments, or any other information, apply at the O@@ﬃces or to the Agents of the As- sociation. J. S. PIDGEON, Actuary. S COTTISH UNION INSURANCE COMPANY.NY. Instituted in 1824, and incorporated by Royal Charter.  Balfour, sq. Daniel land Macke zie, Esq., Manager. Moderate Rates both for Fire and Life Assurance, liberal conditions, and unquestionable security, are the distinguishing features of this Co@rporation. Special risks reasonably rated. Tables of rates and ev@ery mation may be had of the Secretary, at the chief London o@@ﬃce, 449, W@est Strand, or at the city branch o@@ﬃce, 78. Ki@ng Wil- liam‐street, Mansion‐house. F. G. SMI@TH, Sec. Scottish Union O@@ﬃce, 449, West Strand, London. NITED KINGDOM LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY. 8, Waterloo‐place, Pall‐mall, London. Established by Act of Parliament in 1834. Division of Pro@ﬁts amon@g the Assured.  of Errol Earl of Courtown Earl Leven and Melville Earl of Norbury Earl of Stair  @Samuel Anderson, Esq. Hamilton Blair Avarne, Esq. Edward Boyd, Esq., Resident E. L@annox Boyd, Esq., Assistant Resident Charles Downes,  established by Act of Parliament, a@ﬀords the most perfect security in an ample paid‐up Capital, and in the great success which has attended it since its commencement in 1834. In 1841, the Company declared an addition to the Shareholders of one‐half of their @Stock, and also added £2 per cent. per annum from the date of the policies to those parties who had insured with Pro@ﬁts. The Premiums nevertheless are on the most moderate scale, and only a moiety need be paid for the ﬁrst @ﬁve years, where the Insurance is for Life. The amount of bonus added to policies since the commencement of the Company in March, 1834, to the 31st December, 1840, is as follows  Esq. F. Charles Maitland, Esq. William Railto@n, Esq. John Ritchie, Esq. F. H. Thomson, Esq.  information will be a@ﬀorded on application to the Resident Directors, Edward Boyd, Esq., and E. Lennox Boyd, Esq., of No. 8, Waterloo‐place, Pall‐mall, London. Frederick Hale Thomson, Esq., surgeon, 48, Berners‐street, attends at the O@@ﬃce daily, about half‐past Two o'clock.  of LONDON hav@e had their attention directed by numerous correspondents to some recent announcements for the formation of Art‐Unions in the Metropolis and various provincial towns, professing to resemble in principle this Society, but which are, in reality, commercial @speculations for individual bene@ﬁt. T@hey therefore deem it their duty, in order to prevent misapprehension-@by which serious mischief might be done to a valuable means of advanc- ing the Arts-to state broadly that this Society was established solely with the disinterested view of disseminating a love of the Fine Arts throughout the British Empire-of legitimately promoting their pro- gress, and elevating the public taste. No gentleman connected with its management has the slightest personal interest in the purchase of Works of Art, or can possibly derive any advantage, pecuniary or otherwise, therefrom, so that there is no subordinate end of an indivi@dual nature to serve. T@he Committee cannot but view with distrust any scheme which, under the guise of such a principle as this, seeks to assume for indi- viduals, actuated by pecuniary motives, an i@@nﬂuence which might place Art and Artists in a state of thraldom likely to be productive of most serious consequences. The Society's prospectus and all other Information may be ob- tained at the o@@ﬃce, 4,Trafalgar‐square, Charing‐cross, and of any of the local secretaries throughout the country. Subscribers of the cur- rent year will receive, in addition to the chance of obtaining a valu- able work of art, a Line Engraving from Sir A. Calcott's Picture, Ra@ﬀaelle and the Fornarina, by Mr. L. Stocks, which is in a state of considerable f@orwardness. An early subscription is invited. P@RESID@ENT-H. R. H. the Duke of CAMBRIDGE.  Most Noble the Marquess of NORTH- AMPTON.  G. Atkinson, Esq., F  F.R.S. John Britton, Esq., F.S.A. B. B. Cabbell, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A. William Col@lard, Esq. Robert Dickson, Esq., M.D., F.L.S. C. P. Dimond, Esq., Treasurer Thomas L. Donaldson, Esq. William Ewart, Esq., M.P. John S. Gaskoin, Esq. George Godwin, Esq., F.R.S,, F.S.A. Thomas Gri@@ﬃth, Esq., M.A. Sir Benjamin Hall, Bart., M.P. E. Hawkins, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A. Henry Haward, Esq. William Leaf, Esq. William C. Macready, Esq. T. P. Matthew, Esq. T. Moore, Esq., F.S.A, George Morant, Esq. George John Morant, Esq, Richard Morris, Esq. John Noble, Esq., F.S.A. Lewis Pocock, Esq., F.S.A. T@he Right Honourable the Lord Prudhoe W@. J. Smith, Esq. Arthur W@@@. Tooke, Esq., M.A. R. Zouch S. Troughton, Esq. The Very Reverend the Dean of Westminster Samuel W@ilson, Esq., Alderman Edward Wyndham,  High Court of Chancery, made in a cause the Marquess of Hertford against Lord Lowther. the ANNUITANTS and LEGATEES of the Most@@ Noble FRANCIS CHARLES, late Marquess of HERTFORD, @@de@ceased who died on or about the 1st day of March, 1842 , are forth@- with to come in and MAKE OUT THEIR CLAIMS to such Annuitieses and L@egacies before Andrew Henry Lynch, Esq., one of the Mas-@ ters of the said Court, at his chambers in Southampton‐buildings, Chancery‐lane, London, or ia default thereof they will be excluded the bene@ﬁt of the said Decree. CAPRON, W@ELD, BRABANT, and CAPRON, Saville‐place, New Burlington‐street. Plain@@tiﬀ's solicitors. P URSUANT to a Decree of the High Court@ of Chancery, made in a cause The Marquess of Hertford against Lord L@owther, the CREDITORS of the Most Noble FRANCIS CHARLES, lat@e Marquess of HERTFORD, deceased who died on or about the 1st day of March, 1842 , are forthwith to come in and PROVE their DEBTS before Andrew Henry Lynch, Esq., one of the Masters of the said Court, at his Chambers, in @Southampton‐buildings, Chancery‐la@ne, London or, in default thereof, they will be excluded the bene@ﬁt of the said Decree. CAPRON, WELD, BRABANT, and CAPRON, Saville‐place, New Burlington‐stre@et, Plainti@ﬀ's Solicitors. P URSUANT to a Decree of the Hi@gh Court of Chancery, made in certain causes, pending in the said Court, entitled respective @v. Colvin, and @@ LIFE ASSURANCE S@@O-@@@@@ CIETY, No. 3, Princes‐street,  Allcard, Esq. Richard Low Beck, Esq. Edmund C. Buxton, Esq. Sir Wm. Clay, Bart., M.P. James Dawson, Esq. Thomas Fowler, Esq. W@illiam Storrs Fry, Esq. Robert  Hawes, jun., Esq., M.P. John Laurence, Esq.@@ William Josh. Lescher, Esq. Joseph Fras. Maubert, Es@q. Joshua Schol@eﬂeld, Esq., M@.P. Henry Sturt, Esq. John  George Vaughan, Esq. The Directors hereby give notice to Members whose Premiums fall @due on the 5th of January next, that the same must be paid within 30 days from that date. The premiums are payable yearly, half‐yearly, or quarterly, on the 5th of January, 5th of April, 5th of July, and 5th of October, either of which several days constitutes the commencement of the year to Members. Persons, therefore, desirous of entering the Society, as Members, on the 5th of January next, should appear or ledge their pr@oposals at the O@@ﬃce on or before that day. So various are the plans now before the public for e@ﬀecting As- surance on Life, it may, at @ﬁrst sight, seem di@@ﬃcult to make choice between them. As, however, all prudent o@@ﬃces make a considerably higher charge in the annual premium than experience has hitherto shown to be necessary, but di@ﬀer in the mode of dis- posing of the surplus, or pro@ﬁt, the following classi@ﬁcation may be made -1. Proprietary O@@ﬃces, where all the surplus from premiums and other pro@ﬁts is divided, exclusively, amongst the Share or Stock holders. 2. O@@ﬃces where the same is divided in various proportions between Share and Stock holders and the Assured@@ of a strictly mutual character, where the whole of the  distributed amongst the Assured only. The Metropolitan, which is of the last class, was established in 1835, and although no paid agents for town or country have at any time been employed, nor any expensive system of advertising resorted  advantages have been so well appreciated by the public, t@hat the annual premiu@ms already exceed £41,000. @@@In consequence of the prosperous state of the Society's a@ﬀairs, the Annual Premiums of Members of Five Years' standing have been reduced Forty‐two and a Half per Cent. A plan of the Society, with tables of rates, may be obtained on ap- plication at the O@@ﬃce@@@@. RICHARD HEATH@FI@ELD, Superintendent. Prince's‐street, Bank, Dec. 14,  Calcutta, in the Province of Bengal, in the Ea@s@t Indies, Esquires, theretofore carrying on business there in copart- nership with Johannes Sarkies, as merchants and agents, entitled to participate in th@e trusts of an Indenture of Assignment, b@earing date the @28th day of March, 1817, and made by the said Carrapiet Sarkies an@d Bectan  for the BENEFIT of their CREDITORS, are, on or before the 1st day of April 1843, to come in and PROVE their DEBTS before William Wing@ﬂeld, Esq., one of the Masters of the said Court, at his chambers in Southampton‐buildings, Chancery- lane, London or, in default thereof, they will be peremptorily excluded the bene@ﬁt of the said Decree@@.  DENBY, and LAVIE, Plainti@ﬀs' Solicitors. 8, Frederick's‐place, Old Jewry.  Note Paper, each at . . Twopence. 1,000 Initial Wafers . . . .  the penny stamp, at per dozen  of every description at wholesale prices. Envelopes,  bordered ditto, of the best quality Stocken's pure Cumberland lead drawing pencils. Best copy books, 3s.  for 8s. 6d. Name‐plate  cards printed, for  of distance, in any part of the coun-  treated with the same liberality as  the usual expence, and all  and completely for £25 a six- room for £79 a ten‐roomed ditto luxuriantly erbly for £335 a single room or  of packing.-PAINTER and CO., No. 28, Leicester‐square, near Charing‐cross. T O LADIES.-ROWLAND'S KALYDOR@@he Special Patronage of her Most Gracious Majesty,  preparation from Oriental Exotics, is  as the only safe and e@@ﬃcient protector and  complexion. Its virtues are commonly  eradicating all pimples, spots, redness, tan,  cutaneous defects, in healing chilblains.  t@he most rough@ uneven skin  and arm a delicacy and  @ﬁnd it allay the irritation of the skin,  of apparent res@pectability. T@@o protec@t the Public fr@om such fraud, the Honourable Com@mis- sioners of Stamps have authorised the Proprietors Signature to @ment Stamp, thus -@@ A.  is a@@ﬃxed to each bottle.-Sold by hem, and by chemists and perfumers. T HE NEW DISCOVERY, by which the  the weak heart strong, and  on nervous vigourE date the First day of October One Thousand Eight Hundred and Forty‐two, BAR- GAINED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, and SET OVER unto James@ Dear, of Aldermanbury, London, warehouseman, and Robert Henry Taylor, of Birmingham, draper, all the ESTATE and EFFECTS therein mentioned of him the@@@@ said Samuel Thomas@@@@ Moore, upon the trusts therein mentioned, for th@e BENEFIT of all and every the CREDITOR end CREDITORS of the said Samuel Thomas Moore that the said indenture was duly executed by the said Samuel Thomas Moore, and J@ames Dear, and Ro@bert Henry Taylor, on the said First day of October. One Thousand Eight Hun- dred and Forty‐two. That the said deed of assignment now lies at the o@@ﬃce of Messrs. Hardwick and Davidson, of No. 14, Cateaton- street, in the City of London, solicitors, for execution by those cre- ditors who have not yet executed the same.-Dated this 29th day of December, 1842. HARDWICK and DAVIDSON. 14, Cateaton‐street, London, Solicitors to the Trustees of the said Thomas Moore. W YLD'S GENERAL ATLAS.-A General 65 Maps. Colombier folio, full coloured £11 11s.,  WORLD, containing 31 Maps. Full coloured, £5 6s.,  Full coloured. Containing 52 Maps, £2 12s. 6d., half‐bound.  with a copious Index. 12s.  12s. These Atlases contain all the recent dis- coveries. @@James Wyld, Geographer to the Queen, Charing‐cross East. M R. HOME and the ROYAL COGNAC BRANDY AFFAIR !-Mr. Home has to represent to the public that be has sustained great injuries fro@m Sir Felix Booth, who, besides withholding the pay@ments and rights due to him for the use of his discoveries at Albany‐street, Regent's Park-premises taken expressly to carry on Mr. Home's processes for making Brandy-has put forward a person he has raised from dependence, of the name of Grimble, to assume the merits of Mr. Home's pro- ductions, aiding him by circulars in representing to the world that he has made continuous improvements in this Brandy since its @ﬁrst introduction. Whereas the truth really is, that the Brandy now selling at Albany‐street is no other than an imitation of the article supplied by Mr. Home, heretofore, from these premises, ﬂavoured by the same ingredients, made up in the same proportions, and prepared precisely upon the same principles. And if any improvement has taken place in the article in the hands of these persons, it has arisen solely in consequence of the letters addressed to Sir Felix Booth  Managing Partner by Mr. Home at di@ﬀerent times since their seizing possession of these works, upon the merits of Mr. Home's production, to enable the@m to correct the faults they had fallen into in the preparation of that commodity. 4, Yo Dec. 12, 1842. S MOKY CHIMNEYS CURED at ONCE, in accordance with the new Chimney Act.-The advertisers have discovered the cause of weak draughts, downward currents, c , and in a few hours can perfect the draughts of the most faulty chimneys. The cure is e@ﬀected by a simple and permanent process, at a stated moderate charge when perfect.-References in all parts of London. The printed particulars, terms, c., remitted post free.-W. H.  CO., patentees, 41, INATION of BLOOD to the HEAD, APOPLEXY. @@c., e@ﬀectually prevented by the occasional use of FRAMPTON'S PILL of HEALTH, which, by strengthening the action of the stomach, and @promoting a healthy and regular digestion of the food, prevents a recurrence of those symptoms of   disorder, giddin of the brain, singing noise in the ears, head‐ache, @@c. They @are an excellent aperient, without griping or prostration of strength, create appetite, relieve languor, and invigorate the spirits, while to the free liver or sedentary they o@ﬀer advantages that will not fall to be appreciated.-@@So DRUGGISTS.-To be@@ SOLD the LEASE, Goodwill, Stock, and Fixtures of an old-established CHEMIST'S SHOP, situate in one of the leading thorough- fares near t@he city, and in the miidst of a highly respectable and po- pulous neighbourhood. The shop from its excellent situation pre- sents a most desirable opportunity for any young @@man wishin@g to em- bark in the business possession may be had immediately.-For  apply to Messrs. Hearon, Bright, and Co., 93, Bishopsgate-  Meyrick, solicitor, 4, Furnival's‐inn.  Chinese, surpassing in extent and grandeur any similar display in the known world, en- tirely @ﬁlling the spacious saloon, 225 feet in length, and embracing upwards of 50 @ﬁgures as large as life, all fac similes, in their native costumes, from the highest mandarin to the blind mendicant also many thousand specimens, illustrating the appearance, manners, and customs of more than three hundred millions Chinese, is NOW OPEN, from 10 till @10.-Admittance. 2s. 6d. children under twelve, 1s. T HE SMALLEST and MOST PERFECT HORSE NOW EXHIBITING at the COSMORAMA ROOMS, 209, Regent‐street. This extraordinary little wonder of nature sur- passes any animal of the kind ever yet seen, is very docile, and mea- sures only 30 inches high. This beautiful miniature horse is to be SOLD by Private Contract on moderate terms.-For particulars ap- ply at the o@ﬃce of the Cosmorama. Admission, 1s. Children, half price. M ANUFACTURERS' RELIEF COMMIT-@@@@ TEE.-The Committee appointed to manage the Subscriptions and Collections making  of the Distressed Manufac- turers respectfully announce that they continue to receive and apply, according to their best ability, the Contributions of the Benevolent. Individual Subscriptions already advertised to the amount of £24,540 5 4 Received s@ince the last advertisement  The Collections made at the Churches. Chapels, and Parishes, were paid, by the direction of the Queen's Letter, into the Bank of England, and have been duly acknowledged by the Cashiers as they were from time to time received from the resident or o@@ﬃciating Minister. The Manufacture@rs' Relief Committee will, at the conclusion of their labours, lay before the Public their Re@port and Balance Sheet. Committee Room, 74, King William‐street, City where, and by Messrs. Smith, Payne, and Smiths, bankers, Subscriptions are re- ceived. W. H. HYETT, Sec. @Dec. 31, 1842. T HE PIRIE TESTIMONIAL.-The Committee have determined to CLOSE the SUBSCRIPTIONS for the Testimonial to Sir John and Lady Pirie on Tuesday, the 10th day of January, after which a List o@f the Subscribers will be published, and a General Meeting of them will be held to resolve upon the Testimo- nial to be presented. Subscriptions are continued to be received by the Treasurers, William Cotton, George Grote, John Masterman, and Joseph Somes, Esqrs. also by the Members of the Committee and by the Bankers, Messrs. Masterman and Co. Messrs. Sir Richard Carr Glyn a@nd Co. and Messrs. Prescott, Grote, and Co. and by Mr. Anderton, 20, New Bridge‐street and Mr. Edward Harrison, 82, Cornhill, to who@m all communications are requested to be addressed. JAMES AND@ERTON.RTON. EDWARD HARRISON,  a most delightful part of one of the Midland Counties. It is established in a village contain- ing upwards of 1,000 persons, and extends over a well and respectably populated neighbourhood. Most satisfactory reasons will be given for the party's retiring. Price moderate.-Apply to Mr. G. W. Hebb, solicitor, Lincoln. U MB@RELLA TRADE, c., to be SOLD.-The @@LEASE, with a valuable business established on the pre- mises about twenty-@ﬁve years, of UMBRELLA MAKER, FISHING TACKLE, and ARCHERY, c., in one of the best situations at the west‐end of London, to be DISPOSED OF by Private Contract. There are about eight hundred regular customers, amongst whom are many of the @ﬁrst families in the kingdom.@-For terms apply to Mr. Joaeph Foot, of Spital‐square, silk manufacturer or Mr. Star- ling, 40, Leicester‐square, if by letter, prepaid. D  No. 2.-The Lords Commissioners of her Majesty's Treasury having declared the letting of the DUBLIN DOCK WAREHOUSES which took place on the 1st December, 1842, to be void, the PRE- MISES will be again o@ﬀered to be LET by AUCTION, in the Long Room of the Custom‐house, Dublin, on Wednesday, January 25, at Two in the Afternoon, subject to the conditions and stipulations contained in the particulars issued on the former occasion, except as regards t@he term of the Lease, which will commence on the 8th February next, and end on the 29th September, 1862, determinable at the option of either party on the 29th September, 1848, or on the 29th September, 1855, on giving the one to the other six months notice in writing.-Copies of the said particulars may be seen on application to the respective Collectors of the Customs at Dublin, Liverpool, Bristol, Hull, Newcastle, Plymouth, Belfast, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Londonderry, Galway, Sligo, Leith, Glasgow, and Greenock, and at the O@@ﬃces of the Solicitor for the Customs in Dublin and London. F ANCY SPANIELS.-BARGAIN.-A Black a@@@@nd Tan, and a Black and White and Tan, very small, and had t@he distemper also an Italian Greyhou@nd, to be SOLD cheap.-@ at 7, Arlington‐Street, Myddelton‐square, Clerkenwell, near the Angel, Islington. No dealers to apply. @@G OLD CLOCK, value 120 Guineas, to be DISPOSED OF by SUBSCRIPTION. Two Guineas each.-To @be se@en at Mr. Shotter's, the BalticTavern, Hercules‐passage. Thread- needle‐street. @W ATCHES by WEBSTER and SON, Chrono-@@ meter Makers to the Lords of the Admiralty, established  Hunting or Riding, on an improved principle, for  prices, consistent with maintaining that character for su- periority of workmanship which has distinguished their establish- ment during that period. The compensated duplex Watch, upon the principle of their Chronometers, to which Government awarded the prizes three successive years, combines perfect accuracy with ele- gance, and is not surpassed by the pocket Chronometer. W. and Son have devoted great attention to the patent lever Watch, and @consi@derably reduced the price, together with the small @horizontal for ladies. They can o@ﬀer a large selection of Second‐hand Watches, at little above half the original cost. The utmost value allowed for old Watches in exchange. The most experie@nced workmen in the repairing department are employed on the premises for foreign and English manufacture.-Webster and Son, 3, Birchin‐lane,  NEW PATENT WATCH re-@ peats correctly, and can be wound up without a key. The Queen's Letters Patent have been obtained for this useful and very novel invention, which winds up by pendant, and is an excellent re- peater, not being liable to get out of repair. It will also give the time of any event within thirty hours after its occurrence. It has Massey's patent lever escapement, which, as an article of commerce, is of national importance, and has been proved to b@@e the best con- stru@cted pocket watch that can possibly be made. In silver cases, eight guineas gold, eighteen guineas.-4, Birchin‐lane, and 89, Strand. P LATE suited for PRESENTATION.-Com- mittees or private individuals requiring splendid or simple articles of PLATE for presentation, may, by addressing a paid letter, have drawings sent for their approval. A number of large articles, as Epergnes, Cups, Waiters, @c@., are always in stock, second‐hand. A list of them, with price, can be furnished.-T. COX SAVORY, silversmith, c., 47, Cornhill seven doors from Gracechurch‐street , London. D EANEAN PLATE.-The DEANEAN PLATE has all the whiteness, and much more than the du- rability of silver. The spoons and forks manufactured of this beauti- ful metal, are of precisely the same shape and @ﬁnish as the best Lon- don @@made silver plate. @@The tea and co@ﬀee sets, table and chamber candlesticks, waiters, cake baskets, bottle stands, snu@ﬀers, and trays are all of the newest fashion, and highest @ﬁnish.-Deane's, opening to the Monument, 46, King William‐street, London‐bridge. P LATE.-A. B. SAVORY and SONS, Manufac- turing Silversmiths, 14, Cornhill, London, opposite the Bank of England.-The best wrought SILVER SPOONS and FORK@@S Fiddle Pattern, 7s. 2d. per ounce the King's Pattern, 7s. 4d. per ounce. The following are the weights recommended, but the arti- cles may be had lighter or heavier, at the same price per ounce -FIDDLE PATTERN.  the scienti@ﬁc improvement@ in the manufac- ture of Plate Glass a considerable reduction has been e@ﬀected in its cost, and consequently THOMAS FOX is enabled to @oﬀer his Chim- ney, Pier, and Console Glasses at very much lower prices than be- fore. His stock comprises the simplest as well as the richest and most elaborate Gothic, Grecian, Elizabethan, and French styles of framing the quality is of the very best description, and he pledges himself to exchange any article should a reasonable objection arise. Many second‐hand glasses on hand at a great reduction from the new tari@ﬀ prices.-Thomas Fox, 93, Bishopsgate‐street‐within. N EW YEAR'S GIFTS.-Ladies and Gentle- men's Rosewood and Mahogany DRESSING CASES £1 1 0  A price current, stamped as a newspaper, illustrated by drawings, and containing every information relative to the purchase of silver or She@@ﬃeld plate, may be had on application, or will be sent into the country, free of postage, in answer to a paid letter. V ELVET CARDINAL CLOAKS, trimmed with@@ fur, are an elegant toilet and much in vogue. The liberal patronage Messrs. J. and J. HOLMES and LE BATARD have re- ceived for this beautiful costume, induces them to hope they have produced these unique articles with that good taste ch has ob- tained for their house a notoriety it is their constant endeavour to merit and to those desirous of a souvenir for this season of the year, they are particularly worthy of notice.-Foreign and British Shawl Emporium, 171, 173, and 175, Regent‐street.  invites the Public to an inspection of his superior TWELFTH CAKES, feeling con@ﬁdent the superior quality, large assortment, and low prices will give unusual satisfaction rich quality, handsomely or- na@mented, 2s. to 2s. 6d. per lb. @ﬁne quality , 1s. 6d. per lb. su- peri@@or quality cakes for children, 1s. per lb. iced and ornamented, 1s. 3d. A distribution of Twelfth Cakes at 2 guineas, 1 guinea, and ½ guinea e@ach, to be drawn on Twelfth‐day shares, 2s. 6d. each. -J. Turner, 67, Bishopsgate@‐within, and 4, Queen's‐row, Dalston. -A show room of the prize cakes open to inspection. T EAS in six pound bags at 3s.4d. and 3s. 10d. per@@ pound, black or green and C@oﬀee at 1s. and 1s, 4d.-The East India Tea Company have eﬀected a further reduction in prices of from 2d. to 6d. per pound and in bearing down the market for the bene@ﬁt of their numerous agents, friends, and connections, read the monopolisers of tea this useful lesson-that they had better have been contented with moderate gains.-No. 9, Great St. Helen's, Bishops- gate‐street. D AVIES'S CANDLES, 6d. per lb. Wax Can-@@ dles, 1s. 2d. @ﬁne Wax, 1s. 5d. Cocoa Nut, 10d. extra @ﬁne Wax Wick Moulds, 7@½d. transparent Wax, 2s. 2d. genuine Sperm, 2s. 2d. genuine Wax, 2s. 3d. Yellow Soap, 46s., 54s., and 60s. per 112@lbs. Mottled, 62s. and 66s, Windsor, 1s. 4d. per packet Palm, 1s. 4d. Old Brown Windsor, 1s. 9d. Rose, 2s. Camphor, 2s. Almond, 2s. 6d. super@ﬁne Sealing Wax, 4s. 5d. per lb. genuine Sperm Oil, 7s. 6d. per gallon Solar Oil, 4s. For cash, at DAVIES'S old‐established warehouse, 63, @St. Martin's‐lane, opposite New Slaughter's  RESPIRATOR.-A GENIAL CLIMATE@@ in ENGLAND.-@HENRY WILSON requests Asthmatic, e, and all persons delicate in the chest, to examine the nu-merous testimonials in his possession of persons able to enjoy health, and follow their avocations or pleasures in England, under the use of t@he Respirator, who would otherwise be compelled to leave the country, or to hasten their decay by constant con@ﬁnement within doors. Hundreds have become so well under  to lay it aside even in the winter, and it is such evidence which causes the use of it to make progress against a prevailing and interested opposition in quarters where it would be little suspected.-Respirator Depot, 148, Regent‐street, London. B EST TEETH.-Mr. WITT,  near Chancery‐lane , supplies the BEST ARTIFAL TEETH of every description they are @ﬁxed without springs, wires, or ligatures, and without extracting roots or causing the least pain, and restore articulation and mastication. This newly- invented teeth never change colour or decay, and will be found very superior to any ever before used they so perfectly resemble nature as not to be distinguishable by the closet observer, and will support and preserve teeth that are loose. Teeth, which from accident or disease@@@ the gums, have fallen out, are @ﬁxed and again ren@dered useful. Decayed teeth likewise made serviceable to mastication.-Mr. Witt has reduced his charges to the lowest scale, and are as mo- derate as can possibly be, consistent with the best workmanship,  home from Ten OR STOPPING DECAYED TEETH.-Price 4s. 6d.-Patronised by her Majesty, his Royal  the tooth for life, rendering extraction un- necessary. It arrests all further progress of decay, and renders them again useful in mastication. All persons can use Mr. Thomas's Suc- cedaneum themselves with ease, without the aid of a dentist as full directions@ are enclosed.-Prepared@ and sol@d by Mr. Thomas, surgeon- dentist, 68, Berners‐street, Oxford‐street@@ sold, by his appointment, by all respectable medicine venders@@ @AUTION to LADIES.-Much pernicious trash@@ is now o@ﬀered for sale as KALYDOR freque@ntly under the implied sanction of Royalty by perfumers of apparent respecta-   copy the   have authorised the Proprietors@ Signature to be engraven on  Go  and @TH@YMIAN LEAVES.-VINE@@R'S gran@t VERBENA LEAVES for imparting to the atmo@sphere of apartments the delicious perfume of that favourite exotic the Ver- bena Plant, and for correcting the impurity occasioned by respira tion,  and noxious vapours from candles and other burning substances, thereby converting a  into a sa-  Wi@th  for use, price 1s. per packet, at Messrs. Sanger's. 150@t Stocken, Quadrant@ Prout, T@en, Cornhill and at the principal houses.-Wholesale at Viner's@ HE PREMIER COMPOSITION of  WILLIAMS'S PATENT FRENCH POLISH REVIVER.-It will be found a great saving of time la@b  expe@nse, by merely rubbing a few drops occasionally on the furniture‐like oil. It does not only preserve the polish, but adds to its splendour, and causes no disagreeable smell, which is the case with all other  is @used in the royal palaces, and is appreciated by thousands. One trial will be a suﬃcient guarantee for its utility.-SoId in bottles, 1s. 3d. Wholesale, by Hannay and Co.,  Barclay and  Batty and  and Italian  are also selling from 2s. @11d. to 3s. 6d. also good watered mo- reens as low as @10½d. and chintz furnitures,  Their stock of Brussels carpets consists of a  good quality, commencing as low as 2s. 6d. per yard, those of new and elegant designs from 3s. to 3s. 11d., and those of very mag-  as low as 2s. @6d. per yard, those  from 3s. to 3s. 11d., and those of very mag- ni@ﬁcent patterns and qualities, such as are usually charged 5s. 6d., from 4s. 2d. to 4s. 6d. T. P. and Co. also invite attention to their large assortment of gilt window cornices, brass rods, deep ornamental drapery fringes, gimps, laces, and every other description of modern elegance suited for either drawing or dining room curtains.-Thomas Paul and Co., cabinet‐makers, upholsterers, and carpet‐manufac- turers, opposite the Mansion House, City of London. C @LOAKS and CARDINALS. -Cardinal cloak@@s, 17s. 6d. rich satin cardinals, 42s. Genoa silk velvet cardinals, 52s. 6d. and 63s. each promenade cloaks, 17s. 6d. to 25s. each, worth 30s. to 40s. each Genoa silk velvet carriage cloaks lined throughout and trimmed with fur, 3½ guineas each, worth eight guineas each rich silk and satinette carriage cloaks lined throughout and trimmed with fur, two guineas each a choice of upwards of a thousand new cl@@o velvet shawls, and scarfs. SABLE FURS.-Fur Cloaks, richest sable tail boas at half price capes and mu@ﬀs Russian sable boas, 30s. @ﬂat  capes, two guineas Canada sables Vic- torine and riding boas, 5s. to 10s. 6d. Russian fox, 7s. to 15s. Russian ermine, 5s. to 21s. long Canada sable boas, 9s. 6d. to 15s. Missouri sable, 12s. 6d. to 17s. @6d. each carriage mu@ﬀs, rugs, fur gloves, cu@@ﬀs carriage cloaks of silk velvet, lined and  3½ guineas.-G. Merington's, 154, New  AUNDERS'S INDIA PALE ALE.-CHAM-CLAYTON, Wine Merchants, 19 and 27, King- street, Cheapside, have the pleasure of informing their friends and the public, that they have undertaken the agency for the above ad- mired and increasingly popular beverage and are now enabled to o@ﬀer it in cask an@d bottle, in @ﬁne and sparkling condition. Being entirely free from acidity, and possessing a pure and unadulterated bitter, it is professionally recommended as a salutary and agreeable tonic. Country favours are requested to contain a reference in London. S  GOLDEN ALES.-WILLIAM GOW and CO., the ap- pointed agents for bottling these celebrated ALES, now beg to o@ﬀer them ripe in bottle quarts and pints , as well as in casks of various sizes, in high condition. The fermentation of these liquors being conducted upon a principle which renders them entirely free from acidity, has br@@ought them under the notice of several of the most eminent physicians in London, to whom W. Gow and Co. have the honour of referring. Invalids generally will @ﬁnd these ales an agree- able and invigorating beverage.-22, Hungerford Wharf, Strand. R OYAL COGNAC BRANDY.-Mr. GRIM- BLE, who has been the managing partner in this concern, begs to acquaint the Public that, in consequence of the great im- provements he has, by his unwearied exertions, been enabled to make in the quality of the article, it will in future be known in commerce at GRIMBLE'S ROYAL COGNAC BRANDY, -The strong recommendation it has received from medical professors and surgical operators, and its use in many of the metropolitan hospitals, are a guarantee to the public for its purity and wholesome qualities whilst the patronage bestowed upon it by noblemen and gentlemen of high standing in society, and good taste and judgment, added to its extensive consumption in the mercantile world, are a su@@ﬃcient evidence of its agreeable @ﬂavour and general excellence indeed. Mr. Grimble is borne out by the full concurrence of his cus- tomers in stating that the article has continually improved from its @ﬁrst introduction. As a pure Brandy, and as conducive to health, it challenges competition with the most expensive productions of the Continent, and it requires an experienced judge to distinguish it in @ﬂavour from the veritable Cognac. The price is, as heretofore, 18s. per gallon, in quantities of not less than two gallons, or 3@6s. per dozen being two full imperial gallons , with the usual charge for bottles.-Distillery, Albany‐street, Regent's Park. W M. YOUNG FELL and CO. feel much @ﬂat- tered that their names, in connection with their brandy distillery in the Waterloo‐read, Lambeth, were to brilliantly dis- played in Punch's Pantomime, at Covent‐garden Theatre. There  spirited, pantomimic performance without Punch, but not good punch without W. Y. Fell and Co.'s superior BRANDY, of which two gallons can be purchased for 32s. and Gin- ger Brandy at 30s, at 26, Friday‐street, and at the distillery. I NDIA PALE ALE.-@HARPER and Co., wine- merchants, the appointed agents to Bass and Co., Burton upon- Trent, bg to inform their friends that t@heir Stock of BASS'S INDIA ALE is now in good condition, and can be supplied in any quantity, in casks as well as quart and pint bottles. Also Burton Ale, Stout, and @Po o bottle.-2. Cowper's‐court, Cornhill. A LE of very superior quality, brewed entirely from the very best malt and hops, an@d in such proportions as persons of nice palates will be sure to appreciate, sold in  nine gallons each, at 1s. per gallon. Sent to any part of town car- riage free. Orders by post punctually attended to.-Address to the John Bull Brewery o@@ﬃce. No. 20, Philpot‐lane, City. @B ASS'S PALE ALE, as prepared for India.-@@F@@IELD, WARDELL, and CO., after devoting great attention to bottli@@ng this much admired A@LE, can now o@ﬀer it to their friends and the public, in the greatest state of perfection. Scotch and Bur- ton Ales, London and Guineas's Dublin  with th@eir Foreign Wines and  Burton Ale, Stout, and Porter in   1s gallons.-22, Hen-@  Saturday next, the 7th of January being the @ﬁrst Saturday in the year this paper the  journal in Great Britain will RESUME ITS ORIGINAL NAME of THE TABLET, and a@ of Peter   Laman Blanchard, Esq. MY GRANDFATHER'S DREAM. A Tale founded on fact. BY JAMES SHERIDAN KNOWLES, ESQ.@@@@ Extracts from My Indian Diary.  Mrs. Trollope. Illustrated  EL@LISTONIANA@ Or, Original Anecdotes of the late R. W. Elliston, Esq. By W. T. Moncrie@@ﬀ, Esq. No. 1. Conjuror and No Conjuror-2. The Genius of the Lamp-3. Measure for Measure-4. The Sanguinary Public-5.  able, conveni@ently, to procure it through a local newsvender, may be supplied direct from the o@@ﬃce, 6, Catherine‐street, Strand, by sending a Post‐o@@ﬃce order, with the subscriber's name and ad- dress. Terms of @subscri@ption payable in advance yearly, £1 6s. half‐yearly, 13s. quarterly, @6s. @6d. Publishing o@@ﬃce, @6, Catherine- street, Strand, London, where advertisements are received, and whither all communications must be addressed pre‐paid .-Orders re- ceived by all newsmen and booksellers.  favourable opportunity for  who may d@esire to take in THE  to give their orders without delay to their to  pointed to India, may, on application to Messrs. GRINDLAY, CHRISTIAN, and MATTHEWS, obtain ESTIMATES showing at one view the total expense of Equi@pment and Passage, both by sea and overland. Plans and particulars of all ships under despatch may also be had at either of their o@@ﬃces, 16, Cornhill, or 8, St. Martin's- place, Charing‐cross. B Y her MAJESTY'S ROYAL LETTERS PA- TENT for the MORPHOTYPE or MOULD of FORM for MEASURING the HUMAN FIGURE.-JOHN LESLIE, by special @Appointment, TAILOR to her MAJESTY and the ROYAL FAMILY, 60, Conduit‐street, London. JOHN LESLIE has the honour to announce to the Nobility, Gentry, and the Public that he has received her Majesty's Royal Letters Patent for England, Scotland, and Ireland, for Machinery, which, without any personal inconvenience, in a few seconds takes and retains the exact model of every variety of the human @ﬁgure. These Machines, after mu@ch labour an@d expense, he has now brought to great per- fection-thus superseding the old and uncertain methods of mea- suring for clothing. The practical experience of this Machinery has unfolded such im- mense advantages in precision and economy, that it has required much deliberation as to the plan to be adopted to give full e@ﬀect to it and the result is, that it will be impossible to work these Patents most advantageously to the public and himself under the combined system of credit and ready‐money transactions. It is, therefore, most respectfully announced, that his future busi- ness will be conducted entirely upon immediate cash payments, with- out any discounts, abatements, or deductions whatever. For the immense outlay of money in the perfection of these Patents he seeks a remuneration-not in monopoly charges, which patent rights may give but from the facilities they a@ﬀord him, and from an improved mode of transacting business on the soundest com- mercial principles The reputation of the house of business, for nearly half a century, it is hoped will be a suﬃci@ent guarantee to those who may honour him with their commands, that they will obtain the very choicest goods in Woollens, Silks. Velvets, Embroideries, @@c. @@c., in the ma- nufacture of personal and household clothing, as well as in every de- scription of Court costume, Military, Naval, and Diplomatic. Uni- forms, executed in such a manner as the Patentee trusts will give the highest satisfaction, and receive the approbation of the public. London, 60. Conduit‐street, January, 1843. -1. Schiller, Life and Lyrical Com- positions. 2. Hymns and La@ys of Ancient Germany. 3. Validity of Popular Judgment. 4. Life and Times of Savonarola. 5. French Academy of Sciences. 6. Modern Turkish Travellers. 7. Chinese Characteristics. 8. Tari@ﬀ-Commercial Policy, Home and Abroad. 9. Spain as it is. 10. Treaty with China. 11. Origin of the Red Indians. 12. Poets and Poetry of America. 13. Life of Jean Paul Richter. Critical Sketches. Reviews, Correspondence and Latest Intelligence, Foreign and Colonial, Books recently published on the Continent, @@c. London Whittaker and Co., Ave Maria‐lane and may be had by order, of all booksellers. T@@ HE FOREIGN QUARTERLY REVIEW, No. LX., price 6s. CONTENT@S 1. Ho@ﬀmeister on Schiller 2. Gutzkow's Letters from Paris 3. Socrates and the Sophists of Athens 4. Balzac's ' Provincial Bachelor' 5. The Countess Hahn Hahn's Travels 7. George Sand's ' Consuelo' 8. The King of Saxony's Travels in Montenegro 9. Alfred de Musset's ' White Thrush' 10. Klopstock 11. The Newspaper Press of France Literature-Poland. Short Reviews of New Works. Foreign Correspondence, Intelligence,  Intelligence, c. Chapman and Hall, 186, Strand and Longman, Brown, and Co., Paternoster‐row.@@ MUSICAL NOTICE.-Now ready, T HE PIANISTA for JANUARY, No. 25.-Con- tents The Christmas Quadrilles, containing Jack Frost, the Icicle, Snow‐drop, Holly, and Mistletoe‐bough. Also, the Twelfth night Waltzes, with Characters, Punch's Galop, and Judy's graceful Mazurkas. Barnett's New Song for Winter, Twelve Scotch Reels and Strathspeys, and the Merry Bells Ringing the Chinese Victory. The whole for 2s. Post free, 2s. @6d., by addressing the Editor, 23, Pater- noster‐row. Notice.-The Proprietor of the@@@@ Pianista presents gratis to pur- chasers of Nos. 24 and 25, all the Music in @@@King Arthur. No. 25 begins a new volume, and presents a good opportunity for new subscribers. Sherwoods Gange, 19, Poultry and Te@@mpleman, 248, Regent‐street. T HE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for JA- NUARY 1843, the First Number of a New Volume, contains the @ﬁrst of a series or articles on the Foundation of Religious Houses in@@  new and improved principle, recommended and personally used by the most eminent physicians and army surgeons, admirably adapted for strengthening the loins  what it is, and what it ought to be-Errors in Lord Brougham's @@@Political Philosophy -The History of Ferdinando Paleolgus of Barbadoes, the last of the  WASSAIL BOWL. By ALBERT SMITH, Esq. Richard Bentley, New Burlington‐street. To be had at all the  admirable narrative.@  Richard Bentley, New Burlington‐street, Publisher in ordinary to  @. MR. WORLEY'S NEW TRAGEDY. Now ready, in 8v HENRY T. WORLEY, Esq. Videtis  scelere  pènitus extincta@m indolem pudoris et s. -Osorius de  Otley,  Price One Shilling, the First Number of T HE LIFE and ADVENTURES of MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT his  FRIE  Comprising all his Wills and his Ways with an Historical Record of What  by Boz. With Illustrations by P@hiz. London Chapman and Hall, 18@6, @Strand. SALES BY AUCTION. Dover‐street, Piecadilly. L AHEE and SON respectfully announce that the LEASZ and FURNITURE of No. 10, Dover‐ s sale on the 10th of January, are SOLD by Private Contract. -Auction O@@ﬃce, 65, New Bond‐street, December 31,   Berks.-Very e@ligible   of various enclosures of superior Meadow and Arable Land, and other Estates,  SON will SUBMIT to SALE by AUCTION,at the Castle Inn, Wind- sor, on Saturday, January 14, at One, under the will of the late George Proctor, Esq., t@he TWO very valuable FREEHOLD FARMS, nearly surrounding Wink@ﬁeld Church, between Windsor, Maidenhead, and Bracknell, known as Brown's and Goodwin's Farms, which will be subdivided into numerous lots also a very extensive allotment of heath land, lying between King's Beech and Bagshot Park, partly adjoining the Royal preserves. The whole property comprising about 400 acres, and o@ﬀering most eligible occupations and safe investments for capital of various amounts, particularly to adjoining landowners, with many desirable spots for building.-Particulars may be had at the neighbouring inns of Edward Futvoye, Esq., solicitor, Bedford‐row and of Messrs. Daniel Smith and Son, land agents, in Windsor, and Waterloo‐place, Pall‐mall. Leasehold Ground‐rents and Improved Rents, in Bentinck‐street, Cavendish‐square, and Hereford‐street, Park‐lane. @M @ESSRS. DANIEL SMITH and SON will @@@@SELL by AUCTION, at the Auction Mart, on Wednesday, Jan. 18, at Twelve, by order of the executrix of a lady dec@eased, sundry GROUND RENTS, arising out of houses and premises in Bentinck- street, Cavendish‐square, and Marylebone‐lane, under the Duke of Portland also certain Shares in the Improved Rents of two hand- some Houses in Hereford‐street, Hyde‐park.-Full particulars may be had at the Auction Mart at the Coachmakers' Arms one of the houses of Messrs. Malton and Trollope, solicitors Carey‐street, Lincoln's‐inn and at Messrs. Smith's o@@ﬃces, in Waterloo‐place,  preventing rupture, and checking increase of corpulency to those inclined to that habit, but alike comfortable and bene@ﬁcial to thin as well as stout  with a Plate‐Co@@ﬃn of Sutton, the Feunder of the Charter‐house-Recent Discoveries In Subterranean London-Review of Hewitt's Germany-Poems by the late Marquess Wellesley, @c. With Li- terary and Scienti@ﬁc Intelligence‐Reports of Antiquarian and Ar- chitectural Societies-Historical Chronicle-Obituary, with Memoirs of Sir M. O'Loghlen, Sir John Cross, General Sir G.T. Walker, Rev. Dr. Heath, Lady Callcott, Mr. William Hone, Mr. John Varley, @@c. Price 2s. @6d. W. Pickering, Piccadilly.  ing the loins and abdomen, in riding or other exercise, preventing rupture, checking increase of corpulency. and giving remarkable comfort in general wear, both to thin as well as stout persons. Made by the inventor, S K. SALAMAN, tailor and breeches‐maker, 19. Charing‐cross, two doors from Craig's‐court. Riding trousers cut upon an improved plan, which renders them extremely pleasant with or without braces. The new light waterproof cape and coat, adapted to all climates, seasons, and constitutions. B  Series.-No. I. contains Opening Address to the Reader -Life of St. Elizabeth of Hungary, by Ambrose Lisle Philli@ps, Esq. -The Nave of the Church, Chapter I.-The Third of May, a Legend of the East and of the West, in two parts‐Ane Oratioune made be Master Quintin Kennedy, Commendator of Crorsraguel-Letter fro@m the Prince Bishop or Trent on the Saintly Maria Do@menica Lazari, of Capriani-Homilies of St. Bede the Venerable and St. Leo Pope,  Poenitentiary,  C. Dolman, New Bond‐street, and T. Jones. Paternoster‐row. Just published, price 2s., Part I., 112pp. 8vo. of the C HYMICAL GAZETTE or, Journal of Prac@@-@ tical Chymistry, conducted by WILLIAM FRANCIS and HENRY CROFT, late Students in the Universities of Berlin and Giessen, containing upwards of one hundred articles of consierable practical importance to the manufacturer, chemist, and druggist. Also, No. 5, published on the 31st December, price 6d. stamped edition 7d. , containing, among other articles of interest, the following -On the Manufacture of Oxalic Acid, with tests for impurities‐On Syrup and Pills of the Iodide of Iron-Action Water on Haloid Salts-Urine in Morbus Brightii-Use of Sulphurous Acid in Analysis, @@c. @@c. R. and J. E. Taylor, Red Lion‐court, Fleet‐street and all book- sellers. B  @ﬁrst and se- cond @ﬂoors are @ﬁtted up as Show rooms. BELLAMY SAVORY, Stationer and Dressing-case-maker.-British Paper Warehouse, 46, Cornhill, London. D  CAEDIES, @@c.-STOCKEN, 53, Quadrant.-Portable dressing cases in russia or morocc, containing razor strop, comb, and shaving brush, for 10s. 6d. rosewood or mahogany dressing cases, from 18s. 6d. to 170 guineas ladies' dressing cases with silver @ﬁttings, from seven guineas writing and dressing cases repaired and re@ﬁtted work boxes, mahogany and rosewood writing desks of every description travelling writing cases, from 12s. @6d. best Lond@on razors, penknives and sc@issors, despatch boxes, letter and key boxes, papier maché blotting books and envelope cases, and card boxe.-STOCKEN, No. 53, Quadrant, Regent‐street, next door to Swan and Edgar's.-Ob- serve the name.  MACHINIST.-Now ready, TWO NEW PARTS, price 14s. each, containing folio plates and quarto letter press de- scriptions of the Thames Tunnel and Shield by Sir Izambard Mark Brunel-Land and Marine Steam Engines-Cranes and Dredging Ma- chinery by the Messrs. Rennie, c. For the Use of Students and Professors in Civil Engineering@@@@@@. Ackerman and Co., Strand Weale, High Holborn Kirton, No. 1, Great Portland‐street, Oxford‐street and all booksellers. This day is published, price 10s. 6d., P ROFESSIONAL EXCURSIONS. By an AUCTIONEER. London Alfred Greenlan@d, 4, Old Broad‐street,  and BEDDING, CARRIAGE FREE, and ﬁxed, re@gardless of distance, in any part of the coun- try. Town resident@ treated with the same liberality as hereto- fore. You will save, at least, one‐third the usual expence, and all the usual trouble, by selecting from our immense stock. By our book of estimates, which contains the price of each item, shows the cost of each room, and may be had gratis, postage free, you will @ﬁnd that we furnish a four‐roomed house well and completely for £25 a six‐roomed ditto elegantly for £79 a ten‐roomed ditto luxuriously for £178 and a twelve‐roomed ditto superbly for £335 a single room or a single article equally mo- derate the whole warranted. We request the special attention of country residents to the important fact announced at the commence- ment of this advertisement. Shippers also, at this factory, save the usually great expense of packing.-PAINTER and CO., 28, Leicester- square, near Charing‐cross. EST BRUSSELS CARPETS at 3s. 6d. per@@ yard.-A rare opportunity just now o@ﬀers to purchasers of CARPETS. Selection from a stock of several hundred pieces of the newest style, chie@ﬂy Comber patterns and three‐thread grounds, in fact, the heaviest goods made expressly for an established trade, and have never been sold under 5s. per yard, being the stock of Mr. W. Hopper, of Great Queen‐street, Lincoln's inn, purchased of his as- signees by HARVEY and Co., and now on sale at their General Fur- nishing Warehouses, Lambeth House, Nos. 41, 42@, 43, 44, Westmin- ster‐bridge‐road, near the Marsh‐gate.-N.B. Be particular in observ- ing the name, Harvey and Co., Lambeth House. D RAWING and DINING ROOM CURTAINS and Carpets.-THOMAS PAUL and CO. invite the attention of the Nobility and Gentry to this very important branch of their establishment, which o@ﬀers advantages not to be met with at any other house in London. They are now selling rich royal damasks, in beautiful variety, at 1s. @6d. per yard, and those of two colours, evi- dencing a most silk‐like appearance, some as low as 1s. 4d. per yard the richest silk and satin striped tabbarets , worth 4s. 6d. per yard, they are also selling from 2s. 11d. to  as low as  6½d. Their stock of Brussels carpets consists of a e. By W. LEWIS, A. H. Baily and Co , 83, Cornhill. 13, Great Marlborough‐street. M RS. TROLLOPE'S STORY of the NEW POOR‐LAW, entitled JESSIE PHILLIPS.-Part I is now ready, price one shilling. Illustrated by Leech, and embellished with a @ﬁne portrait of the Authoress. To be completed in twelve monthly shilling parts.-Orders received by all booksellers and newsvendor@@@@s. Henry Colburn,  Great Marlborough‐street. THE TWO POPULAR NOVELS OF THE SEASON. T H@E POPE and the ACTOR. By the Author@@ of Seymour or Sudley, Thirst for Gold, @@c. @@@Every page teems with beautifully expressed incident -Argus. Constructed with the skill of a Fielding, and framed with all the power of a Miss Porter. -Bell's Messeng@er.@@ It is a production of no ordinary merit. @-Morning Herald. T@he plot is admirably constructed-the composition of the sub- ject complete. -Court Journal. The best historical novel of the year. -Athenaeu@m. Miss Ellen Pickering's New Novel, Sir  By the Author of The Fright, Cha- rades  REV. H@ENRY BLUNT'S WORKS FOR FAMILY READING. A N EXPOSITION of the PENTATEUCH. Part II., Exodus and Leviticus, 6s. in cloth. Second Edition, Part I., Genesis, is now ready, 6s. in cloth. @@Sermons preached at Trinity Church, Upper Chelsea. Fifth edi- tion, 12@mo. 6s. cloth.-Lectures on the History of Elisha. Price 5s. @6d. in cloth. Fourth edition.-On Jacob. Fifteenth edition. 4s. 6d.-On St. Peter. Sixteenth edition. 4s. @6d.-On Abraham. Tenth edition. 5s. 6d.-On St. Paul. Ninth edition. Two vols. 5s. @6d. each.-On Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Three vols. 5s. @6d. each. Eighth edition.-Discourses on Some of the Doctrinal Articles of the Church of England. Eighth edition.@ 5s. 6d.-Expo- sition of the Epistles to the Seven Churches. Third edition. 5s. 6d. cloth.-Also Two Sermons on the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Eighth edition. 1s.-Trial of the Spirits. Sixth edition. 1s. 6d. Messrs. Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly and Messrs. Hamilton, Adams, and Co., Paternoster‐row. The Twenty‐eighth Edition of @1,000 each. F LETCHER'S FAMILY DEVOTION con- taining the Morning and Evening Service of a Family for Every Day throughout the Year. Embellished  Author, and Sixteen elegant Engravings. Bound in cloth, gilt edges, price £1 6s. Also, a splendid Edition, in royal 4to.,  the following distinguished  the County of Essex.-By Messrs. HOGGART and NORTON, at the Auction Mart, on Friday, January 13, at Twelve, by direction of a mortgagee,@@@ T HE LIFE ESTATE of Sir F. Vincent, Bart., under a power of sale, in the rentals and income arising from and out of the Debden Estate, farms, mansion, park, furniture, and e@ﬀects, timber and underwood. It appears that the present income is about £4,400 per annum, of ample amount to secure the interest upon the mortgages, and sundry annuities, leaving @@surplus of about £650 per annum.-Full particulars will be ready @ﬁfteen days prior to the sale, and may be had of Messrs. Pritchard and Col- lett, solicitors, Lincoln's‐inn@‐ﬂelds at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 62, Old Broad street, Royal Exchange. Absolute Reversion to One‐fourth Part of Five Copyhold and Free- hold Public‐houses, situate in and near to Colchester, in the county of Essex, on the death of a lady aged 63, and now producing on lease £310 per annum.-By Messrs. HOGGART and NORTON, at the Auction Mart, on Friday, January 13 instead of December 16, as before advertised , at Twelve,welve, T HE Absolute REVERSION, on the death of a lady, aged 63, to one‐fourth part of @ﬁve copyhold and freehold public houses, situate as under -The Red Lion, with stables, yards, garden, @@c., at Thorrington, about nine miles from Colchester the Red Lion, with the brewhouse, stables, @@c., at Folleshunt D'Arcy,ten miles from Colchester the Blue Bell, and nearly an acre of land, at the Old Hythe, in the borough of Colchester the Black Boy, with orchard and premises, at Werleigh, ten miles from Colchester andnd the Half Moon or Weavers' Arms, with cottage and premises adjoin- ing, in Middleburgh‐street, in the borough of@@@@ Colchester. The above houses are all in good trade, and are let on lease for a te@rm of four- teen years from Lady‐day, 1833, at a rental of £310 per annum.-M@ay be viewed by leave of the tenants and particulars had at the Cups, Colchester of Messrs. Pritchard and Collett,  at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 62, Old Broad‐street.  T. Ra@@ﬄes, LL.D., Liverpool. J. Pye Smith, D.D., Ho@m. College. W. B. Collyer, D.D , Peck-ham. J. Morrison, D.D., Chelsea. Adam Thomson, D.D., Cold- stream. J. Harris, D.D., Epsom. Josiah Pratt, B.D., Vicar of St. Stephen's, Coleman- street. G. Collison, D.D., Hackney. F. A. Cox, D.D., Hackney. J. Sherman, Surrey Chapel. J. Young, Albion Chapel.  Clay@ton, jun., Hackney. J. A. James, Birmingham. R. Philip, Maberly Chapel. J. Gilbert, Islington. J. Davis, Bristol. G. Legge, Bristol. W. Brown, Bristol. T. Binney, Weigh‐Houss. Samuel Luke, Chester. James Parsons, York. John Ely, Leeds. Samuel Ransom, Hackney. H. Calderwood, Kendal. J. Sibree, Coventry. G. Lawson, Selkirk.  Testimonials have also been received from nearly one hundred of the most i@nﬂu@ential clergymen of America. London George Virtue, 26, Ivy‐lane, and all booksellers.  Property, in the heart of the City of London, producing a rental of nearly  an Annuity or £100, payable during the life of the tenant for life.-By Messrs. HOGGART and NORTON, at the Mart, on Friday, January 13, at Twelve, in One Lot, A Very valuable REVERSIONARY INTEREST, expectant upon the death of a lady aged 48 to an important Freehold Property, occupying a large site of ground in the centre of the city of London, comprising nearly the whole of Three King- court, Lombard‐street three dwelling houses and shops, Nos. 5, 6, and 7, Nag's Head‐court, Lombard‐street three dwelling houses, counting houses, and premises, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, on the west side of a passage leading from Three King‐court to Lo@mbard‐street and a dwelling house. No. 4, on the north side of a passage leading into Clement's‐la@ne also the extensive warehouse, dwelling house, and business premises, situate an the north and east sides of a passage leading from Three King‐court into Lombard‐street, on lease to Messrs. Price and Gosnell the whole of this valuable property pro- ducing rentals amounting together to nearly £700 per annum. Also an Annuity of £100, most amply secured payable during the life of the lady aged 48, who is tenant for life, so that the purchaser will be in receipt of an income of £100 per ann. until the death of the life te@nant, when he will become possessed of the valuable property in reversion it i@@s subject to the payment of £3,800 within six months of the death of the tenant for life.-Particulars may be had of Messrs. Maltby and Beachcroft, Old Broad‐street of @Messrs. Bourdillon and Son, Great Winchester‐street at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 62, Old Broad@‐street, Royal Exchange. Freehold Rental of £50 per Annum, arising out of a capital Baker's @Shop and Premises, situate at the corner of Walker's‐court, Peter- street, in the parish of St.  HOGGART and NORTON, at the Mart, on Friday,  at 12, A Well‐secured FREEHOLD RENTAL of £80 per Annum, arising   @@'s shop and pre- mises, situate in Peter‐street, at the corner of Walker's‐court, in the parish of  double- fronted shop, with ba @ﬂour room, and loft over, and   attached. The  in a very populou@@s  and the business now carrying on is of a   sive nature. The premises are held by Mr. Arthur, a very  at the Auction Mart and of Messrs. Hoggart and Norton, 62, Old Broad‐street, Royal Exch@ange. M R. CAFE and SON will SELL by AUCTION, at their Rooms, Great Marlborough‐street@ @THIS  presu@mption, so variously pretty and graceful do they seem to us, and at suitable to the garden bench at to the Christmas  for B@@owdery and Kerby of whom may be had, gratis, their Catalogue of the Works of all the most approved  the use of young people, and where may be seen the @greatest variety of Bibles, Prayers, and Church Services in very superior @ﬁnished bindings.-190, Ox@ford‐street, between Orchard‐street and Duke‐street. MILLION OF FACTS.-Recently published, price 12s., T HE MILLION of FACTS or, Book of Reference on every   and Political Enquiry. By Sir RICHARD PHILLIPS. Also the following Elementary Books for Schools, price 1s.,  By Sir R. Phillips.  the Rev. David Blair. FIRST   By  GRAMMAR  the Rev. J. Goldsmith. Darton and Clark,  day, at 12 precisely, modern FURNITURE comprising four‐post and French bedsteads with chintz hangings, bedding, winged and other wardrobes, chest of drawers, dressing  room curtains, rosewood couches, sofas and chairs, loo, card, and work tables, winged cabinets, brilliant  sideboards,   chairs, library bookcases, tables and chairs. Axminster and Brussels carpets, horizontal, cabinet, and square pianofortes by Broadwood, Clementi, and Zeitter, an euterpion, a  pianoforte, a 12ft. billiard table with slate  le  articles, and kitchen requi- sites.-May be viewed, and catalogues  that the levy is sus- pended. The Su@ﬀrein French line‐of‐battle ship arrived here from Brest yesterday, Admiral  is said she will go to Rio de Janeiro. The French have also here the Iguala corvette and Volage brig of war and it is said that two more vessels are expected. The government has carried retrenchment into e@ﬀect to some extent, but all this will little avail if let slip, and something be not done  astrous results that would ensure to Portugal were the Spanish treaty to be concluded, and things here remaind has been made with the ny, the object of which is to alter the mode of payment of the balance due by the government to the company under pre- vious contracts and for which some of the current reve-nues were pledged, the company receiving  came in. The company take the balance, contos, in bills falling due on the 10th of  and so on till June next and the decima and other revenues  of the decima of 1840‐1841, had been pledg@ed for the repayment of a balance of 312 contos this sum is now to be repaid, partly by deducting  monthly payments of 100 contos each,  to make to the government, but chie@ﬂy by bills re- ceivable at the Custom‐houses for the tobacco duty, the latter being to the amount of 220 conto@@@@s. It has been asserted by the opposition journals that a French loan of 1,000 contos of reis is on the tapis, but the ministerial papers deny that there is any foundation for  that the Spanish government  up of the Gloria, alias Grande Antilla, to Vinent, on the ground that as the court  the papers by which she was converted from a Spanish to a Portuguese vessel were irregular, the transfer was consequently not complete, and she remained Spanish, and as such ought to be given up. This is a  a@ﬀair, and would give rise to great abuses if listened to by Portugal.tugal. The following article from the Nacional is a good speci- men of the view taken by the French partizans here of the events alluded to. It is entitled The executions at Barce- lona and the treaties with England - The accounts received respecting the blood which legal vengeance has shed in the capital are not uniform but the reports concerning the projects of the authorities seem to indicate that moderation will be unknown there. In Spain civil dissensions have always been accom- panied by the most horrible tragedies but experience ought to co@nvince the Spaniards that such means are en- tirely unsuited to gain whatever ends, and the progress of civilization ought to soften this barbarity. @@Would that the Regent would become aware of the evils that bloodshed must infallibly bring to his authority, to his reputation, and to the interest of the Queen her- self. Can it be true, however, what is said of the share that England has taken in the bad treatment received by un- happy Barcelona ? It would little surprise us. The question was to annihilate the industry of a con- tinental state, to remove the embarrassments that a manu- facturing province opposed to the consumption of English goods and the British arms have never @ﬁred a shot unless to facilitate the sale of some yards of cottons, or some boxes of poison. For this reason we are disposed to believe all that we hear in this sense@@@@. But we are also persuaded that those who now shoot Spaniards to serve Englishmen will not long be considered as Spaniards. But be it how it may, it appears beyond doubt, that the events of Barcelona although still wrapt in the darkest mystery are, at least on one side, in intimate relation with the e@ﬀorts of the English to conclude a treaty of commerce with the Spanish government and it appears equally certain that this treaty is either already made, or, at the least, is inevitable. We shall now see whether the advocates of conventions of this kind between ourselves and England will at last open their eyes we shall see whether the e@ﬀects of our treaty will or will not be such as we have so often said-the ruin of our manufactures industria , without any be- ne@ﬁt for our wines. Already bound by the treaty, and dependent on the English government respecting the duties in both countries, we shall be sacri@ﬁced by England the instant she shall have arranged her a@ﬀairs with our neighbours. The scale of duties will be against us both in the ports of Portugal and of England. In addition to so many internal causes of ruin, there will fall upon us the weight of calamity prepared by our most natural and most cruel enemies our country is destined to be converted into a desert. This is a fair specimen of the language held by our adver- saries here they would not make a treaty with us them- selves, neither would they allow us to make one with Spain. In whose interest can they write ? The question is an- swered by putting another question -What power is most interested in preventing our making treaties with either Portugal or Spain, by which the wines and brandy of those countries would @ﬁnd increased consumption in England, and British manufactures increased consumption in the Peninsula ? The Queen has this year again relinquished 50 contos of her income, and the King‐Consort 40 contos, in consequence of the necessitous state of the Treasury the Portaria of Baron Tojal announcing the fact is dated the 23d instant. Some one apparently well acquainted with the a@ﬀairs of the Lisbon Fishery Company has published an account of their actual state on the 30th of September last, from which it appears that the company, which is now in the seventh year of its existence, has sunk and lost 70 per cent. of its capital the latter amounted to 474 contos, being cash actually received from the shareholders while the cash in hand on the 30th of September, the vessels, and all other e@ﬀects of the company, including a number of abandoned shares, @@c., are estimated altogether at only 138 con@tos, showing a de@ﬁcit of 336 contos, and this, notwithstanding all the encouragement it has received from the legislature, which, to bolster it up, has levied such heavy duties on foreign salt @ﬁsh. The British steamer of war Locust came in from England for coal on Thursday, and left the next day for Malta. The Portuguese ship A@ﬀonso d'Albuq@uerque left for Angola and Mosambique on Saturday, taking 300 convicts for those colonies.ies. The Su@ﬀren, French line of battle ship, which cast anchor when she came in almost on the opposite side of the river, has since been towed to this side, and taken  the shore, which does not look like leaving. It is  ported, I know not on what grounds, that a Fr dron, under the command of an  for the present. 
 is overcome by giving the body proper and sufficient nourishment. When waste is active and you are losing flesh and strength, take Scott's Emulsion the Cream of Cod-liver Oil. It will overcome the waste by giving ample nourishment. Physicians, the world over, endorse it. Sco@t@t Bowne, Limited , London, E. C. All chemists 2 6 and 4  in the following lines-a rare chance  this worth your while@? Carefully read on and follow the simple instructions. You know that the manu- facturer supplying thousands daily can do so at LESS THAN HALF the price charged b@y shopkeepers selling only one in the same time. This is just our position. SEND YOUR NAME to-day for my Splendid Pictorial Guide Book, glowing with over a thou- sand illustrations of my  manufactures. I send with each a full list of my £2,000 FREE REWA@@RD Prize Distribution. As you read, thousands hasten to share and to post their orders. TAKE PEN AND @d enclose Post Office Order for the amount. IWILL  FORWARD, free and safe my post registered, into your own hands, my  Silver Acme Watch for Lady or Gentleman. A splendid three-quarter-plate, extra movement, sound and accurate. Lady's size, with richly-engraved cases and with dial beautifully tinted or plain, as preferred. Both sizes are remarkably neat and exact, yet strong and enduring. FIVE YEARS' WARRANTY AND A MONTH'S FREE TRIAL ALLOWED. Grand Value. Worth 3 Guineas. My price, 25s. A Thousand supplied per week. For this month only I undertake to supply a Second Quality of this Remarkable Watch, in Real Silver Cases. Price during this month, for the SECOND @@QU 15 -. I recom mend this watch as strong and durable. MOREOVER, to all readers wh GIFT, entirely in addition  particulars of which are fully set forth in the separate sheet, Nos. 101, 907, 989, which accompanies my Pictorial Guide Book. Purchasers therefore receive Double Gifts this week! The IMMENSE SUCCESS of H. Samuel's famous watches has flooded the market with worthless imitations, offered under various delusive names. Such imitations are frequently the sweepings of the market, and soon show their base character. @@@@@@@@H. Samuel's Watches are always reliable@! Always Valuable! Always Satisfactory@! Refuse all imita- tions and send to H. Samuel direct. You will be amazed at the splendid value re- ceived as shown in the THOU- SAND AND ONE Startling Bargains shown in my@@ Pictorial Guide. Double Prizes. Watches 7s. to £25. Gold and Silver Jewellery at largely reduced prices. Alberts, Brooches, Bangles. Scarf- pin@, @c., from 1s. Grand value in Cruets, Teapots, Knives, Forks, Spoons, Clocks, c. Wholesale Prices. Also hundreds of remarkable Testimonials and the above-mentioned sheet, containing full particulars of   101,997,989. £2,000. SPECIAL EXTRA GIFT. H. SAMUEL'S GRAND FREE REWARD BOND AND SPECIAL EXTRA GIFT COUPON. EXETER FLYING POST. Cut this out and enclose it with P.O. Order, and H. Samuel binds himself to send the Acme Watch at the reduced price of 25s., as descri@bed above, and to enclose a magnificent Prize Free, together with a Lady's or Gentleman's beautiful Platoride Gold Albert Chain Free, as an Extra Special Gift. Signed@ H. SAMUEL. P.O. Orders to be ma@de payable to H. SAMUEL, at the General Post Office, Manchester. @☞ Note that it is absolutely necessary to send this Coupon in order to receive my special extra gift albert. DOUBLE PRIZES.  Gold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1878. @The Prize Medal, Dublin Exhibition,  OLD IRISH WHISKIES. PUR@E. @MILD. and MELLOW. DELICIOUS, and VERY WHOLESOME. THE FINEST SCOTCH WHISKY  YORK ROAD, LAMBETH,  Sportsmen, Footballers, Athletes, c. @@@@NOT FOR HORSESES  wonderful prepara- tion for the relief of pain-for outward @application only, and is perfectly  not olister the skin.  ONE OF THE QUICKEST REMEDIES FOR RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, SPRAINS, PAINS  send postal order or stamps direct to the dep@@ôt, 12, Berners St., Oxford St., London,W.  Headache, Gout and Indigestion and the safest Aperient for delicate Constitutions, Ladies, Children, and Infants. SOLD THROUGHOUT THE  Remedies have stood the test of upwards of FIFTY YEARS' EXPERIENCE, And are pronounced the B Medicines for Family use Manufactured only at 78, NEW OX@FORD STREET, LONDON AND SOLD BY ALL MEDICINE VENDORS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. Advice Gratis, at the above @address, daily, between the hours of 17 and 4, or by letter.r Read, popularly known as the Southend murderer, was executed at Chelmsford on Tuesday. About half- past seven the Under-Sheriff @Mr. Gepp drove up with his quaintly-attired marshal on the box of the coach, and a moment after- wards the prison bell began to toll at short intervals. The two reporters who were to represent the public entered with the Under- Sheriff, and ten minutes of suspense were spent in the Governor's room in hushed con- versation. Billington, who came to Chelms- ford from London at half-past three on Monday and had slept at the gaol, came in hurriedly for some final instructions, and a moment later the gaol surgeon Dr. E. Hunt Carter was sent for. He was only absent for a minute or two, and remarked on his return that the convict had asked for a stimulant, and had been given some brandy, his chief anxiety, however, being as to the quickness and painlessness of his end. Dr. Carter assured him that he would feel nothing whatever, and Read appeared to be satisfied. Before this breakfast-a plain one, of bread and butter-had been eaten in the presence of the Chaplain, who said that Read was very grateful to him, and seemed to pay attention to his ministrations. The culprit had also slept well. Two or three minutes more an@d the Under-Sheriff and the Chaplain -th@@e latter in his black gown-went down a few steps to the great central hexagon of the prison. Billington-A LITTLE MAN IN A LIGHT SUIT, and wearing a light travelling cap-was already there,and at two minutes before eight entered the door of the first cell in one of the passages Read appeared to be prepared. He was wearing the light grey clothes which he had on at the trial, and on his head was a light cap like that of the executioner. Mr. Gepp asked for the last time if he had anything to say. He replied that he had only to thank the governor and all the officials for their continued kindness ever since he had been in the gaol. His beard was black and bushy. He was wearing a white collar which should have buttoned at the back of the neck, but was left open there, and as he passed form the cell into the central hall and thence into the open air he was supported by warders, but their help seemed needless, for he walked firmly and looked resolute, though his face was pale and his pinioned hands twiched convulsively behind him. As the bell struck a further knell the Chaplain began to read the Burial Service-@@ I am the resurrection and the life, and the warders outside fell in behind the little procession. Its was only a step or two to the foot of the gallows -@a ponderous cross erected in a little shed. Read, though stoutly built, is rea@dy a little man weighing just under nine stone, and a drop of 7ft 8in was allowed. Quietly enough he took his place on the trapdoor placing his feet where Billington directed. Almost before the last on the warders had made his way through the narrow doorway all was over. Across the drop a couple of black-painted planks were laid, and on these the stalwart warder who held the slight criminal by the left arm took his stand, but even then the support appeared to be unnecessary for Read held himself as if somebody else rather than he were chiefly concerned, and only muttered to Billington in an undertone, Button my coat. These were HIS LAST WORDS. The executioner pinioned the convict's feet-the arms had been fastened in the cell-snatched off and droped upon the scaffold the cap which Read had been wearing, and adjusted the noose with what sounds like a murmured word of apology. The piece of rubber which keeps the knot in position was at once drawn tight, t@he white cap was out of Billington's pocket and over Read's head, and then almost before those in the shed knew that the end had come the executioner stepped lightly to the lever and rested upon it for a moment. The trapdoors parted and Read's body dropped plumb to swing round in sickening fashion at the end of the rope eight feet below. A twitch or two of the limbs was noticed, but these, the doctor assured those present, were only due to the reflex action of the muscles, and the neck had been broken, death consequently being immediate and painless. Round and round the ghastly figure swung as the little party retired, only a warder or two an@d Billington being left near the corpse while it hung during the specified hour prior to the inquest. READ MADE NO CONFESSION. He died as @he had lived during these latter weeks, protesting his innocence to his family, and declining to say anything at all to the gaol authorities. Subsequently an inquest was held on the body, and the usual formal verdict was returned. Read's last@ letter, written a few hours before his death, was as follows - H.M. Prison, Chelmsford, Dec. 2nd, 1894 Dear Harry,-In spite of the truth and in detiance of the evi@dence presented to him proving my innocence, the Home Secretary has endorsed the murderous conspiracy of his professional brethren. Blood, I pre- sume, is, thicker than water, and 'cliqueism' is stronger than justice. I have written to him this afternoon asking if the inquiries I suggested have bee@n fully made and pointing out that if truthfully answered, then he is acting in defence of evidence. I  for an opportunity to procure th@ese proofs which the neglect of my legal representatives kept from judge and jury. My month thus being sealed, I have beforehand referred him @to the medical evidence, which showed that the girl was murdered between twelve midnight 24 6 and 25 6, and that four witnesses at @Mrs. Clothier's@ No. 1, Granville Villas, South-road, Southend, could answer for my being in bed the whole of that time, and now he says there has not been produced sufficient proof. Is not this monstrous? Is it not murder? If this is not proof of my innocence where for God's sake is there proof of  Hope to see you to-morrow @@Monday . With fondest love for all the loved ones at home, you@rs always, J. C. READ.@@ Mrs. Clothier, of 1, Gresham-villas, South- church-road, Southend. where Read alleged in his last letter that he slept on the night@ previous to the murder, left Southend about six weeks ago, and the house is now unoccu- pied, but from enquiries made of Armada-villas, Southchur@ch-road,it transpires that her Husband, Mr. Sicely, was interviewed by Detective-Inspector Baker and Super- intendent Hawtree some @days ago, in conse- quence of a statement in Read's petition to t@he Home Secretary. Mr. Sicely upon being shown a photo of Read at once recognised it as to the ma@n who breakfasted with hi@m at Mrs. Clothier's on the Sunday morning before the tragedy at No 1. Gresham Villas, where Mr. Sicely was at the time lodging.  ALL BILIOUS AND NERVOUS DISORDERS, SUCH AS Sick Headache, Constipation, Weak  Digestion, Diso Female Ailments. Prepared only by the Proprietor,  St. Helens. Lancashire, in boxes,  each. with full directions.  to Mr. John Morley on the subject of the potato blight in Ireland, says in certain districts famine is impending during the approaching winter, not only among the labouring classes, but among small farmers, and suggests Govern- ment relief in the form of loans to small occupier@s, and a renewal of the provisions of the Seed Supply Act. The writer adds that the last Government spent nearly three- quarters of a million more in Irela@nd in two years than the present Government in the same period. Dirt thinks itself th@e most abused When MATC@HLESS CLEANSER SO@AP is used. Archery is ascribed to Ap@ollo, who com- municated it the Cretans. On Tuesday evening Sergeant W@illiam Phillips, of the corps of Commissionaires, was knocked down and killed by a train at High Barnet Station. Mr Chamberlain has undertaken to write a short introduction to Dr. Gould's forth- coming book on Popular Control of the Liquor Traffic, which has been written for the Public House Reform Association, and embodies the results of three scientific investigations of the Schandinavian system made in Sweden and Norway by American experts. DELICIOU@S MAZAWATTEE TEAS  TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATT@EE TEAS In Decorated Tins for XMAS. PRESENTSN A@ND BEST,- THE QUEEN the Lady's News@paper says- Having made a fresh trial of its virtues, after considerable experience with other compo@unds of the same nat@ure, we feel no hesitation in recommending its use to all housewives who are @many difficulty in polishing their furniture. -December 22, 1883. Sold by  Caution.-@@See that the Name is on the bottle, and beware of cheap imitati@ons. TORPID  PURELY VEGETABLE. SUGAR COATEDCOATED All Chemists 1s. 1½d. Small Pill Small Dose Small Price. O NE BOX OF CLARKE'S B 41 PILLS is warrante to cure all discharges from the Urinary Organs, in either sex, acquired or constitu- tional, Grave and Pai in the Back, Guaranteed free from Mercury. Sold in boxes, 4s 6d each, by al@l Chemists and Patent Medicine vendors throughout the World or  to many address, for 60 stamps by the Makers, the Lincoln and Midland Countries Drug Com@- pany, Lincoln. HAIR DESTROYER. J AMES'S LEPILATORY Instantly Remove Superfluous Hairs from the Face, N@eck or Arms, without Injury to the Skin. Of most Chemists, 1s. or sent, with directions for use, free rom observation, post free, for fifteen stamps.-Mrs.  London, N A@ CLEA@R COMPLEXION. P IMPLES or black Specks, Sunburn, Freckles, an@@@d unsightly blotches on the Face. Neck, Arms, and Hands, can be instantly removed by using Mrs. @JAMES'S HERBAL OINTMENT, @made from herbs only, and warranted harmless. It imparts such a ovely clearness to the skin th@e astonishes ever@yone. Of all Chemists, 1s 1½d. A box with directions sent free from observation, post free, on receipt of fifteen stamps to Mrs. JAMES. 268. Caledonian-road, London, N. LUXURIANT HAIR. L ONG, FLOWING RYRLASHES, EYEBROWS, c., are QUICKLY PRODUCED by using JAMES'S HERBAL POMADE. It is invaluable for the produc- tion of Whiskers, Beards, and Moustachies it causes the hair to @grow on bald places and scanty partings. Of most Chemists, 1s or a box of it sent@ free from observation, post free, for fifteen stamps.---Mrs James, 268 Caledonian-road, Lon@ 1st Lanark Volunteers on Tuesday at Glasgow, Lord Roberts said that if there were 400,000 Volunteers at the beginning of this century there should now be one million. It was not however, numbers, but trained men who were needed in the hour of danger. If numbers were needed we should not hold our position in India, for frequently we fought against enormous odds there. We had now the spectacle of China, withher countless hordes, suing for peace to little Japan, whose army and navy were well equipped. REDUCED @AT@CA LUMBAGO NEURALGIA. The @T@ING PAIN is quickly relieved and cured in a few days by these cel@ebrated Pills. Sure, Safe. and effectual.@ Sold by all Chemist@ at 1s 1½d and 2s 9d per  was on Monday decide@d to wind up @the Bournemouth, Swanage, and Poole Steam- packet Company. The balance sheet showed a loss of £834 1s 5d on the year's working.@ It was stated that the directors contemplate a scheme for reconstructing the   FURNITURE  number of men were engaged Mon- day at the New Central Railway, Mary Hill, Glasgow, the gearing of a crane gave way and it fell among them. John Smith and James McGregor were terribly injured, Smith dying soon afterwards. A third man was less seriously hurt. Shocking Hunting Fatallty. While following the Cobold Hounds at Sand- hurst near Gloucester, on Tuesday, Mr. Hunt landlord of the Fleece Hotel, Cheltenham, met with a fatal accident. His horse jumped short at a fence and threw Mr. Hart, who held on to the reins. He was kicked in the throat and died within a few minutes of the occurrence. The Hopegood Case. At the Sussex Assizes on Monday, George Honegood pleaded guilty to causing a false entry to be made in a register of marriages at Brighton, but not guilty to other counts charging him with forgery and theft. The prosecution accord- ingly intimated that they would offer no evidence on these counts. Mr. Gill addressed the Court in mitigation of punishment, and his Lordship passed sentence of nine months' hard labour. Sudden Death of a Preacher. At@ Pensham, in the county of Durh@@@am on Sunday afternoon, John Smith, a preacher, while in the middle of delivering a special missionary sermon, was seen to suddenly reel backwards. He expired before assistance could be rendered to him. The congregation, which was a large one, was greatly affected by the tragic conclusion of the service. Exactly forty years ago another preacher, also named John Smith, died as suddenly in the same pulpit. Magistrate Committed for  on@ger SOLE PROPRIETORS-STEPHENSON BROS., BRADFORD.  Hawkins was charged on remand with having appropriated with intent to defraud the National Dwellings Company of which he was managing director, cheques for the aggregate sum of over £4,000. Defendant desired a further post- po@@ement of the case, but to this course strong objection was taken by the prosecution, and ultimately after some additional evidence Hawkins was committed for trial. Strange Case of Mistaken Identity. An extraordinary case of mistaken identity has just been reported to the Glasgow police. On October 29th the body of a young man was found floating in the Clyde and was identified @as that of Alexander Smith, 24 years of age, a blacksmith residing in @Renton. The father, two sisters, and an aunt making identification. The remains were buried by t@he relations at a cost of £3. On Friday night lastst the Smith family wore awakened from their slumbers by someone knocking at the @@door. The father shouted out Who's@@ there@? and was almost paralysed with astonishment on hearing It's me, Alec, in his son's well-known voice. It turned out that young Smith after he left home had tramped to England in search of work and had been employed in Blackburn for two or three weeks when be returned home again. nfamily medicine, prescribed by medical men for the common ailments of every- day-life, such as ACIDITY. HEARTBURN. INDIGESTION. BILIOUSNESS. SICK  LIVER. These famous Pills cleanse and regulate the whole system, leaving it free from all impurities. They carry off all unhealthy humours are admirable in women's ail- ments, overcoming all irregulari- ties and maintaining the system in health, strength, and vigour. To use them always is to keep yourself in perfect health-the bowels free, the liver active, the head clear, and the skin and com- plexion free from blemish@@@. IN USE FOR 94 YEARS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. COCKLE'S PILLS. Cockle's Pills are purely vegetable-warranted free from mercury. May be had throughout the United Kingdom, in boxes at 1s 1½d, 2s 9d, 4s 6d, 11s, and 12s.  GREAT OMOND ST., LONDON, W@.C Action Against a Newspaper. The trial was concluded at Liverpool Assizes on Tuesday before Mr. Justice Wills of the action for libel by Isaac B. Rose. member of the St. Helen's Town Council, against the St. Helen's Advertiser. Plaintiff contended that two leading articles which had appeared in the newspaper regarding his action in the Town Council had held him up to ridicule. The defence was that the refer- ences were not actuated by any ill-feeling toward the plaintiff. The jury awarded plain- tiff £200 damages. The Australian Rabbit War. It is stated that a new met@hod, having for its object he complete extermination of the rabbit pest, is being adopted in New South Wales and Victoria with much success. Inextinguishable cartridges genera- ting copious and penetrating volumes of deadly smoke or poisonous gas are placed in the burrows, the aperatures of which are then closed. Phosphorus being the only chemical known to science possess- ing the property of burning without air @and having a special affinity for oxygen, the abstraction of this within the close@ holes suffocates and buries by one process the old and young together. The Collision in the North Sea. Light is thrown on the identity of the steamer supposed to have foundered off the Norfolk coast after collision with the steamer Albertina by the receipt of a telegram at Yarmouth on Tuesday stating that the oil tank steamer Lucerna, of Hull, had arrived at that port damaged amidships through having been in collision with a steamer in the North Sea on Sunday in the fog. The fact that the Lucerna's damage was amidships confirms the story of the captain of the Albertina, who stated that he struck a large steamer which was brought up, and the Albertina's stem was completely smashed. The Lucerna is a large three-masted stea@mer of 3,242 tons, owned by a Hull company. Exquisite Model. Perfect Fit Guaranteed Wear.  Will not split i@n th@e  nor @@tear in the Fabric. Made in White, Black, and all t@@he fashionable Colours and Shad@es in Italian Cloth, Satin and Coutil also in the new Sa@ntar Woollen Cloth. 4 11, 5 11, 6 11, 7 11 per pair and upwards.  of Worth less Imitations. Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Out@utters. William the Conque@ is said to have originated the system of surna@mes. Westminster Hall is the largest room un- supported by pillars in the world. Hudson's is the Soap to buy, As everybody knows-It quickly drives the dirt away, But won't wear out the clothes! Camels are the only animal@ that cannot swim immediately they enter the water they turn on their back@ and die. Chafed Skin, Piles, Scalds,  Chapped Hands, Sore Ey@@es, Sunburn Earache, Neuralgic, and Rheumatic Plains, Throat Colds, and Skin Ailments q@uickly relieved by use of Calvert's Carbolic Oint- @ment. Large Pots 13½d  post free for value.@-F.C. Calvert and Co., Manchester. The Marquess of Granby, M.P., in a lette@r to the Licensed Victuallers' Association at L@eices@ter, states that his sympathies are entirely with the trade in the present crisis, so long as it is conducted in a legitimate and orderly manner. In Washing, MATCHLESS CLEANSER is a perfect Treasure, It saves @much work and time,  A house dinner will be held at the Devonian Club, Ashley's Hotel, London, on Monday next. A Cinderella dance is announced for January 17th at St. Martin's Town Ha@@ll, it having been decided to discontinue the annual ball.  the Anthropological Society of Paris, the longest bear@d in the world belongs to an artisan of Montlucon. It has not been cut for the last seven years, and measures about 5ft. 3in. @@ -Write for Illo. guide to the trade 259 pages 3d. H, @@to open a Cigar Store, £20 to £2,000.-Tobacconists' Outfitting Co., 18€, Euston-road@ London. M. Jules Simon, who is within a month of his @80t@h birthday, underwent on Monday an operation @of cataract. Mrs. F  has used Messrs. RE@KITTS PARIS BLUE for the past six years, and considers it unequalled for beauty and economy. Certainly much superior thumb or Liquid  of persons killed in the recent earthquake shocks in Southern Italy is officially stated to be eighty-six. About 600 were injured. The Royal Laundresses says Critchley's  unequalled for imparting a beautiful finish to starched linen, @@c., either cold or boiling water starch. Mr.-@Cornwall, says -. My wife will not finish our linen without your Starch Gloss. Mrs.-, Bradford - Dear Sir, I am pleased to inform you that I have tried many so-called Starch Glosses and Poishes, but find none equal to yours. It should be used in every house. Sold at 1d, 3d, and 6d by most starch seller. If not in sto@ck will procure it.-CHITC@HLEY, Blackpool, Proprietor. Some sensation has been caused at Swansea by the absence of the new L@ord Swansea from his father's funeral. There had been family  from these unfortunate  can be permanently cured, by an entirely New Method of Treatment, without the chance of failure. Write with full confidence to Mr. WILLIAMS, 11, Burwood-place, Norfolk-cresc@ent, London. He will send you full particulars free, of all charge. Arthur Kendall, 21, a clerk, of Hull, was sentenced to death at t@he York Assizes for the murder of John Russell. A Times second edition  Buenos Ayres s@ates that the the reduction of @the capital and inter@est on the guaranteed railways without proper consideration for the obligation of the Govern- ment to the companies. At Bow-street Police Court on Saturd@ay, Charles Wilson, waiter, and Henry Wilson, his brother, were remanded on a charge of conspiring with other men to defraud Mr. Blake, of Tiverton, by means of forged telegrams relating to betting. DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATT@EE TEAS DELICIOUS MAZAWATTEE TEAS In Decorated Tins for XMAS.S
  marry Oline, or pay her the sum awarded. She, in consequence, was obliged to put the decree in the hands @of the Kengensfoged, or King's Provost, an o@@ﬃcer spe- cially appointed to enforce the judgments of the civil courts. In due exercise of his functions, the Provost, on the 20th ult., went early in the morning, accompanied by a su@@ﬃcient force, to the house of the recreant blacksmith, and @ﬁnding him still in bed, made him get up, and con- ducted him to the church of St Seviour, where he found Oline with her witnesses, and the clergyman ready at the altar. The Provost having exhibited the decrees of the Court, the priest, in obedience to the laws, commenced the marriage service, and was on the point of pronounc- ing the words which would have irrevocably bound the two parties in the bonds of matrimony, when Mikkelsen, who had hitherto preserved a dogged silence, cried out lustily, Stop, stop ! I am willing to pay the damages. The ceremony was suspended, and before he was su@ﬀered to depart from the church he gave security for its discharge by instalments. When he came out he found a crowd of the lower orders, who greeted him with hooting and opprobrious cries.-' Galignani.'  duel which was to have taken place at Algiers, between Generals de Bourgon and de Bourjolli, has been prevented by the friendly exhortations of M. Duprech, the Bishop of Algiers.  soldiers serving in the Prussian dominions have been allowed by the Govern- ment to receive, instead of their daily rations of brandy, the value of the same in money. This step is calculated to promote the principles of the temperance societies, which, through their o@@ﬃcers, have formally returned thanks to the King for the privilege thus conferred.  following are some of the details of the late trip@ the Prince de Joinville across the Channel to the coast of England, and princi- pally to Brighton, accompanied by the Minister of Public Works and General d'Houdetot, as we have already noticed -His Royal Highness and his companions, on reaching the @ﬂoating breakwater, which is placed about three miles from the shore, at Brighton, found that two- thirds of this defence remained entire. They went upon it, and entered the hut erected for the keeper of the light, whom the Prince closely interrogated. This man attri- buted the accident to the pertinacity of the constructor in not allowing the mooring chain to be su@@ﬃciently strong. Upon this and the other information gained, no doubt was left in the minds of the inquirers as to the solidity of the breakwater itself, which, though incomplete, had for eight mo@nths sustained all the assaults of the most furious waves, and resisted even the recent hurricane which had done such vast damage in Normandy. By a singular coincidence, his Royal Highness had on his return a strong proof of the utility these breakwaters would have on the French side of the Channel, by his vessel, the Pluton, being obliged to make for Havre, instead of enter- ing Treport harbour, as she might have done had it been protected by one of them.  candidate for this o@@ﬃce most likely to succeed is General Almonte, the son of a priest named Moreles, who played a distin- guished part in the @ﬁrst insurrection. It is said that the name of Almonte originated in the circumstance, that when the insurgents were attacked by the Spaniards, the father's @ﬁrst cry was, El nino al monte ! the child into the wood ! . Almonte has been partly educated in the United States, and is far superior to the greater number of his fellow‐countrymen.  ' Gazette des Tribu- naux ' furnishes us with the following amusing anecdote - An ancient notary, M. S-, noted for his love of the enjoyments of life and his taste in gastronomy, was lamenting the postponement of the opening of the shoot- ing season, which deprived him for ten days of many a delicious morsel, when a man in the furred jacket and cap of a conducteur de diligence came to him and informed him that, on the road to Paris, the Baron de Bla , who was at his country seat at Luc, had desired him to bring to M. S-@an enormous basket which, from its appearance, contained not less than half a buck, six hares, twenty quails, and a dozen partridges. The conducteur, in dread of the new game law, refused to take charge of the basket, but was at last induced to do so on the assurance of the Baron that M. S-@would @ﬁnd the means of getting it into Paris, if it were but left at Nanterre. After a long conference on the di@@ﬃculties attending the introduction of this tempting present, the conducteur agreed to undertake this perilous job on receiving 60f., part of which he pretended must be dis- bursed by him in bribes. The money was given, and the conducteur departed with con@ﬁdent assurance that the game would be in the epicure's larder before the follow- ing morning. The morrow and two successive days having passed over without the delivery of the expected treat, or any notice from the conducteur, M. S-@con- cluded that he was done out of his 60f., and went to divert his chagrin by taking a walk in the garden of the Palais Royal. Here he met his worthy friend the con- ducteur strolling round the basin, but dressed in fashion- able attire, instead of his jacket and cap. On @@ the columns of ' Le Constitutionnel' the following interesting article on the subject of the internal commerce of Africa - The fact is now placed beyond a doubt that a very considerable commercial movement formerly existed between the Barbary regencies, Morocco, and the interior of the African continent. The want of security may, perhaps, have retarded it for some years, but the tendency, the necessities, and the habits of t@he people still remain, and it will be possible, by well‐organized e@ﬀorts, to restore to this commerce all its importance. The routes by which the goods and merchandise disembarked at Bona, Algiers, or Oran, are conveyed, are at present perfectly well known. Upon these routes are observed towns which serve as magazines or storehouses for the caravans, or as entrepots for the commodities such seem to advance abreast towards the @Desert. Thus Constantine, Medeah, Mascara, and Tlemcen form, on departing from the sea shore, the @ﬁrst line of markets for the produce of Europe. Tibessa, Biscara, Bou@çaada, Laghouat, and Stitten, con- stitute the second line and on the third, we @ﬁnd the Oued‐Souf, Tuggurt, Ouerguela, and Mettili.  on, but still presenting themselves in a parallel line, are El‐Sedamès, El‐Coleá, and El‐Arib. The merchandise which, from these three last points, is sent forward to wards the south, meets on its route with a most impor- tant market, that divides the crossing of the Desert, and forms the great oasis of Touat. From this station the caravans, which are there assembled by concentration, take di@ﬀerent routes, in order to proceed to the various parts of the Soudan. Our readers are aware that all commerce in that country is carried on by means of caravans. Exposed to the attacks and the robberies of the inhabitants of the Desert, the merchants are com- pelled to purchase the protection of the chiefs of these pirates of the Sahara. Amongst these tribes, the greatest and most numerous is, without doubt, that of the Touareg. They are excellent horsemen, and from time immemorial they have enjoyed the privilege of providing the escorts for the protection of the passage of the caravans. The Touaregs are a Barbary race they profess the Mussul- man religion according to the Malekite rites it is said that they have a pale complexion, and that they wear pantaloons which strongly resemble in their closely@‐ﬁtting form the pantaloons of the Europeans. Their women have blue eyes, and some of them are surprisingly pale. They the women smoke a great deal, and are considered very passionate they cultivate poetry with marked taste. It is related by Arabs who have made several journeys with the Touaregs, that these nomads are in the habit, when they cross the Desert, of placing inscriptions upon all the stones with which they meet. These inscriptions, which are most frequently in verse, set forth the lofty deeds of the writer, or, otherwise, challenges to an enemy, or the praises of a favourite @ﬂame. It is not uncommon to @@ﬁnd verses addressed to an unknown beauty, in which the poet hopes to soften the heart of the @ﬁrst beautiful girl who shall chance to read them. The woman who desires to reciprocate the love of the poet writes under the @ﬁrst in- scription a reply, wherein she betrays her name, and makes herself known. This amorous correspondence is very frequent. But what is still more curious, and worthy of riveting the attention of all our archaeologists and philologists, is the fact that these inscriptions are written in characters which do not resemble in the slightest degree the Arabic characters, and which the natives look upon as the written alphabet of the Targuia, or Barbary, tongue. The most credible conjectures give reason to believe that these characters are borrowed from the Phoenician writings. At Ouerguela there are Arte- sian wells hollowed out of the stone, and the piercing of which is ascribed by the tradition of the country to Alexander the Great. From Tuggart to Timbuctoo, the caravans are thirty‐seven da@ys on the road, including twenty‐nine encampments but eight days are devoted to repose at di@ﬀerent parts of this long march. It will be easy to render still more complete the information that has been already collected respecting the Sahara@, and the manners of its inhabitants, by sending native ex- plorers, already initiated in European civilization, who will be able to penetrate without danger into the very centre of  in the early part of July, adopted an ad- dress to their fellow citizens of the United States, with a declaration of principles which @are essentially embodied in the following resolutions -RESOLUTION@S ADOPTED JULY 5 AND 7, 1845. Believing our free institutions, if worth anything, to be worth preserving, and transmitting unimpaired. Believing the permanency of those institutions to de- pend upon the honest and intelligent exercise of the right of su@ﬀrage. Believing that ruin, if it come, will come through a perversion and abuse of that right. Believing such perversion and abuse to have already prevailed, and to be now increasing to an alarming ex- tent. Believing that the greatest source of evil in this respect is to be found in the rapid in@ﬂux of ignorant foreigners, and the facility with which they are converted into citizens. Believing that Americans in form should, and of right ought to be, Americans at heart. Believing that under any circumstances it is dangerous  Bible, as the only basis of Chris- tianity, lies at the bottom of all truelibe@rty a@ and thus, as the corner‐stone of our  be freely read by all men. 5. Resolved, That removals from important o@@ﬃces under the general government should be made like ap- pointments, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, or other approving body, except in the absence of the Senate, when the President may have the power to suspend for cause. 6. Resolved, That these principles, lying as they do at the very foundation of our political freedom, and our na- tional existence, involve, and are paramount to all others, however important to our external prosperity.y. 7. Resolved, That the interest, the honour of the na‐ tion, as well as the real welfare of all parties, require that subordinate party questions should be made to yield to the great principles for which we are contending. 8. Resolved, That organizations of Native American associations should be established in all the townships and wards of cities throughout the United States. 9. Resolved, That the appointment of two delegates from each congressional district, be recommended to meet in general convention, on the second Tuesday of May, 1847, to nominate candidates for President and Vice‐Pre- sident of the United States, and that the place of meeting be Pittsburg, Pennsylvania. 10. Resolved, That we advocate the principle that no alien should be naturalized, except on the production of a Custom‐house certi@ﬁcate, to be procured on @his landing on these American shores, proving his residence of twenty- one years such certi@ﬁcate to be given up to be cancelled. 11. Resolved, That we hold it to be the duty of all true native Americans to give their su@ﬀrages to those only who subscribe heartily to our principles, and will maintain them. 12. Resolved, That as native Americans we hold it to be our duty to take high moral grounds on all subjects, to grapple with the principles of right, of truth, and of justice, without regard to mere questions of availability, and to contend for them fearlessly against the world. 13. Resolved, That the several executive committees of the States be requested to appoint, each two proper per- sons, to constitute a corresponding national committee. 14. Resolved, That while every constitutional e@ﬀort should be made to guard against the deleterious conse- quences of a rapidly‐increasing immigration, by the enactment of the most e@@ﬃcient laws for the accomplish- ment of that all‐important object, still a generous mag- nanimity requires that those aliens who are, or may be- come, inhabitants of the United States, should be kindly received, and every privilege extended to them, except that of participating in any of our political administra- tions, and exercising the right of su@ﬀrage, until after a residence of at least twenty‐one years. 15. Resolved, That as native Americans, we will foster and defend all the great interests of our country, its agriculture, its commerce, its mechanics, manufactures, navigation, mining, and science, @ﬁne arts, and literature, against the world. 16. Resolved, That we do advocate the passage of laws imposing upon all foreigners coming hither for purposes of permanent residence a capitation tax su@@ﬃciently large to prevent the excessive in@ﬂux of vicious and pauper immigrants, and that we do this as a matter of self- defence. 17. Resolved, That we urge the promotion and foster- ing of all means of moral and intellectual culture, by per- manent provisions for general education, believing the in- telligence of the people to be necessary to the right use and the permanence of our liberties, civil and religious. 18. Resolved, that the native American party do, and will continue to advocate the principle that the naturali- zation of foreigners be con@ﬁned exclusively to the courts of the United States, and also that a public registration of all applicants for the elective franchise be made. 19. Resolved, That we advocate the universal toleration of every religious faith and sect, and the total separation of all sectarianism and politics. 20. Resolved, That we recommend that no alien be permitted to land in these United States without a certi- ﬁcate of good moral character, and who is able to provide for his own support, which certi@ﬁcate shall be signed by the United States Consul of the port whence he sailed, and also that a registry be made of said alien, in con- formity with the Act of Congress, passed in 1802, under President  commit the ballet box, the ark of our freedom's cove-basket of game, the audacious fellow coolly replied that it had been seized. ' Oh, oh !@' replied M. S-, ' well, then, as my basket has been seized, I will seize a thief ' and, suiting the action to the word, he, though more than  our destinies to the pos- sible control of them, who may be foreigners in heart, and Americans in form only. Believing that from any of the old political organ@ over to the guardhouse of the Chateau d'Eau,  of the palace.  have been received at Lloyd's of the discovery of black lead mines at Davis's Straits. The Eagle, Strai- ton, at Leith Roads, from that place, has about 100 tons on board, and would have had a full cargo, but ran short of powder for blasting. She left the Magnet, of Peter- head, loading, with from thirty to forty tons on board. The Comet and Venus, of Leith, had just commenced. Therefore, 1. Resolved, That we do hereby form our- selves into a national political party, for the radical re- form of abuses, and the preservation of our institutions  sessions on the 6th inst., before Mr F. S. Cox, John Car- penter, of Sandford, labourer, was charged by Richard Morris, a gamekeeper, for Mr Bolton, with having, on the 29th of August, at Sandford, used a snare for the purpose of taking game without having a certi@ﬁcate so to do, w@hereby he had rendered himself liable to a penalty of 20l. Car- penter did not appear. Gardner, a police o@@ﬃcer, said, he on the previous morning served a duplicate of the summons on the wife, who then told him that she did not know where her husband was, and that she had not seen him since the morning that the keeper sought him. The clerk seemed to doubt whether the summons had been served long enough to justify the case being gone on with in Carpenter's absence. Mr Cox considered that time enough had elapsed, and said that Carpenter had left on purpose, because he should not be served, and to avoid these proceedings. The police o@@ﬃcer said he understood that he h@ad left a place of work, and had gone o@ﬀ in consequence of the keeper having taken him. John Sanbrook, a looker‐out for the above Mr Bolton, said, On the evening of the 28th of August, he found a snare, and watched it. At about half‐past @ﬁve the next morning, Carpenter came to it, took a hare from it, and was about removing the snare when wit- ness took him into custody, took the hare from him, and searched him, but found nothing in his pockets, but he had a loaded gun with him, a powder @ﬂask, and a shot‐belt. Took his gun from him, but gave him it again, because it was not on their manor, and he did not know whether he  could answer taking it away. It did not appear that Car-Car@@@@- penter had been previously convicted. Mr Cox said  could have proceeded against him if he had liked, for being  the full penalty. As regarded money it made no di@ﬀerence  @@@him, for he could not pay @ﬁve farthings. H@e 
 neymen shoemakers@@, the soldiers had  in restoring  gone abroad that the other trades were about to come to the assistance of the jour- neymen shoemakers, the soldiers had been ordered to re- main in their quarters, to be in readiness in case of need. @THE  accounts from Leipsig of the 1st inst. we learn that the town en- joyed tranquillity in appearance, but there was consider- able agitation in the public mind. Some apprehensions existed that disturbances might break out on the 4th of September, the anniversary of the festival of the consti- tution. The commission of inquiry was pursuing its re- searches, but it is not yet known who gave orders to the troops to @ﬁre on the people. The report of the Commis- sion is looked for with some impatience. The circular of the Minister of the Interior, on popular assemblies, has excited much discontent. It was at Stolzenfels that the King of Prussia agreed with the German Princes, on the representations of Prince Metternich, that energetic mea- sures ought to be taken against innovators and political assemblies, as tolerating them longer might be attended with dangerous consequences. The anniversary fête of the constitution was celebrated on the 4th inst. with great rejoicing. Large bodies of men and women passed through the streets as early as @ﬁve in the morning, sing- ing patriotic songs. Later in the day there were public services in the churches, after which the Communal Guards assembled on the Rossplatz, and went through a series of evolutions. They afterwards @ﬁled o@ﬀ in front of the Hotel de Ville, on the balcony of which the autho- rities showed themselves. Everything passed o@ﬀ with great calmness and propriety.  letter from Vienna states that it is in contemplation to reduce the personal tax paid by the Jews in Bohemia. @The 'German Journal of Frankfort@' publishes a letter from Co- logne, of the 3rd inst., stating that some turbulent persons had got up a meeting there on the 2nd, for the purpose of passing a resolution not to accept the present of 3,500 thalers about 560l. , made by Queen Victoria towards the works of the cathedral, and requesting her to give it to the poor Irish or the Anglican church. A commissary of police, accompanied by some gendarmes, however, en- tered the place of meeting, and ordered the persons pre- sent to disperse before any resolution was come to on the subject under discussion. The injunction was obeyed.  'Manheim Gazette' states that, in the afternoon of Au- gust 29, the public tranquillity was disturbed in a strange way at Heidelberg. Some individuals suddenly collected on the Ludwigs Platz, and, placing themselves near the Museum, @ﬁred several shots. They then withdrew as quickly as they had come, and when the police arrived every one had disappeared.  a Minis- terial order Czerski is prohibited from preaching any more in the city of Posen. The President of the Police proceeded to meet him, and prevent his arrival at Posen, whither he was called by a very pressing invitation of the Catholic Christians.  letter from Friburg of the 5th, in the ' Frank- furter Journal,' states that two shots were @ﬁred at Meran, in the Tyrol, at the King of Wurtemburg, but fortunately without hitting him. The '@Carlsruhe Gazette' makes mention of a report of the same kind. The Jesuits are considered, it says, as the authors of this attack, in con- sequence of the King having spoken, when in Switzer- land, openly against the in@ﬂuence of that society. His language to Siegwart Muller, the head of the Jesuit party at Lucerne, produced a great sensation. THE  putations of the leaders of Central and South Germany, together with the clergymen, assembled on the 1st of September at Oppenheim for deliberation. According to report the resolution was unanimously adopted, to attend the synod at Stuttgard, which is @ﬁxed for the 15th instant, by deputations. Ronge is to be there, and on his return will visit Frankfort, and perform divine service with the Catholic dissenters. Frankfort is to receive in a short time visits from several of the clergymen who have con- formed to the new sect. SPAIN.  '@Memo- rial Bordelais' has the following - The Queen will re- turn to Madrid on the 14th of September, and the Cortes are to be convoked for the 10th of October. It seems certain that Queen Isabella will marry Prince Leopold Francis Julius of Saxe Coburg, born 31st January, 1824, younger brother of King Ferdinand of Portugal and cousin to the husband of the Queen of England. France, it appears, will consent to this marriage provided the sister of the Queen marries the Duke de Montpensier, and all Europe is agreeable to an arrangement so long desired by Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. It is said that the King of the Belgians has worked hard to secure this re- sult. Our Ambassador at London, the Duke de Soto- mayor Spanish Ambassador , appears to have contributed his part to the same end. He has defeated the combina- tions of the partisans of the Comte de Trapani and the Comte de Montemolin Prince of Asturias , who presented themselves at @ﬁrst with some chance of success.  of the most distin- guished Generals of Don Carlos, Balmaseda, died a few days ago at Chagny, in France, where he had @ﬁxed his residence for some time past.  '@Jour- nal des Debats' published on Wednesday the following telegraphic despatch, dated Madrid, midnight, on the 5th instant - An attempt at insurrection was made this evening at ten o'clock, but was promptly repressed by the troops. Only one o@@ﬃcer was killed. PORTUGAL.  have Lisbon dates to the 1st inst. The manager of the late elections, Senor José Cabral, was banqueted in Oporto, in honour of the success of his measures, and made an exposition of his political sentiments. The Queen has been advised to con@ﬁrm the late expression of the nation's will in favour of the Ministry, by going on a visit to her Minister, An- tonio Cabral, to his castle at Thomar. The Count Tojal had gone to Oporto professedly to inspect the Customs and to make some @ﬁscal arrangements the real object of this visit was said to be money arrangements with the capitalists of that city, those of Lisbon having made con‐ ditions for a respite from loans for some months. The elections had drained the treasury. Another such victory, it is to be feared, would be fatal to the foreign creditors. RUSSIA. A  from Taganrog, of Aug. 10, announce that Prince Woronzo@ﬀ, after his expedi- tion on Dargo, had resolved to adopt the new warfare à la Pelissier-that of burning the forests which serve as shel- ter to the Circassians. Upwards of @ﬁfty waggons, laden with turpentine, resin, and other in@ﬂammable matters, had left Taganrog for Stavropol. THE  'Cologne Gazette' con- tains an article declaring that Russia is busy summer and winter in her dockyards at St Petersburg, and that she has lately introduced Paixhan's mortars into her navy. She possesses in the Baltic at present, 1 ship of 120 guns, 3 of 110, 15 of 84, 12 of 74, 30 of 64 to 44, and 120 of less power, amongst which are steamers armed for war. In the Black Sea she has 2 ships of 120 guns, 2 of 110, 12 of 84, 8 of 74, 8 of 60, 10 of 44 and 100 smaller vessels in the Caspian and White Seas.  from Warsaw of the 22nd ult. announce that the Emperor had issued a decree granting a general pardon, and restoring to their property, which had been con@ﬁscated, the following Polish emigrants -Prince Gabriel Mirski, Stanislas Chaynaki, S. Kasperski, A. Koyanowski, the Brothers Mikalowski, K. Nidecki, J. Protowski, P. Winekierski, Z. Wisniewski, L. @@Hoffmani, Z. Uzynski. WEST INDIES. JAMAICA.-The last accounts from the West Indies state that the railway from Kingston to Port Royal was fully expected to be opened on the 1st of October. Not one of the English labourers had died, which was attri- buted to their abstaining entirely from drinking rum. The weather at Jamaica had been exceedingly dry and warm generally throughout the island, and the heat at Kingston very severe. The accounts from the agricul- tural districts continue satisfactory with regard to the soil, but great complaints are made of the total cessation of labour, in consequence of the labouring population de- voting part of an expected three weeks of indolence to the anniversary of freedom-a serious a@ﬀair to those parishes in which the present year's crop had been re- tarded by the dampness of the earlier portion of the sugar crop. Notwithstanding these disadvantages the crop for the present year even considerably exceeds the average of late years. These holidays, which commenced on the 1st of August, had, as far as they had gone, proceeded without disturbance, and it was expected would be gene- rally indulged in nearly the whole time, in no cases less than seven days.  papers to the 3rd of July speak of an engagement having taken place at Cachiman between the insurgents, numbering 1,500 men, and two detachments of Government troops, num- bering in the whole only 600 men. The attack lasted four hours, and ended in the total rout of the insurgent body, leaving a considerable number of dead bodies on the @ﬁeld of battle. The Government troops, on their part, su@ﬀered a loss of 4 killed and 26 wounded. A de- cree, under date of the 10th of July, pronounces perpe- tual banishment from Hayti of the following individuals, stated to have taken part with Gen. Herard in his late attempt to invade the Republic, viz. -Rinchere, Leo Herard, Tullus Herard, Merveilleux Herard, Saint Cyr Bourjolly, Joseph Racolier, Favard, Vilmenay, and Roy. HOLLAND.  ceremony of opening the New Exchange in this city was to take place with great solemnity on Wednesday last. The King and Princes were to be present. TURKEY.  whole Pachalik of Bagdad is in alarm. Redschid Pacha, the governor of that province, a fanatic Turk, well known for having taken by storm the holy city of Kerbela, has ex- pelled Achmed Pacha, the hereditary governor of Suli- manie, from his post, after a desperate action, he having caused a messenger to have his head cut o@ﬀ, whom Reds- chid had sent to summon him to appear in person before the governor. Redschid, indeed, appointed a brother of Achmed in his room, but in vain. Arabia is likewise in a complete state of rebellion. The state of Albania and Bosnia is not much better. The orders of the Porte are scarcely attended to in these provinces, and the new sys- tem of recruiting cannot be carried into e@ﬀect there. The Sulina mouth of the Danube has been so choked up with sand, during the whole summer, that no mer- chantman has been able to enter. who cannot get away are obliged to compete with the convicts, and thus earn a miserable subsistence in this devoted and degraded colony. Insolvencies are now be- come so numerous that they pass unnoticed. Cargo after cargo arrives, and as the idea of credit has become absurd, they are sold for immediate cash at a ruinous sacri@ﬁce to the London merchant. Money we have none to send you home, and must claim your further indulgence all our misery has been caused by Lord Stanley's absurd policy we were happy, prosperous, and @ﬂourishing, before he inundated us with an overwhelming @ﬂood of crime and nothing but a speedy alteration of the convict system can relieve us. All our hopes, therefore, rest on our petition to Parliament.  from Rio to the 7th of July have been received by way of France. They contradict the report that the previous packet had brought home a treaty between the Brazilian and Eng- lish Governments@-'@Liverpool Times.' VAN DIEMAN'S LAND.  fol- lowing is an extract from a letter dated Hobart Town, April 30th, 1845 - Robbery, violence, and indolence, stalk through the land that portion of the free labourers who had the means to leave have already done so,  Texas and Mexico, which, without desiring here to express an opi- nion on the argument it contains, seems to us written in a spirit not undeserving of attention. TO THE EDITOR OF THE EXAMINER. Sir,-I am surprised to observe that the unreasonable tone generally adopted by the journals in this country, in relation to the annexation of Texas, has called forth no re- mark on the part of unprejudiced and discerning English- men. Annexation is generally pronounced to be a great injury in@ﬂicted by the United States Government on Mexico, and just cause for a declaration of war by the latter indeed it is frequently stigmatised as robbery on the part of the United States, and an insult to the civilized world. Observe all these hard names are lavished upon the act of annexa- tion, not upon the acknowledgment of the independence of Texas as a State, in the @ﬁrst instance, or the conclusion of treaties of commerce with her nor yet upon the emigra- tion of armed Americans into Texas during her struggle for independence. Whatever wrong may have been committed then, and I think it was a great wrong, although one which the Government of the United States would have found it almost impossible to prevent, little was said about it on this side of the water. A few individuals raised their voices to denounce it, but Governments soon got reconciled to a wrong which they thought they could turn to their own pro@ﬁt treaties were made with these very American emi- grants loans of money granted and the young Republic was fast rising into favour with European Governments, when it was suddenly discovered that these people had more sympathy with their @ﬁrst cousins in the States than with their tenth cousins in England, and were actually thinking of joining the Union. Negotiations and manoeu- vres were now resorted to, to prevent this act of a people acknowledged by England to be free and, these nogotiations failing, the British press opens an attack, from one end of the kingdom to the other, upon the Americans and Texans, and for what ? Not for having broken any compact with England, or done her any wrong not for having made a very foolish arrangement as far as their own interest is concerned, about which much might justly be said but for having cheated and robbed Mexico. The Texans, with whom England was hand and glove, are suddenly discovered to be rebels, and the Americans invaders and robbers, for treating with them upon more favourable terms than Englrnd could do. I saw it gravely questioned the other day, even in your paper, whether England would give up her claim on Texas as @part of Mexico, for the debt due by Mexico to England @? and this after acknowledging the independance of Texas and loaning her money@@@ ! Really this seems to be either very dull or very insincere. I am one of those Americans who consider the act of annexation as a very improper one on the part of the Go- vernment of the United States, for various reasons, moral and political. I object to it because it may prolong the existence of slavery because it increases our territory, al- ready too large and especially, because it has been brought about by means which I consider unconstitutional but what is all this to Mexico ? If she wished to quarrel with us, it should have been when our Government acknow- ledged the national existence of Texas. The Texans, being once established as an independent nation, have certainly a right to negotiate, as well with America as with England and the Americans have a right to negotiate with them, without being branded as robbers for being able to conclude a treaty which England happens to be averse to. I remain, Sir, your very obedient servant, AN AMERICAN. COURT AND ARISTOCRACY. HER MAJESTY.-The Court are not expected to arrive at the Castle until the end of the month. Friday, the 26th instant, is at present named for the departure of her Majesty from Osborne house. The 'John o'Groat Jour- nal@' says- We believe it is now generally understood that it is the intention of our Most Gracious Sovereign to pay a visit to Dunrobin Castle so soon as the extensive improvements now going on shall have been completed. THE  Queen Dowager will leave Bushy Park for Witley on Tuesday next. It is expected that her Majesty's illustrious relatives, the Duchess Ida of Saxe Weimar, with the Princesses Anne and Amelia, will accompany her Majesty. Earl Howe will be in at- tendance on the Court. The Duchess of Kent left Gotha on the 8th inst., for Frankfort, where she will stay three days, and then proceed to Brussels. The Duke of Cam- bridge, who is travelling under the title of the Earl of Culloden, arrived on Sunday night at Cologne. He pro- ceeded next day to the Palace of Rumpenheim, on the road from Frankfort to Wurtzburg.   legacies bequeathed by this esteemed lady to private friends, and to religious and charitable institutions, are very numerous, and amount to 145,000l., all clear of the duty, which is di- rected to be paid by the residuary legatee Earl de Grey . Among the legacies are 5,000l. to the Ripon Diocesan Church Building Society 1,000l. to each of the following institutions -the Leeds In@ﬁrmary, York County Hos- pital, Harrogate Hospital, Ripon Dispensary, and Middle- sex Hospital and 20,000l. to each of the two executors, Bowdler, and the Vice‐Chancellor, Sir L. Shadwell. @We have previously stated the disposition of the landed estates.  Very Rev Thomas John Burgh, Dean of Cloyne, died at Oldtown
 0d to 5l 10s 0d Clover . . 4l 4s 0d to 6l 6s 0d  0d to 2l 0s 0d FROM THE LONDON GAZETTES. Tuesday, September 9. PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED. J. Lloyd and R. K. Parker, Lower Homer@ton, Hackney, builders -J. Holbeck and J. Jennens, Princes street, Hanover square, gold lacemen-R. F. Hews and G. Hews, Storrington, Sussex. tailors-T. M. I. Tilby and G. R. Clover, Liverpool, metal merchants -W. Walker, surgeon, and H. Walker, chemist, St John street, Clerkenwell-Mary Hodgson and Anne Jane Hodgson, Liverpool, boot and shoemakers-W. Haimes and T. Haimes, Melbourne, Derbyshire, lace-glove manufacturers-C. Faircloth and A. Arm- strong, Lad lane, City, accountants-H. Kennedy and J. Kennedy, Taunton, drapers-J. Webster and T. Staley, Stockport, grocers-@R. Johnstone, W. Flockton, and J. W. Brooke, owners of a patent for the manufacturing of lamps for the combustion of naphtha, c. -W. W. Hyde, J. H. Dutchman, and C. Johnson, Hull, auc- tioneers-T. Smith, C. J. Coates, and B. Bell, Water lane, Great Tower street, City, ship and insurance brokers so far as regards C. J. Coates-D. Duckett and @H. Palmer, Brighton, linendrapers -J. Henderson, sen., and J. Henderson, jun., Taunton, mercers-P. Pearce and W. Chater, Haverhill, Su@ﬀolk, grocers. 5 BANKRUPTS. S. Davies, Somerset wharf, Bankside, Southwark, coal merchant. Husband and Wyatt, Gray's-inn square. F. Ward, Rosomon street, Clerkenwell, oilman. Keighley, Basing-hall street. J. Savage, Old Compton street, Soho square, victualler. Spring- hall and Co., Raymond buildings, Gray's inn. G. Cox, Plymouth, victualler. Penkivile, West street, Finsbury. J. Ramsden, sen., Armley, Leeds, cloth manufacturer. Sudlow and Co., Chancery lane. DIVIDENDS. October 2, B. B. Owen and B. G. Owen, Pallmall, tailors-Oc- tober 2, G. Nettleton, Brompton, Kent, tailor-October 2, T. K. Gorbell, Bedford place, Commercial road, bookseller-October 2, J. Stammer, Charles street, Grosvenor square, brush dealer-October 2, W. Hill and W. K Wackerbath, Leaden@hall street, City, ship agents-October 2, R. Blunden, Alton, Hampshire, plumber -October 10, N. Phillips, Haverfordwest, banker-October 7, T. Rees, Liverpool, brewer-October 10, J. Scott, Birmingham, gun maker-October 2, C. H. Greenhow, North Shields, ship broker-October 2, T. Revely, jun., Newcastle-upon-Tyne, plumber-October 2, R. Currie, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, bookseller-October 2, J. Lambert, New Elvet, grocer-October 2, T. Wright, New- castle-upon-Tyne, ship broker-October 2, J. Stainthorpe, Hex- ham, Northumberland, common brewer. CERTIFICATES to be granted, unless cause be shown to the contrary on the day of meeting. October 2, H. Wood, Abchurch lane, general agent-October 2, W. Matthews, Lisson grove North, Marylebone, pianoforte maker -October 3, T. Powell, Allerton By@water, brickmaker-October 2, T. R. Creig@h, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, cartwright-September 30, W. R. Carscaden, York, hosier-September 30, M. Allen, St Helen's, Lancashire, butcher-September 30, H. J. Witchell, Car- narvon, bookseller-October 1, J. Spencer, jun., Liverpool, builder -October 1, G. Laurie, Fleetwood-upon-Wyre, Lancashire, chemist -October 2, J. Aldcroft, Longsight, Lancashire, victualler. CERTIFICATES to be granted by the Court of Review, unless cause be shown to the contrary on or before September 30. T. Clarkson, jun., Charles street, Middlesex Hospital, uphol- sterers' warehouseman-J. Lewis, Birmingham, card manufacturer -W. M'Alpine, Liverpool, tailor-F. L. Cole, Fenchurch street, City, wine merchant-J. Commins, Weymouth, Dorsetshire, book- seller-J. Furnival, Kettering, Northamptonshire, corn dealer. Friday, September 12. PARTNERSHIPS DISSOLVED. J. Metford, jun. and R. Jennings, Southampton, ironmongers-J. P. and J. Firmstone, Warneford court, Throgmorton street, iron merchants-@R., G. P., and J. H. Dart, Terceira-J. G. Newman and R. de Lambert, Kendal, iron merchants-J. Hyndman and W@. M'William, Swansea, tea dealers-G. Laws and C. Burt, High street, Stoke Newington, painters-J. Ridgway and F. Favarger, Valparaiso, commission merchants-G. Jones and R. D. Hughes, Bangor Slate Wharf, Pimlico, slate merchants-W. M. Spiring and Co. Westbromwich, manufacturing chemists-C. T. Naylor and C. Clegg, Liverpool, merchants-C. Ellis and G. Stimson, She@@ﬃeld, whitesmiths-W. Laycock and @H. Boothroyd, Lepton, Yorkshire, dyers-T. and J. F. Silby, Poole, ship owners-R. Pickup and J. Ormerod, Bury, Lancashire, cotton spinners-J. Rylands, jun. and W. Jones, Warrington, Lancashire, boiler makers-T. Wright and W. Green, Little Hulton, Lancashire, coal merchants. 5 BANKRUPTS. W. So@ﬀe, Strand, printseller. Sanger, Essex court, Strand. N. G. Coombes, Craven street, Strand, coal merchant. Manning, Craven street, Strand. J. Sutcli@ﬀe, Halifax, Yorkshire, recti@ﬁer. Emmet and Allen, Bloomsbury square. J. Adamson, Stockport, grocer. Coppock, Cleveland row, St James's. R. J. Sharp, Liverpool, victualler. Vincent and Sherwood, Temple DIVIDENDS. October 6, C. Thornton, Hudders@ﬁeld, stationer-October 4, J. H. Bazley, Manchester, cotton manufacturer. CERTIFICATE to be granted, unless cause be shown to the contrary on the day of meeting. October 7, J. C. Dempsey, Bristol, picture dealer. CERTIFICATES to be granted by the Court of Review, unless cause be shown to the contrary on or before October 3. J. Banks, Liverpool, tallow chandler-J. Welch, Ring cross, Holloway, licensed victualler-W. Nell, Manchester, brewer. SCOTCH SEQUESTRATIONS. J. Balsillie, Irvine, cabinet maker-G. N. Baxter, Dundee, ship  Night O N MONDAY will be revived the Popular Comedy, by Mrs Gore, in Two Acts, of KING O'NEIL or, the First Brigade. Captain O'Neil @ﬁrst time , Mr Hudson Louis XV, Mr Howe General Dillion, Mr Stuart Arundel, Mr H. Holl. After which fourth time , the highly successful Comic Drama called THE FALSE MR POPE. Principal Characters by Mr Buckstone, Mr Hudson, Mr Howe, Mr Tilbury, Mr Gough, Mr Clarke Miss J. Ben- nett, Miss P. Horton, Mrs E. Yarnold, Miss Carre, and Mrs Caul@ﬁeld. With MRS CAUDLE'S CURTAIN LECTURES. And THE KING AND I. On Tuesday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR PO@PE. USED UP. And HOW TO PAY THE RENT.T.@@ On Wednesday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE.  Thursday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. And THE y, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. HIS LAST LEGS. And MRS CAUDLE. On Saturday, a COMEDY. THE FALSE MR POPE. And a NEW FARCE, by J. R. Planche, Esq. THEATRE ROYAL, LYCEUM. Under the Management of Mrs Keeley. First Night of the Reproduction of Open Sesame, or a Night with the Forty Thieves.-Splendid success of Peter Jenkins. O N Monday the performances will commence with fourth time the New Farce, called PETER JENKINS. Characters by Messrs Meadows, Wigan, Turner, and Keeley Miss Dawson and Mrs Keeley. After which, THE GOVERNOR'S WIFE. Principal Characters by Messrs Diddear, Keeley, F. Mathews, F. Vining, and Collier Mrs Keeley, and Miss Dawson. To conclude with @ﬁrst time this season@@ OPEN SESAME or, a Night with the Forty  F.  her @ﬁrst appearance at this Theatre , Mrs Woolli@dge, Miss Fairbrother, Miss Grove, Mrs Wigan, Miss Turner, Miss Hicks, Miss Howard, and Mrs Keeley. THEATRE ROYAL, ADELPHI. Under the direction of Madame Celeste. O N Monday and during the week, the New Drama of CLARISSE or, the Merchant's Daughter. Principal characters by Mr Webster, Mr O. Smith, Mr Wright, Mr Paul Bedford, Mr Perkins, Mr Munyard, Mr Worrall, and Mr Cullingford Madame Celeste, and Miss Chaplin. After which, @THE BOY KING. Louis XV, Madame Celeste. With MRS CAUDLE ABROAD AND AT HOME. Mr Caudle, Mr Wilkinson Mrs Caudle, Mr Wright.t.  @c. c. without wearing the Precious Metals in the slightest degree.-This valuable chemical discovery is now generally used in the Establishments of most of the Nobility in London, the@ @CLUB HOUSES, and in the principal WEST-END HOTELS. Testimonials of its valuable properties have been received from the eminent Andrew Ure, Esq., M.D. F.R.S. @c., and from many eminent silver- smiths. Sold by  Oxford street, and at the Manu- factory, 201 Strand, in half-pint, pint, and quart bottles, at 1s.  6d., and 4s. and may be had through all Chemists, Silversmiths@ and Iron- mongers in the Kingdom. Wholesale  Co. and EDWARDS and Co. @@ and UNIQUE COLLECTION of TROPICAL FRUITS, modelled by Mons. Grimaud during his long France, is just deposited at the ROYAL POLYTECHNIC INS@@TITU- TION. The ATMOSPHERIC RAILWAY is lectured upon by Pro- fessor Bachho@ﬀner, and exhibited Daily and in the Evenings. A NEW AMERICAN INVENTION, COLEMAN'S PATEN@T LOCOMO- TIVE ENGINE, for ascending and descending inclined planes on Railways without the aid of stationary power. SWIMMING and DIVING ILLUSTRATED by the son of Capt. Stevens, the celebrated teacher of swimming, on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, at Two o'clock, and on the Evenings of Tuesdays and Thursdays, at Half- past Eight o'clock. The other Exhibitions, c. as usual.-Admission, One Shilling. Schools, Half-price. C HINESE COLLECTION, HYDE PARK CORNER. Open daily from Ten till Six, and from Seven till Ten. -This unique Collection has been honoured by the visits of Her Majesty and Prince Albert, the Queen Dowager, the Duc de Montpensier, the whole of the Nobility, the Foreign Ambassadors, the Illustrious Strangers visiting the British Court, and also by the @ﬂattering approval of all classes in England and the United States. This collection, the result of great expense, and a residence of twelve years by the proprietor in China, is amongst the most curious ever opened in London. It is a complete illustration of the manners, customs, and in many respects, of the history and religion of an immense empire, but imperfectly known to Europeans. There is an i@mmense collection of all sorts of things connected with the manufactures, the modes of living, the @costumes and domestic economy, and t@he state of the arts in China there is something to please all inquirers. -@Times. We assert it to be the @most attractive exhibition of its class which has yet appeared in London.'-Morning Post. A visit to this museum will amply reward the most sanguine expec- tation. It is an exhibition quite unique. -Morning Chronicle. A magni@ﬁcent collection of objects from China, the most ample and curious that has ever been seen in this or any other European country it is more worthy of being seen than anything of the kind that has ever been presented to our notice.@ -Morning Herald.@@@ An exhibition of extraordinary beauty and interest, admirably ar- ranged, and presents a gorgeous coup d'oeil.@ -Spectator. A Full Military Band every Evening. Great room brilliantly illumi- nated. Admission, One Shilling.  Marylebone, John Eastabrooke Holdsworth, Esq., barrister-at-law, of the Hon. Society of the Inner Temple, to Emma Hill, eldest daughter of Thomas Harrison, Esq., Commissioner of Excise, Alpha place, Regent's park. DEATHS. On the 2nd inst., at Cheltenham, in his 84th year, Pryse Lock- hart Gordon, Esq. On the 4th ult., at Staten Island, New York, deeply lamented, Mary, the beloved wife of Mr J. P. Kellett, late of Dean street, Soho, London. On the 23rd ult., in the parish of Kiltearn, @Ross-shire, an aged Highlander, named Donald Ross, who had attained the vast age of 115 years. Among the memorabilia of Donald's life was his being sent as r special messenger with a letter from Lochbroom to Ding-@ @wall at the time of the rebellion in 1745. The old man retained p@ossession of all his faculties, and enjoyed uninterrupted good health till within a few days of his death.  The wonderful Dress Mart of MOSES and SON, Whose vast speculations can ne'er be out-done, Whose mighty extent is the wonder of all, The rich and the poor, and the great and the small, COME A SEE. The beautiful dresses at this famous Mart, Those dresses whose style is remarkably smart, Whose cloth and whose workmanship challenge a test, Those dresses which all have pronounc'd as the best,  What choice adaption and taste are reveal'd In MOSES and SON'S famous Coats for the @ﬁeld You'll @ﬁnd that these garments are suited for sport, While for ev'ry-day use they are suitably wrought.  The juvenile dresses which MOSES can sell, The neat braided Tunics, and others as well When you look at these garments you'd freely admit That they're equally faultless in make and in @ﬁt.  Whatever is sold by E. MOSES and SON, And pass your opinion, as thousands have done Whatever you are, or wherever you be, We challenge inspection, and say,  The New Work, entitled@ THE MONARCH MART, with full directions for Self-Measurement, may now be had on application, or for- warded post-free. IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT! The Public are specially informed that during the re-erection of E. MOSES and SON'S Premises in Aldgate, the entrance to their Establish- ment is only at 154 Minories.  beg to inform the Nobility and Gentry, as well as their Friends and the Public, that they have removed their business to their long-established Warehouse, No. 4 REGENT STREET, Water- loo place, opposite Howell and James's, and to 98 Hatton garden, Hol- born, where they trust that patronage will be continued which they have enjoyed for upwards of a century. A considerable portion of their large stock of Brussels, Kidderminster, and other carpeting to be sold at a great reduction. In addition to carpeting, they have at their West-end establishment a large stock of chintzes, damasks, tabourets, @@c. c. well worthy of attention. The extensive Warehouse of Carpenters' Hall, with a capital Dwelling-house, to be let, with immediate possession. For par- ticulars apply to Mr Jones, House Agent, 139 A Cheapside. @@F RANKS' SPECIFIC SOLUTION of CO@PA@IB@A. The e@@ﬃcacy of this invaluable Medicine is attested by Testimonial From JOSEPH HENRY GREEN, Esq. F.R.S. one of the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons Surgeon to St Thomas's Hospital, and Professor of Surgery in King's College, London. I have made trial of Mr Franks' Solution of Copaiba, at St Thomas's Hospital, in a variety of cases, and the results warrant my stating that it is an e@@ﬃcacious remedy, and one which does not produce the usual un- pleasant e@ﬀects of Copaiba.p HENRY GREEN. 45 coln's-inn @ﬁelds, April 15, 1835. @@Prepa only by George Franks, Surgeon, 90 Blackfriars road, Lon- don, where it may be had in bottles at 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., and 11s. each and of all respectable Druggists and Patent Medicine Venders in the United Kingdom.  Blackfriars road, is en- graved on the Government Stamp, it cannot be genuine. Mr Franks may be consulted daily until Two o'clock. LOSS OF TEETH SUPPLIED WITHOUT SPRINGS, CLASP , OR WIRES, LOOSE TEETH FASTENED, AND FILLING DECAYED TEETH WITH MINERAL MARMORATUM. M ONS. LE DRAY and SON, SURGEON@@@-@ DENTISTS, 42 BERNERS STREET, OXFORD STREET, continue to restore decayed Teeth with their celebrated Mineral Mar- moratum, so universally recommended by the Faculty of England, France, and throughout the Continent, which substance they are the sole inventors and possessors of. The operation is performed without the least pain it is placed into the cavity in an almost liquid state, and in a few seconds hardens into enamel, preventing and curing the Tooth-ache, arresting all further progress of decay, allaying in one minute the most excruciating pain, and rendering the operation of extraction unnecessary. They also fasten loose @Teeth, particularly of aged persons, whether arising from neglect, the use of calomel, disease of the gums, or any other cause. LOSS OF TEETH. Mons. LE DRAY continues to SUPPLY THE LOSS OF TEETH, from one to a complete set, without springs or wires, upon his new system of SELF-ADHESION, which has procured him such universal approbation, and is recommended by numerous physicians and surgeons as being the most ingenious system of supplying arti@ﬁcial teeth hitherto invented. They adapt themselves over the most tender gums or remain- ing stumps without causing the least pain, rendering the operation of extracting quite unnecessary. They are so @ﬁxed as to fasten any loose teeth where the gums have shrunk, from the use of calomel or other causes. He also begs to invite those not liking to undergo any painful operation, as practised by most members of the profession, to inspect his painless yet e@ﬀective system and in order that his improvements may be within the reach of the most economical, he will continue the same mo- derate charges. There is no disease, to which the mouth is liable, more destructive than Scurvy in the Gums, the loss of teeth is more to be attributed to it than any other cause, for it is the primary source of decay in them. On its @ﬁrst appearance the Gums bleed on the most tri@ﬂing occasion, become spongy and lose that @ﬁrm texture they have in a healthy state, causing the breath to be o@ﬀensive and repulsive to every one under its in@ﬂuence, besides other evils repugnant to a sensitive and re@ﬁned mind. It must be a source of extreme grati@ﬁcation to those thus a@@ﬄicted to be assured that Mons. LE DRAY can e@ﬀectually remove this destructive complaint by a single application, and without the least pain. Arti@ﬁcial Teeth out of repair, re-modelled to @ﬁt the mouth, and re- stored, equal in beauty and durability to their original state. At home every day from Ten till Six. Mons. Le Dray and Son's ' Treatise on the Diseases of the Teeth and Gums' may be had, gratis, on application at t@heir residence, 42 Berners street, Oxford street.   the Fourteenth Edition, price 2s. 6d. free by post, 3s @6d T @HE SILENT FRIEND a Medical Work onon PHYSICAL DECAY, NERVOUS DEBILITY, CONSTITU- TIONAL WEAKNESS, c. With Observations on Marriage, c. By R. and L.PERRY and Co. Surgeons, London.-Published by the Authors, and sold at their residence also by Strange, 21 Paternoster row Han- nay and Co. 63 Oxford street Noble, 109 Chancery lane Gordon, 146 Leaden@hall street Purkess, Compton street, Soho, London. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. This work should be read by all who value health and wish to enjoy life, for the truisms therein contained defy all doubt. -Farmers' Journal. The CORDIAL BALM of SYRIACUM is a stimulant and renovator in all Spasmodic complaints. Nervous Debility, Indigestion, Asthma, and Consumption, are gradually and imperceptibly removed by its use, and the whole system restored to a healthy state of organization. Sold in bottles, price 11s. and 33s. PERRYS PURIFYING SPECIFIC PILLS have long been used as the most certain remedy for Scorbutic Complaints of every description, Eruptions of the Skin, Pimples on the Face, and other disagreeable a@ﬀec- tions, the result of an impure state of the blood. These Pills are perfectly free from mercury, capaiva, and other deleterious drugs, and may be taken with safety without interference with or loss of time from business, and can be relied upon in every instance. Sold in boxes at 2s. 9d., 4s. @6d. and 11s. by all Medicine Venders. Messrs Perry and Co. may be consulted at their residence, 19 Berners street, Oxford street, daily, from eleven till two, and @ﬁve till eight. On Sundays from ten till twelve.  IMPORTANT.-Any article purchased or ordered, if not approved of, exchanged or the money returned. OBSERVE.-E. MOSES and SON, Tailors, Wholesale and Retail Drapers, Out@ﬁtters, and General Warehousemen. CAUTION.-E. Moses and Son are obliged to guard the public against imposition, having learned that the untradesmanlike falsehood of being connected with them, or it is the same concern, has been resorted to in many instances, and for obvious reasons. They have no connexion with any other house, in or out of London, and those who desire genuine cheap clothing should to prevent disappointment, c. call at or send to 154 MINORIES or 86 ALDGATE, opposite the church. No business transacted at this Establishment from Friday at sun- set until sunset on Saturday, when it is resumed until Twelve o'clock. Several Salesmen Wanted.-Apply, personally, on Tuesday and W@ed- nesday next, between the hours of nine and eleven. Several Young Men wanted  price 3s. and sent free, on receiving a Post-o@@ﬃce Order, for 3s. @6d. M@ ANHOOD the CAUSES of its PREMATURE@@@@@ DECLINE, with Plain Directions for its PERFECT RE- STORATION followed by Observations on Marriage, and the Treat- ment of Mental and Nervous Debility, Incapacity, Warm Climate, and Cure of the Class of Diseases resulting therefrom. Illustrated with Cases, c. By J. L. CURTIS and Co. Consulting Surgeons, London. TWENTIETH EDITION. Published by the Authors and sold by Burgess, Medical Bookseller, 28 Coventry street, Haymarket Mann, 39 Cornhill Strange, 21 Pater- noster row and Barth, Bridges street, Strand, London Mr Smith, Inde- pendent O@@ﬃce, Cambridge Lovejoy, Librarian, Reading Guest, Steel- house lane, Birmingham Sowler, 4 St Ann's square, Manchester Philip, South Castle street, Liverpool J. Claney, Bookseller, No. @6 Bedford row, Dublin Drummond, 5 Blair street, Edinburgh Paton and Love, 7 Nelson street, Glasgow Mr Cooke, Chronicle O@@ﬃce, Oxford and to be had of all Booksellers. CAUTION. In consequence of the numerous complaints made to the Authors by patients who have been induced to purchase spurious copies of this work, advertised by illiterate and designing parties, under titles approximating as closely as possible to the word MANHOOD, the following decla- ration is added to this advertisement, with a view that the public may not b@e imposed on in their selection. DECLARATION. I, William Whinrey Gearing, of Smart's buildings, Holborn, in the County of Middlesex, Printer, do solemnly declare that I have printed Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Copies of Messrs Curtis and Com- pany's Medical Work, MANHOOD, exclusive of the Twentieth Edition now printing by me, and that the whole of these copies were duly deli- vered to Mr William Wilton, Bookbinder, residing at No. 6 Bream's buildings, Chancery lane, from the month of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty, to February, one thousand eight hundred and forty- four and I make this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true. WILLIAM WHINREY GEARING. Declared and subscribed at the  London, this 6th day of April,@ Mayor of London. Messrs Curtis's work, called '@Manhood,' is one of the few books now coming before the public on such a subject which can lay claim to the character of being strictly professional, at the same time that it is full@y intelligible to all who read it. The moral and medical precepts given in it render it invaluable. -Magnet. Messrs Curtis and Co. are to be consulted daily at their residences, 7 Frith street, Soho square, London. Country Patients are requested to be as minute as possible in the 
 to@ the Armistice in question, I have his Excellen-  co@m@mand to acquaint you, that although he must de-@ cline the conclusion of a formal Armistice@, yet @he engages his word of honour, that he will not recommence hostile operations against the Swedish army, before the expira- tion of 14 days after the Swedish army shall have taken up the position stipulated in the above Convention, in hopes that no operations will be commenced on your part within the said time.-@I have the honour,@@ c. @Brahesta, 8-20th Nov.  Stockholm, Dec. 6. @@SPAIN@. FROM THE PATRIOTIC PAPERS.  Don Francisco Xavier @de Castanos, under date of the 2@6th inst. from Cata-@ lay@ud, makes the following Report@@@@@@ - On the 21st he@ received intelligence @of @the enemy having advancing by Co@ma, with 12,000 infantry, and 4000 horse. He gave orders for the army to @fall back the same night to a position extending from Tarragona to Tu- dela, the last point to be occupied by the army of Arra- gn, and the @ﬁfth division of the centre, which was in Caparossa. Notwithstanding this movement, the army continued to retreat, in the darkness of the night, with considerable trouble, and the division reached their re- spective points, by marching tha@t night and the following day, for some detention arose from the removal of the ar- tillery from Cintruenigo, and on the 22d the four divisio@ns of the army w@ere in the position which they had to@  having sustained any loss@@. On the 23d the ad- vanced parties reported@ that three columns of the enemy were marching in the direction of Tudela@@ the generale @was beaten, and while troops of dragoons were passing the bridge, the enemy occupied the points of attack, which began at eight o'clock in the morning at ten o'clock the whole line was engaged. Our troops maintained their position with the utmost valour, and the enemy was re- pulsed on all sides. He renewed the attack, and rendered himself master of an olive grove on the left, whence he de- scended with a tremendous @ﬁre, but was so well received by our gallant troops that after a most obstinate con@ﬂict @he was compelled to retreat. While our troops were pur- suing the defeated e@nemy on o@ur left, another division of t@he enemy penetrated through Tudela on the right, and took our pursuing troops in the rear this decided the fate of the day, and nothing was left for our army but to re-@@@@ treat to Borja. W@hile this @was going forward in Tudela@, the fourth division, commanded @by  was in Cascante, two hours @march from the ﬁeld of battle, which had received orders to attack the right @ﬂank of the enemy, found 3000 French infantry and 1000 cavalry op- posed to them, in the act of o@ﬀering battle Lape@na  engaged, defeated, and pursued them to the heights of Tudela, whence he was attacked by the enemy's@ troops, who occupied the heights. @Lapena retreated to the position of Cascante, where he defeated the enemy,@ and at the fall of night, began to@ fall back to Borja, ac- cording t@o the last order he received. O@n his retreat he was again attacked by the enemy, but our troops checke@d his progress, and the four divisions reached Borja, whence they marched to Catalayud. The forces of the ene@my in these actions of Tudela and Cascante, amounted to from 36 to 40,000, and from 6 to 7000 cavalry. Their @loss has been very considerable, as has been ours is missing and prisoners. In @a letter of the 27@th, Gen. Casta@nos sends advice, that not having in Catalayud the @means of subsiste@nce, and having received notice, that the enemy threatened to at- tack Samosierra, for these reasons, and wishing to be near the capital in case the French should endeavour to advance to it, he had determined to go to Seguenza. The Major General, Don @Benito St. Juan, posted in the Puertoto post of Samosierra , sends advice in a letter of the 28t@h of @@mont@h, that at break of day that morning @the division of troops un@der@ his command were alarmed, and immediately @under arms, expecting to be attacked in force by th@e ene- my, as all the advices received during the night  in st@ating@, that on the morning on the preceding day great numbers of t@he enemy's troops had de@ﬁled by Aa@nda de Duero, directing their @march to the  ciguillas and La Orange, with @@many pieces of artillery and other ordinary stores. Accordingly, a little after si@x in the morning, @were heard in t@he heights of Samosierra, various discharges @of artillery and @small arms@ continually increasing, and were in the direction of the pass of Sepul- veda, which left no doubt that an attack would be made, and though he could conde in the resistance of the brave garrison, which had been reinforced the day before th@e  1000 fusileers of the regiment of Jau, the num- bers of the enemy could not but excite solicitude, and fro@m the moment ofthe attack@ proper measures were taken to send succors of infantry, artillery, and ammunition but with-out the assistance of these he e@ﬀected the complete defence of this point, not with standing the attack lasted more than four hours the e@nemy having attacked with 4000 infantry, 1@@600 cavalry, and four pieces of cannon, besides the re- inforcements which were at hand to support their troops. Brigadier @Dun Juan@ Josef Sarden, Colonel of the re- giment of Cavalry of Mantua, who commanded at the post of Sepulveda, writes that he was attacked, at@@ break of day, by the enemy, with from 1500 to 4000 infantry, 1500 cavalry, and four pieces of artillery, and that he had repulsed t@hem with glory to the arms of the king and country. He proposes soon to send the circumstantial de- tails of the action, in which he says, we have su@ﬀered @some loss, but he supposes that of the enemy must have been do@uble, the @ﬁring having continued till @ten @@@ 20.-According to @the last @advices@ from Persia, the Court still continued at Sul- tania, where it was encamped in tents. The French Ambassader, Gen. Garda@nne, is treated by the Em- peror wit@h the highest distinction, and accompanies him in all his hunting@ parties@. All the eﬀorts of the E@nglish to recover their in@ﬂuence over this Sovereign have  THE AMERICAN  8.@-This day@ the following @Message, with @@the several documents accompanying it, was presented to both Houses  @a source, fellow-citi@zens, of much grati@ﬁcation, if  from Europe had enabled me to inform you, that the Belligerent Na- tions, whose   right has been so de- structive to our commerce, had become awakened to the d@uty a@nd the p@olicy of revoking their unrighteous edicts. That no@ @mea@ns might be omitted to produce this salutary e@ﬀe@ct,@ I lost no time in availing myself of the Act autho- @rising a suspension, in @whole, or i@n part, of the several Embargo@ Laws. Our Ministers at London and Paris were instructe@d to explain to the respective Governments there, our disposition to exercise the authority in such manner as would withdraw t@he pretext on which the al- gressions were originally founded@, and open the way for a renewal of that commercial intercourse, which it was alleged o@n all sides had been reluctantly obstructed. As each of these Governments had pledged its readiness to concur in renouncing a measure, which reached its adver- saty through the  rig@hts of neutrals o@nly, a
 of  of the matter. In giving some insight  feeling up@@on this subject, I may  and provision laws, and all other monopolies. The following are among the noblemen  already become members of the general committes -The Earl of   making to procure a REPEAL of  That this meeting do new  with power to add to its  in order to promote free trade by the  Hotel d'Oriente by some persons to M.  gave up the Captain‐Generalship to General  23d ult., after @returning from conducting the REGENT to Villafranca. Our Paris express, with the journals of Friday, have reached us. Yet one more example of the good faith of these journals. No@story made a greater impression on the Bourse and on the public mind, disposing it to acquit the French Consul at Barcelona of all complicity with the revolt, than the announcement by telegraph that the English Consul had joined in giving M. LESSEPS a dinner. This lie, for it was no other, was contradicted by every Barcelona correspondence which reached Paris on Thursday. Yet not one of the French journals tak@e the trouble to contradict or correct the falsehood. M. CARSY, ex‐president of the revolutionary Junta of Barcelona, has addressed a letter to the Marseilles Semaphore, in which he denies having ever been a paymaster of a Corps Franc. As we sceused him, on the credit of a Barcelona letter, of having @ﬁlled this o@@ﬃce during the war, when four millions of reals were embezzled, we give at length M. CARSY'S, contradiction - I am accused of being possessed of 100,000 francs rentes, the produce of a double robbery. The @ﬁrst committed as paymaster of a corps the second, as President of the Junta. I neverwas the pay- master of a corps. As to the Junta, it never re- ceived more than about 280,000 francs from the funds of the Provincial Deputation a sum small in proportion to the necessities of a great city, especially at such a moment, when excesses, pro- ceeding from the destitution of the poor, were to be prevented. The Junta paid twenty@‐ﬁve sous a day to its National Guards, and to many o@@ﬃcers of the army. Where, then, is the robbery ? We will give M. CARSY full credit for his denial of having ever been paymaster of a corps. With respect to the funds taken from the treasury in Barcelona, the Spanish authorities will themselves reply. A close inquiry has been made into all facts, and they will come forth in the debates of the Cortes. M. CABSY gives another account of the rescue of the thirty prisoners. All the o@@ﬃcial defences of M. @LESSEPS confess that these prisoner, were taken from a French boat belonging to the Meleagre, and under the French @ﬂag. It was the duty of M. LESSERPS to claim and see them liberated. The following is the way in which M. CARSY tells us they were liberated - Let the English press know, writes the ex- president of the Junta, CARSY, that these persons were taken out of our hands by a @charitable sub- terfuge of the Consul. The representative of France presented himself before the Junta, and asked would I oppose the going away of a @French family, to which he had given passports. It was the @ﬁrst visit I received from him. I did not hesitate to satisfy him and the family in question were about to embark, when I learned that they were the Ladies Van HALEN, with General CHACON. I would not go back from my word. The Consul, in his humanity, thus deprived us of pre- cious political hostages, the keeping of whom might have prevented the bombardment. This account is totally di@ﬀerent from the o@@ﬃcial account given by M. LESS@EPS himself to the French Government, and published by it in an English Tory paper. M. @LESSEPS says, that on learning that a group of women and children belonging to the families of the Captain General and General ZA@BALA had been carried o@ﬀ by the militia at the moment they were about to embark on board the Meleagre. This account blinks the material point, admitted by the Débats, and averred by Ge- nerals Van HALEN  that they were taken out of @a boat under the French @ﬂag, a boat belonging to the French vessel of war. M. LESS@EPS  he @ﬂew to the President of the Junta, and energetically insisted that the persons should be given up. M. CARSY'S account is very di@ﬀerent and either he or M. LESSEPS make a statement completely false. Indeed it is very remarkable how none of these people tell the same story. General PASTOR relates the surrender of the Atarazanas in a way utterly contradictory of M. LESSEPS whilst M. CARSY tells the story of the embarkation of the ladies altogether di@ﬀerent also from the narrative of the French Consul. Wherever we are to look to for truth, we certainly cannot expect it from that side, of which the very actors and partizan, so egre-griously contradict each other.  1.-The Oriental and Peninsular Company's  the Oriental, sailed from this port at eight o'clock this morning, with sixty@‐ﬁve ﬁrst class p@assengers and will call at Falmouth for the Malta and‐Woman's Love, Black Whisker, and Billy Taylor. @@@@☞ The publication of The Morning Chronicle @ﬁnished on Saturday morning at Eight  here this @morning@. She sailed from  the @22d of December,  26th,@@ Oporto 27th, and Vigo 28th. At Lisbon she took hi a full car@go of fruit, and at Vigo twelve oxen. The Montrose brin@gs home twelve passengers. Sailed yesterday, the steam‐p@acket Iberia, for Gibraltar, Lisbon, @@c. a Mail Packet Company's@ team‐ship, the Trident, arrived this morni@ng from London, and will sail from this port to‐morrow, calling at Falmouth,@ to take the  The Trident carries out 400 bottles and thirty‐seven passengers. The next West India mail due, is the Thames, and she is expected to  EDITION.@ THE MOR@@NING CHRONICLE. LON@DON MO@NDA@Y, JANUARY 2, 1843. .-On Friday a very dreadf@ul accident occurred@ at the @malthouse at Upten,  Jennings, the brewers, of Windsor, by which one unfortunate man w@as killed on the spot, and two others much injured. The malthouse consists of three stories, the two lower of which are the working @ﬂoors, and @be upper was used for storing  of which was place@d there.  work in the house, and happening to  of the upper @ﬂoor slightly  the malt from that part@ to the of the @ﬂooring, which thus became asioned the subsequent accident. They perceived some barley trickling down from the   story@ beneath, on which one of them re- turned to the room to stop up the hole or crevice, when the whole of the ﬂooring of that story fell into the room@@  which was also broken away, and the whole fell  carrying the @men with them in  was speedily procured, and  as soon as possible, when it  named Robinson, was killed on the been dreadfully fractured on the head.  maltster, was found to have  evidently feel the di@@ﬃculty in which they are placed by that clause of the ASHBURTON capitulation to which we called at@tention on Thurs- day @@and their a@ﬀectation of making light of it only betrays the more glaringly their sense of uneasiness. Lord ABERDEEN may rely upon it that it will re- quire something more than the con@ﬁdent assevera- tions of his newspapers to convince the public that this treaty has not, instead of consolidating peace between England and America, thrown new and serious obstacles in the way of its being maintained. Look, for example at this subject of the right of visit. The Government organ tells us that last year this question threatened to embroil us with the United States. And no doubt it did. It is impossible to read the correspondence that took place @between the representative@ of the two Go- vernments without being convinced that an early@, clear, and de@ﬁnite adjustment of the question was essential to a good understanding between the two countries. It was one of the questions, the settle- ment of which was looked for as amongst the happiest results of Lord  Next to the boundary question, it was the one most likely to involve the two countries in a misunder- standing. Now, in what state did Lord  this question ? and in what state did he leave it ? England claimed as she still claims , a right to ascertain by visit the real nationality of merchant@@ vessels met with on the high seas. The exercise of such a right the American Government said was  in maritime law, and towards vessels of their nation should not be put in force. The exercise of such a right, replied Lord ABE been the invariable practice of the British @navy. So it s@hall continue, and in conformity with it orders to put it in force are issued from  allude to the existence of the letter of General PASTOR, which @ﬁlled three columns of the Madrid papers, and which proved the full participation of the French Consul, M. LESSEPS, in the surrender of the Atarazanas. Though pass- ing altogether in silence a document so interesting@, the Débats answers an accusation which it attributes to us, and which we did not make. It triumphantly states that the Spanish Consul at Bayonne has been removed for giving Colonel PRIM a passport. We did not complain of the French authorities of Bayonne. We complained of those of Perpignan, who arrested Colonel PRIM, as bearer of a false passport, but who instantly set him free, when he confessed, that as an enemy of the Spanish Regent and Govern- ment, he had been obliged to take a passport under a false name. We have related Colonel PRIM'S e@ﬀorts, to get to Barcelona, and his success in getting to Figueras too late for serious mischief, though not too late to cause a little insurrection, and to force the chief inhabitants of that town to go now into exile. @Since that time the French telegraph an- nounced that TERRADAS kept up his band in the Lampourdan, and that Colonel PRIM had gone to raise@ the Campo di Tarragona. On the contrary, TERRADAS has been driven out of the Lampourdan into Prance and Colonel PRIM, instead of going to Tarragona, has also taken refuge with his French friends in Perpignan. Our letter@ state, that the number of Spanish refugees on the frontier are great that they are not merely the refugees of the late insurrection, but old Carlist partizans, who had been summoned, and who had come from distant depôts. This menacing state of things on the fron- tier, which the French Home‐o@@ﬃce and its police purposely keep up, obliges the R@EGENT, at this moment, to keep 50,000 men in Catalonia, and to be himself continually on the watch@@. In Barcelona itself every means are tried to keep up the spirit of revolt. The Carlc‐Jovellanist Club has in@ﬂuence enough to prevent the re‐opening of the manufactories. The Constitutionnel of the @22d ult. exclaims, on learning the promotion of  o@@ﬃcer of the Legion of Honour - What a scandal ! We have proved be- yond the possibility of contradiction the con- nivance of M. LESSEPS with the insurgents.  rewards this connivance, and therefore approves of it. How disgraceful and ignominious must the reward be, that has been gained by the provocation of disorders, and the@@ spilling of the blood of both soldiers and patriots ! The Constitutionnel adds- That it knows posi- tively, that several Frenchmen @ﬁred on the QUEEN'S troops, and@ that it could name one who boasted of having killed an o@@ﬃcer. The o@@ﬃcers of the citadel of Montjuich have de- clared, that before and during the bombardment there were no  @oﬃcers nor Congreve rockets in @the fortress thus contradicting the stupid calumnies of the Afrancesados. We have received a printed letter from  a Second Letter from Lord NUGENT to the Rev.  on the Condition of the Agri- cultural Labourers. It is eminently@ deserving of the attention of the landowner, of England. His lordship declined in his former letter to specify misconduct towards the poor in particular parishes@ but on the present occasion he has deemed it ad- visable to give instances - Som@e wretched men, he says, @@@I fell in with a few days ago. I questioned them. I heard their statement. I inquired into its truth. It has been con@ﬁrmed to me. They were from the parish of Waddesden. In a note it is stated This parish belongs to the Duke of MARLBOROUGH, a non‐resident landlord.@@ In that parish a great portion of the labouring poor are without employ, und therefore without means of sub- sistence. Those who are employed according to the iniqui- tous and ruinous system of @wages apportioned to the extent of families, and receive for work, @under the name of wages, eight shillings a week to men with families,  the latter allowance being less than one‐half of what I have shown to be neces- sary for proper subsistence. Here let us pause. What is the use of the Somer- set‐house commissioners and assistant‐commis- sioners, @@c., if the allowance syste@m exists in as great vigour as ever ? Eight shillings for a man with a family, and four shillings to single men ! The principle of the new Poor‐law was the separa- tion of independent labour from pauperism. No distinction was to be any l@onger recognised between labourers with families and single men. If the single man perfor@ms the same labour as a man with a family, his wages ought to be the same. But in the agricultural districts we @ﬁnd part of the family of the married man maintained by the single man.@ The New Poor‐law has broken down. I have lately, continues his lordship, returned from passing a fortnight in L@eice@ster@shire. I found the general rate of agricultural wages there to be 12s. a week in many instances 13s. in some higher varying according to the quality of the labour. And there coals, a large and most necessary item in the expenses of life, are sold at the rate of 12s. the ton at the labourer's door. Here the labourer cannot buy them at a less rate than 20s. at the wharf, or in his own village, at the retail dealer's, at a less rate than from 27s. to 30s. the ton. If wages follow the prices of necessaries, how hap- pens it that in those counties of England where neces- saries are dearest, wages are lowest ? We also insert a letter we have received from a reporter of the Anti‐Corn‐law League, on the con- dition of the labourers on the estate of Mr. BANKES -that gentleman who, at the Blandford dinner, was so tremblingly alive to the welfare of the labourers. The description of the misery of the poor creature, is quite heart‐rending. What asto- nishes us, is, that in districts where such wretched- ness prevails among the labourers, landowners should dare to open their mouths on such a subject- When wages, says this reporter to the League@@@, were higher last year by one or two shilling@ a week than this year, your labourers in their miserable hovels, which have neither ' tight roofs' nor ' ti@ght doors,' nor tig@@ht anything, but tight rents and pinching h@unger to  them, in those hovels your labourers were without @ﬁres, save when cooking their scanty meals and t@his year, when coals are still as dear, yon talk of the warm hearths of the labourer, and hi@s cheerful society, as things to be preserved by keeping o@ﬀ the 'evil day.' . . . I have seen your labouring people in full@ employment without a change of clothes. I have seen the merest rem- nants of blanket rags to cover a family of six children with their hard‐working father and mother. I have seen hard working m@en on your property who declared to me they did not taste b@utcher's meat for six months that potatoes and lard, the latter in small quantity, and greens, and rtold me that during the recent years of high‐priced provisions they had not been able to buy, save  low their wages. This is really a frightful state of things. But poor and trampled on as the agricultural labourers of England are, and low as the landowners deem of them, to judge from the disgusting @ﬂum- mery spoken at them, we conceive there is more danger in that quarter than the lords of the soil are aware of. Protection is as good an argument in the mouth of the labourer as in that of the land- owner. The Tory landlords are bringing an old house about their ears. What Lord NUGENT says on this point will be said by others - If, says his lordship, the occupier of land claim, as a right, protection for the value of hi@s produce-if the la@nd- lord claim as a right protec@tion for the value of his land, the value of which must be measured by the value of his produce, the labourer has an equal right, he has a much higher right, to protection for the value of his produce, his labour, because he has no capital to stand out for price during its @ﬂuctuations. He is day by d@ay de- pendent on markets, which, under the present vicious system, destroy him, impoverish the farmer, and against which only the command of capital can enable any man whose fortunes depend on the value of agricultural produce to wait upon the @ﬂuctuations of what seasons may a@ﬀect, but law has rendered ruinously precarious. If then he who rents land, or he who lets it, claim protective laws for his produce, but at the same ti@me claim that labour, which gives value to his property, shall remain unprotected, and dependent on his demand for it, this is to require, under the name and sanction of law, t@he power of committing open and unmitigated robbery-a power to demand a protected and arbitrary price, subject only to his own wants for that labour by which those prov@isions are produced. @@The advocates of protection leave out the la- bourer, but they are putting a frightful weapon into his hands. The Scripture says, accursed is he who deals with two measures. Lord NUGENT says that even at the present price of provisions, @no single man in his neighbourhood can main- tain himself in health and strength upon less than 8s. 3½d. weekly and no married man, with an average family of three children and their mother, upon less than 14s. 6d½. a week, ex- clusive of harvest wages. The argument for protec- tion embraces all these people and the conclusion will be drawn from the premises. They who take upon them the management of others, incur a fearful responsibility. Free trade is one thing, and protec- tion is another but when protection extends to all, it is very di@ﬀerent from protection to a privileged class. We warn the landowners, that the advocates of pro- tection are raising questions pregnant with fearful  we have always protested against the in- justice to the people of England of the system by which the price of colonial produce is so much en- hanced, we have, at the same time, contended that Government ought, in fairness to the owners of estates in our colonies, to give them every facility for obtaining the labour by which alone they can compete advantageously with the owners of slaves. @We hear great complaints of Lord STANLEY by those who are interested in the prosperity of the West Indies. The planters say that be has not done his duty to them-that he has not applied himself as he ought to the giving e@ﬀect to the recommendations of Parliamentary committees, by taking the necessary steps for facilitating the immigration into our colo- nies of labourers from Africa. The select committee on West India colonies sub- mitted to the House of Commons on the 25th of July, certain resolutions containing suggestions, the result of evidence taken before it these resolutions sho@w that the act of emancipating the slaves has been productive of the greatest advantage to the negro population that their character and condition have been greatly improved that many of the former slaves have been enabled to purchase land, and to acquire wealth without labouring more than three or four days in a week, and from @ﬁve to seven ho@urs in a day. The committee report that simultaneously with this amendment in the condition of the negroes there occurred a very great diminution in the staple productions of the West Indies to such an extent as to have caused serious, and, in some cases, ruinous injury to the proprie- tors of estates. The distress in Jamaica, British Guiana, and Trinidad has been so great, as to have caused many estates, hitherto pros- perous and productive, to @be cultivated for the last two or three years at a considerable loss, and others to be abandoned-that the causes of this diminished production and consequent loss, are the great di@ﬃ- culty which has been experienced by the planters in obtaining steady and continuous labour, and the high rate of remuneration which they give for such broken and indi@ﬀerent as work they are able to procure. The remedies proposed by the committee to check the increasing depreciation of West India property are set forth in the 11th, 12th, and 13th, re- solutions which accompany its report. 11th. That one obvious and most desirable @mode of endeavouring to compensate for this diminished supply of labour, is to promote the immigration of a fresh labour- ing population, to such an extent as to create competition for employment. @12th. That, for the batter attainment of that object, as well as to secure the full rights and comforts of the immi- grants as freemen, it is desirable that such immigration should be conducted under the authority, inspection, and control of responsible public o@@ﬃcers. 13th. Thatit is also@@ serious question whether it is not required by a due regard to the just rights and interests of the West India proprietors, and the ultimate welfare of the negroes themselves, more especially i@n consideration of the large addition to the labouring population, which it is hoped may soon lie e@ﬀected by immigration, that the laws which regulate the relations @between employers and la- bourers in the di@@ﬀerent colonies should undergo early and careful revision by their re@spective legislature@. The select committee on the west coast of Africa, in its report dated the 5th of August, has the follow- ing remarkable passage@ - We need hardly add more to prove that it would be well for the African In every point of view, to @ﬁnd himself a free labourer in the free British West India Colonies, enjoying, then, as he would, higher advantages of every kind, than have fallen to the lot of the negro race in any ether portion of the globe. Again, the committee states- Your committee cannot but strongly urge upon Parlia- ment not only not to prohibit the emigration of free blacks from our. African settlements to our West India colonies, but to encourage and promote it by the authority of Govern- ment, under the sanction and regulations above suggested, or such other as further consideration may supply. Here we @ﬁnd two committees of the House of Commons, in the months of July and August, re- commending immigration as a means of improving the African, and of preventing further depreciation of West India property. It will hardly be credited that, notwithstanding the pressing necessity ofo me to add, that he cannot undertake to arrange for the esta- sh@ment of a vessel to run to  condition, he will take t@he earliest opportunity of bringing the plan into ope- ration. On the 17th of December the merchants inte- rested in British Guiana gave the required guarantee for that colony, which guarantee was stated to be satisfactory, and that immediate measures would be taken to send a vessel to Sierra Leone. It it be- lieved that the merchants interested in Jamaica an@d Trinidad are prepared to give similar guarantees. Here, then, we @ﬁnd in the month of August, two committees of the House of Commons recommend- ing immigration as @a means of saving West India property from further depreciation and in the month of October a meeting of West India merchants, pressing on her MAJESTY'S Government the ne- cessity of adopting the suggestion@ of the com- mittees to avert the threatened ruin of the West India colonies@ subsequently furnishing the Colo- nial Minister with a detailed plan of immigra- tion and yet up to this day no vessel has been hired for the purpose of carrying African labourers to the West Indies. It will be hardly credited that the minister who introduced the great @measure of emancipation, and conducted it with such ability through all its stages in the House of Com- mons, in the year 1833, is the same Minister who presides over the colonial department at present. Yet, Lord STANLEY held the seals for the colonial department in 1833, and does to now. No states- man's character is so much involved in the ultimate success of that great measure as that of  body. We also see @that means have been pointed out not only to pre- vent the further depreciation of property in the West Indies, but to improve the condition of the African. Notwithstanding all this, the noble lord at the head of the Colonial Department has not taken any e@@ﬃcient measures for the accomplish- ment of the objects so loudly called for by pressing necessity. By the adoption of wise and energetic measures for promoting immigration to the West Indian Colonies, Government wo@uld do more to put an end to the foreign slave trade, than it is possible to do by treaties, or the employment of ships of war on the coast of Africa. Has it escaped Lord STANLEY'S notice that by introducing a large in@ﬂux of labourers to the West Indian colonies, they would be enabled to compete with slave‐grown sugar in the markets of Europe, and Government would be able to do away with the present prohibitory duties on foreign sugar that our exports to the West Indies would be doubled, and the people of England would @be supplied with cheap sugar produced by the labour of freemen ? That our West Indian colo- nies are capable of supplying the home market with sugar there cannot be a doubt. With a suf- ﬁcient supply of labour, Jamaica, British Guiana, and Trinidad would produce more sugar than the present consumption of Europe amounts to, leaving out of sight Barbadoes, Antigua, and the other smaller colonies. With all these important objects before him, Lord STANLEY is allowing the recess to pass away without propounding any measures for their accomplishment.  Gazette says, this is temporary, and a trial. The Shehab family or that of the  This is natural. As he ruled th, he must still have in@ﬂuence over that tribe sub-  would heed  governors are under the nomination of the  It is remarkable that the  moment that the di@@ﬃculties about  Gazette says that the r is not opposed to the  the Danubian  to the restoration of the E yesterday, with a like fair quantity of  the T@hree per Cents.   Bank Shares have not  Cents. are ¼ high@er, an New Five per day. Spanish Active  advance@d to  ult.,@@ brought by the Montrose steamer. Nothing de@ﬁni- tive had been done respecting the tari@@ﬀ ques@tion, but it was expected to be decided in one way or the other, as far as the plenipotentiaries are concerned, in the course of a few days. The Su@ﬀren French line‐of‐battle ship, Admiral@ CAZY, commander, had arrived at Lisbon, where the French have also a corvette and a brig‐of‐war and it wassaid that two other vessels were expected and there was a report, indeed, that a French squadron under the command of an admiral was to be stationed at Lisbon for some time. The Spanish Government has @ﬁnally, it would@ appear, resolved upon claiming the delivery up  the Gloria, alias Grande Antilla, on the novel  for the purpose of being forwarded to the Celestial Em- pire, under the care of Major M@ inclosed in a very handsome silver box similar  Portuguese laws, professing to be bound on a peace- ful voyage to the coast of Africa for ivory and palm oil, but found at@ Mosa@mbique to have a crew of 70 men armed to the teeth, carrying 6 pieces of artillery, besides a long 24‐pound swivel gun, an@d having on board all the apparatus of fetters, cauldrons, and other accompa@niments of a slaver  of the yielding  an immediate supply of labour to the West India colonies, not only have no steps been taken by Lord STANLRY to carry into e@ﬀect the recommenda- tions of the two committees, but up to the 2@5th October the West Indian body were without any communication from the Colonial Minister regarding the intentions of her MAJESTY'S Government. On the 26th of Octo@ber a meeting of merchants con- nected with the @West Indies was held in the City, when a series of resolutions were passed, calling upon Government to adopt measure, to carry into e@ﬀect the recommendations and suggestions of the two committees. The sentiments of the meeting may be gathered from the 6th and 7th resolutions - 6th. That the delay of her @MAJESTY'S Government in adopting any such measures is felt with peculiar severity at this period, as it not only par@alyzes the hopes formed of relief from the accumulated distress and loss of previous years, but precludes the possibility of those interests in the colonies obtaining assistance which is indispensably necessary for t@he cultivation of estates, and threatens the destruction of that commercial support from the mother country, without which it is impossible for the trade of the colonies to be upheld. 7th. That this meeting, therefore, feels imperatively called on to impress in the most strenuous manner upon her MAJESTY'S government, the necessity of following up, with- out further delay, the suggestions contained in the reports of the two committees, by adopting an e@ﬀectual and imme- diate plan of immigration into the colonies, together with such other measures to restore commercial con@ﬁdence, as may, if possible, avert the threatened ruin of this most im- portant branch of trade to the British empire, restore the prosperity of the West India colonies, and consummate the success of the great work of emancipation. A memorial founded on these resolutions was drawn up and transmitted, together with the reso- lution@, to Lord STANLEY and the other members of the Cabinet. On the 8th of November a depu- tation of the West Indian agents and merchants waited on Lord STANLEY@@ at this interview the deputation was requested by his lordship to furnish him with a detailed statement of their views respect- ing immigration under Government superintenden@ce. On the 15th November a scheme of immigration was submitted to Lord STANLEY, and on the 13th De- cember Mr. Secretary HOPE acknowledged the re- ceipt of the document, and in his communication he stat@e @-@@ I am directed by Lord STANLEY to stats that, although he cannot entertain the application as regards the steam vessel, on account of the very heavy expense which, ac- cording to his present information, would be incurred, he is prepared to assent to the general plan for carrying on such immigration by means of vessels to be hired by Governm@ent, and having on board a Government agent, as in the case of transports it being, however, clearly understood that the entire expens@e of such vessels must be defrayed by the colonies to which they run. Although  instead of pleading the irregularity of the papers as a ground for impunity, ought to su@ﬀer so@me addi- tional penalties beyond those to which her owners would have been liable, if, instead of hoisting false colours, they had in a more open and daring way braved the risks of their piratical speculation under their own national @ﬂag. The Portuguese Government was carrying re- trenchment into all the branches of the expenditure to a greater or less extent. The QUEEN had again given up @ﬁfty contos of her income, and the  forty contos, to meet the exigencies of the Treasury. A statement had been published of the actual situ- ation of the Lisbon Fishery Company, by which it was shown that during the seven years of its exist- ence it had lost 70 per cent. of its capital, notw@ith- standing the high duties put on foreign salt @ﬁsh for its protection. The Opposition journals had spread a report that a French loan of 1,000 contos was on the ta@pis which, however, had been strongly denied by the ministerial press. The Government had concluded an arrangement with the Tobacco Contract a@nd Con@ﬁa@nça Company, by which the decima and other imposts pledged to those companies for the balances due to them on account of former advances to the Government, would be set free, the Conﬁa@nça companies receiving Treasury bills, and the Tobacco contractor, bills admissible at the Custom‐house for the tobacco duties, @@@s., for the amount of their balances. @@We have received our French express of Thursday and Friday. The papers are occupied with the @mes- sage of the President of the United States. The way in which that document speaks of the Right of Search, and of the negotiations touching it with Lord ASHBURTON, puts, every word of it, a weapon into the hands of the French opposition. The President, indeed, speaks to France on this subject, with a Go and do thou likewis@e tone of advice, and thus fully displays the spirit in which the Government of Washington negotiated with  and in which t@hat diplomatist chimed. We cannot but regret to @ﬁnd  thus throw s@erious obstacles in the way of M. GUIZOT'S keeping faith and peace with England. @@We had understood that the buccaneering conduct and arguments of General CASS in Paris had not been altogether approved of by his Government, and we will do the King of the FRENCH the justice to say that lie did not approve of them. But President TYLER now comes forth with an approval of General CASS'S conduct, and acts upon it himself, doing his utmost to incite the French to a breach of their treaties with @us. We must say, that we did not expect such a result as this as the immediate consequence of Lord  of peace out of this treaty both French and Americans derive arms for combating every e@ﬀectual mode of putting down the slave trade. We know not how far Lord  im- mortalised himself. But he certainly has done more than any man living to immortalise the slave- trade. The National of Thursday has an article on the de@ﬁcit in French @ﬁnances. It states The estimated expenses of the Budget  expenses are much greater than foreseen. What with building steamers, dota- tion to railroads, the nses, independent of the extra hurrying of the forti@ﬁcations, cannot be less than 1,400,000,000. That is, 2,000,000 sterling more than was foreseen, leaving a de@ﬁcit of 5,000,000 sterling. The National estimate, the de@ﬁcit at 4,000,000 sterling. It is little wonder with these prospects, and the necessity of disposing of another third of the 450,000,000 loan, that M.  should announce his with to resign, and withdraw from the di@@ﬃculties of the Finance Mi- nistry. The Austrian Observer corroborate, the news, that the Porte had yielded on the Syrian question to the demands of England and Austria, so far as the no@@- minatio@n of a Christian governor for the  large for the  of travellers or tr@@aﬃc at this place. The legrap@hsbetween this and  31.@-The  here this afternoon, bringing  December 22, Cadiz 23, Li Vigo 28, with the Malta @diate  has continued an attractive  to be brought out next Friday, and La  ly af@terw@ards. W@e perceive that both STA are engaged.  meeting of  of the  Bank was held in  on Thursday. Mr. Blanchard, the  tered into a long statement. It appeared  of the original capital had been lost, and that  the bank amounted to upwards of  very stormy meeting, during which seve declared they h@ad embarked the  in the company, and that they were  resolved that a call of £1 @per share, in  to the two calls of £1 each lately granted, should the purpose of me de@ﬁciency, and  company should be wound @up as soon as  distress prevails in this city and  the subject. We @ﬁnd that, besides the loss  of the bank, there will be a   are 35,000 shares 615  be requi@red to pay the de@ﬁcit.  original paid‐up capital of the bank  been added since, making £211,000. The whole of this has been lost. The  errors were committed at the very outset.  the s, paid them £6,000 for the  to the amount of £80,000, for  Bank of England notes, and on which  been a loss of about £40,000 ! We  of every kind might be  could make such a bargain in  accounts they took. There@   been a dividend declared all the  of capital. It is a painful f@eature   of the shareholders are widows and  who, tempted by the success of two  their all in this undertaking,  a  county of  on Tuesda@y, and proceed@ed to hold the body of the unfortunate Tilsley, at  Inn. A jury of  and - count , the coroner brie@ﬂy  short consultation, returned a  James Crowley and the co the necessary authority for er. The coroner also  to Sir James  Home Department, for the  operation of   the ends of justice. The  excited considerable interest  and gentry w@ere in the inq attention to the  All the approaches@ to  tragedy were lined with @parties  at the mangled remains of th@e  obtain a view of  the appalling event has thrown  an interest. Much sympathy  the wife and  of  the murderer, is 29 years  stout and 
e or no Con@ﬁdence in any of the National Troops, notwith@anding their warm A@urance of Loyalty. Fi- delity, and Aver@on to the Germans. It is every Day more and more vi@ble in Bavaria, that the People are exce@@vely diſcontented, and wait only an Opportunity of taking Arms again@ the Au@rians which ſprings chie@ﬂy from that Spirit of Loyalty, for which tne Bavarians have been always famous. Ye@erday the following Biſhops took the Oaths and their Seat @m the Houſe of Peers, viz. Dr. Thomas, Biſhop of Lincoln, Do@or Liſle Biſhop of St. Aſaph, and Do@or Trevor, Biſhop of St. Davi@s. This Day ſeveral Troopers Horſes will be embarked on board the Tranſports at Graveſend, as alſo ſeveral O@ﬀicers Horſes in order to remount the Cavalry in Flan- ders the O@ﬀicers having received Orders to repair to their reſpe@ive Corps forthwith. Private Advices from Franckfort intimate that ſome new and grand De@gn is there on the Anvil. His Im- perial Maje@y ſpeaks as if he was ſure to recover his Country, and 'tis thought he removes to Nuremberg from that Proſpe@. The King's Baggage is getting ready with all Expedi- tion, his Maje@y intending to embark for Helvoetſluys as ſoon as the Parliament riſes. The Royal Sovereign, a @ﬁr Rate, is to be @ationed in the Channel, and to have two Companies of Marines on board. Sir Charles Hardy's Squadron de@gn'd for the Mediterranean, is to con@@ of one of 100 Guns, three of 90, four of 80, one of 70, one of 60, and one of 50, be@des a Bomb Ketch, c. Six Hundred and Fi@y Soldiers have been draughted out of the Foot Guards, to be tranſported to  Lady Smithſon, Wife of Sir Hugh Smithſon, Bart. a Daughter. Marriages. Thomas Sealy, Eſq of Lincolnſhire, to Mrs. Mellar, a Widow Lady, with 20000 l. down, and will have 20000 l. more at the deceaſe of Clement Wood, Eſq of Lincoln, her Father. Spencer Lewis, of Dor- ſet, Eſq to Miſs Freeman, with 100@00 l. Promotions.@ Nath. Shirley, Inſpe@or of the Cu@oms at Hull and Scarborough. Mr. Rawlins, Comptroller of Sheerneſs. John Winne, @Eſq Deputy Treaſurer of Chelſea Hoſpital. Preferments. Dr. Taylor, of St. John's, Cambridge, Chancellor of that Dioceſs. Dr. Shippen, to the Liv- ing of Amerſham, Bucks. Zachary Brooke, M. A. Vi of Ickleton, Cambridg@eſhire. krupts. Richard Hutchings the Elder, of Crew- he, Somerſet, Yarn waſher. Sarah Bethell, of South- wark, Baker. Richard Wogan, of Deptford, Kent, Brewer. Thomas Geheem, London, Merchant. Deaths@@ Lewis Suddard, Eſq of Yorkſhire. Roger Barn@on, of Eex. E@ſq at Ghent on his  his Travels. William Wilmer, Eſq Member for North hampton. Lord Nithiſdale, a Roman Catholick, Scotch Peer that eſc@aped out of the Town in the late Reign, at Rome. Sir John Peachy, Member for Midhur@. @Taken by the Engliſh. A privateer Schooner drove aſhore by the Solebay, and, 'tis thought, ſunk under Pedro Point. Anne of 300 Tons, from Havre, by the @Jerſey. F. Nancy, from Santa Cruz, retaken by the Tuſcany, Sprackling. A French@ Bilander of 120 Tons, bound from Oporto to Havre, by the Captain, into Port@ſmouth. Black Prince, a Spaniſh Privateer, by the Fox Man of War. Three prizes on the Spaniſh Main, worth near 80000 l. by two Leeward-Iſland Privateers. Taken by the French and Spaniards. Revival, Ball, from  Carolina, o@ﬀ the Madeiras, S. Two Coa@ers o@ﬀ the Iſle of Wight, into Havre, F. John and Eliza, Furſe from Hamburgh, for Top@ſham, into Dunkirk, F. Amity, Fantine, from Faro to Cork, in- to Almeria, S. Two Sloops belonging to Providence, by a Privateer Schooner belonging to Barracoa. @Lo. The Loo Man of War, on the Rocks in the Streights of the Bahama Iſlands, together with a prize which ſhe had ju@ taken before. Crew ſaved. A Spa- niſh Privateer of Force, hear the ſame Iſlan@ds. Bank Stock 144@ 1-@half. India 172. S. Sea 105 1-4th. COUNTR@Y-N@E@W@S. Liverpool, April There is now @tting out at this Port, to ail in 30 Days, the following Ships for Priva- teers, @vi@z. Ranger, 300 Tons, 20 Carriage and 16 Swivel Guns, with 200 Seamen and 40 Landmen. The Fortune-hunter, 150 Tons, 14 Carriage and 6 Swivel Guns, with 100 Seamen and 20 Landmen. The Prizes to be divided in Shares according to cu@om. Perſons inclined to @gn the Articles may apply to Mr. Samuel Ogden, Samuel Read, or to Joſeph Mo- ne@y of this Place, and on Examination they ſhall hold any Station or Po@ thought ſuitable for them by the Proprietors. Imported at Liverpool from Marcb 29 to April 1. From Antigua 56 Bags Cotton, 395 Elephant's Teeth. 1 @@@Hhd. Rum. From N. Carolina. 670 Bar. Tar. 3200 Bar. Staves. 600 Pieces Heading. 6 Logs Walnut. 12 Doz. Hand,@@ spikes. From Ireland. 177 Tru@es, 25f Tru@es 3 Bundles Linnen Yarn. 95 Tru@es, 1 half @aſs Woollen, ditto. 8 Pieces Linnen Cloth. 1 half in @Fax. 38 Tom@ Soaper's Wa@e. 1 Parcel looſe h. Soap. Ships enter'd outis. Exchange Watſon, for Hamburg Fox, Painter, for Port Ruſh. Fanny, Middleton,  Stoc@k@holm. Proi-perous, Town@ſend Dublin Tra Hamlet George and Polly, Shaw, and Dean  Dub@@im. B@@il @14. To the Author of the  SIR, T HE Caſe of Kirby and Wade, ely pub@liſh'd in the London News Papers, brings@o my Remembrance the ignominious Puniſhmnent i@@nﬂi on Cowards and Runaways by the wiſe Republick of Sparta, ſo famous in Grecian Story and it being very a propes to the late Condu@ of certain Naval O@ﬀicers in the Mediterranean, you will oblige the Publick by inſerting the following Paragraph taken out of Plutarch's Life of Age@laus, and more particularly your con@ant Reader.@@ A. B. ' The Law in that Caſe was ſevere, for Cowards and Runaways were not only degraded from all Ho-' nours, but it was alſo a Diſgrare to intermarry with them whoever met any of then in the Streets might ' beat them if he pleaſed, nor was it lawful for them to ' reﬁ in the mean time, they were obliged to go ' abroad in a na@y Habit, with heir G@@owns patch'd of divers Colours, and to wear their Beard@s half @ſhav'd ' and half unſhaved. Plutarch's Lives, Vol. 4. Page 31. Came in @nce our le@ Prince Charles, Lang, Betty, @@-@@@from Oporto. Mary, from Lisbon. Arrived at other Ports. Union, Ca@les, from Madeira, at South Carolina. King's-we@on, at Antigua. Planter, Lavers, from South Carolina, at Cowes. Sailed nce @ur la@. Titeup, Backhouſe, and , oenix, Vye, for Ireland. Imported @nes our @@la. From Oporto. 342 Pipes, 11 @Hoſneads, 1 Quarter Cask Portugal Wine. 20 Baskets,  Che@@ Oni-ons. 220 C. Cork. 30 Bags Sumach. 20 Hams. From Dingle. 2 Hhds. Tallow, 4 Hhds. Coney Skins. For the Bene@ﬁt of Mr. MOZEEN. AT THE THEATRE in S@TO@K@E's-C@RO@FT. On Monday the 16th of AP@RIL, will be A@ed a Tragedy ca@ld, The @K. To which will be added a Dramatick Tale called, The KING and the MILLER of Mandsﬁeld. And on Friday the 20th of this In@. For the Bene@ﬁt of Mr. BAKE@R. Will be performed a CONCERT Of vocal and in@@umental M@U@S@I@C@K. Between the A@s will be performed a Comedy ca@ld, The INCONSTANT Or, the Way to win  he ſold in Fee. T WO M@euages or Tenements, with a large Garden thereto belonging, @tuate in Milk-@reet@, in this City, now in the Occupation of Mr. Ockwell, Tide@ſman, and others. For particulars enquire of Mr. Evans, Attorney, in the Old-Market. Bri@ol, April 14, 1744. @W Hereas Philip Shehan, of the Pari@ſh of Cli@on, in the County of Glouee@er, Gent. having been lately obliged to enter into a certain foreign Mini@er's Service, and that from hence it may be ſuppoſed he @has ſought and acquir'd a Privilege, by Way of a permanent Pro-teion. This is therefore to aſcertain, that all ſuch as I and lawfully indebted to, or W. Welch of this City, Merchant, lately deceaſed, @ood lawfully indebted to, I will, as ſoon as 'tis in my power, diſcharge all ſuch Debts with Honour. Witneſs my Hand, Philip Shehan.h the Duke of Beaufort, for t@he Remainder of a Term of 99 @@Years, now determinable on the Deceaſes of Mr Wil-liam Bonnet, and Mr. John Bonner jun. of Abergavenny, under a Rent of 10 l. 2@5. 6 d. per Annum, and be@ Bea@, or 3 l for an @Herriot. The @@Eate is divided into two Farms one of which is let to James Hughes, at the Yearly Rent of 25 l and the other to Henry @Johns, at the Rent of 22 l. T@heſe Ten-nants have rented the Premiſes for ſeveral Years Enquire of Me@@s. Fortune and @Tu@@dman, Attorneys in Menmouth, or Me@s.@@ Ha@wkins and @Wade, Attorneys in Briol. M To be ſold by Au@ion or othewiſe,  at the Houſe  pots, Waiters, Ca@ors, Salts, @@c. Alſo to be Let or Sold, a Houſe in the Old-Market, held under the Chamber by @Leaſe, for Ninety Nine Years, de erminable on One Life. For Particulars E@nquire of Mr. Edward Reed  in the Pariſhes of Llanvihangel, Pont Mole, and Mamhi@@-lad in the County of Monmouth, con@ing of two Farm Houſes, and proper Out-Houſes, and two hundred an D@r-Patrick Anderſon of Edi@@n-burgh, Phy@cian to his Maj@ey  II. are faith-fu@ly prepar'd from the Origi-nal @Receipt, and made up in long oval Boxes as they have been for ſeveral Years and  with black Wax. with Dr. Anderſon's Head, and round it Dr. PATRICK ANDERSON, and under it, on a Scrol, ORIGINAL SCOTS PILLS, exa@ as in the Margin They are of excellent Uſe in all Caſes where purging is requir'd, and may be taken with Ep@ſom. Scarborough, Nevel Holt Water, or other Medicinal Waters. The following Cure is ju@ receiv'd by one Box of the above PI@L@L@S, Benjamin Cowler, @Lockſmith, in Woolverhampton, being a@ﬀli@ed with an Ague and Fever, and @ﬁnding little or no Relief from the many Medicines which he had taken, was prevailed on to take Dr. Anderſon's Scotch Pills, made up in oval Boxes, and ſealed with Dr. Anderſon's Head as above, in taking the @ﬁr@ Doſe @he found Relief, and in taking three Nights ſucce@@vely, his Illneſs was wholly removed, and he is now as well as ever he was in his Life@@ This Cure is very extraordinary, by Reaſon he ſelt the E@ﬀe@s of it ſo ſuddenly. To prevent any Abuſes by  are only ſold by Mr. Fleet@wood in Liverpool, Mr. Stubbs in C@heer, Mrs. Newton, and Mr. John Berry, Watchmaker in Manche@er, at St. Michae@s Co@ﬀee-Houſe in Maudlin Lane, and at my Printing-O@ﬀice in Shannon-Court, Bri@ol, and by the Perſons w@ho ſerve this Paper @Where @may be had Dr. Rateli@ﬀ's only true Speci@ﬁck Tin@ure for the Tooth-Ach, and all Diſorders and Defe@s of the Teeth and Gums whatever. W HICH gives immediate Eaſe in the mo violent and tormenting Pain, when nothing elſe will and by con@ant uſing never fails to pre-vent its Return. At once or twice uſing it makes the foul@e Teeth mo@ beautifully white, a@uredly fa@ens thoſe that are looſe, and inſallibly preſerres the Teeth from growing rotte@, and thoſe a little de-cay'd from becoming worſe. It perfe@ly cures the Scurvy in the Gums, and cauſes them to grow up to the Teeth again in a very ſhort Time and@ is ex-ceeding for an ill ſcented Breath. No Remedy in the World is of greater E@ﬀicacy for little Children who are cutting their Teeth, freeing them wholly from that Heat and Pain which ſo con@antly attends them, and often is the cauſe of other Diſorders. Be-@des theſe its ine@imable Qualities and ſole inherent Virtues, by which it has ju@ly gain'd ſuch an univer-and unparalle@d great Chara@er, it e@ﬀe@ually pre-ſerves the Teeth and Gums from all Manner of Foul-neſs, Corruption, and Putrifaion and is neither diſagreeable to the Ta@ or Smell. @Where alſo may be had, The mo incomparable and Never-failing CHYMICA@L D@R@O@P@S. B E@I@N@G a ſpeedy Cure for Coughs, Colds, A@hma's, @Wheezing, di@ﬀicult Breathing, and ſhortneſs of Breath, and all Sorts of Conſumptions, for their Virtues va@ly exceed any thing that ever was publiſh'd, or ever known to this Age, in the Cure of the wor
 AND LINCOLNSHIRE GENERAL  January 1, 1828. PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY T. TOPPING, AT THE OFFICE, 51 LOWGATE, HULL. Price 7d.-Vol. 42.-No. 2250. TO THE PATRONS OF  T@HE PUBLIC IN G@@E with feelings of gratitude and respect, the Proprietor of THE  @his sincere acknowledgments to his Friends and the Public, for the liberal support a@ﬀorded to the undertaking in which he has engaged. In connecting himself with this concern, as a fair and honourable speculation, @he was in- ﬂuenced chie@ﬂy by the persuasion, that a Journal so long established, and at one period possessing so large a share of public favour, could not fail, if conducted with spirit, to rise in gener@al estimation, and to attain ultimately such respectability in circulation and commercial patronage as would amply repay his exertions. In pursuance of this object, various improvements were introduced into the typographical department of THE PACKET the size of the sheet was considerably enlarged, and other arrangements were adopted, by which not only the amount of miscellaneous reading contained in the old paper was nearly doubled, but a greater quantity and variety of matter presented to the reader, in this publication, than in either of the other papers printed in Hull. The event has proved that the e@ﬀorts of the Proprietor to raise this publication to eminence , as a most useful and interesting Provincial Journal, have been fully appreciated by a liberal and discerning Public. The result has already exceeded his most sanguine anticipations not only has the circulation of THE PACKET obtained, in the space of two months, an increase of subscribers unprecedented in so short a period, but the numerous favours of the mercantile and other classes, which appear in its columns weekly , prove it to be already @ﬁrmly established as an eligible vehicle for Advertisements, and Notices of every description.-In return for the extensive support he has received, the Proprietor, in acknowledging the heartfelt obligations he is under to his numerous Friends and the Public generally, takes this opportunity to express his intention to spare no pains or ex@pense to sustain the credit already acquired by THE  and to meet with spirit, and with alacrity, competition of every description. In accordance with this determination, he respectfully an- nounces, that arrangements are now in progress for increasing the size of this Journal by the ADDITION of FOUR FULL COLUMNS, in width the twenty‐four columns of which the paper will then consist, to be of such additional length, as may appear consistent with symmetry and fair proportion. A compensation will thus be given to the general reader, for the space occupied by the Advertisements and Notices so liberally contributed to THE PACKET, through the kindness of its commercial friends, and for the room unavoidably taken up by the Markets, Shipping Intelligence, and other articles, valuable to men of business, but conducing little to the@@ interest and attractions of a Newspaper. So very important an increase of space will enable the conductors of this paper to devote more attention to many subjects of a popular c@haracter, that have been necessarily curtailed in their limits in preceding publications, and to impart in other respects an improved feature to this Journal. The Parliamentary proceedings of the ensuing Session, under the present cir- cumstances of the country, will possess a paramount claim upon the attention of all classes of the community. By the increased size of this paper, its conductors will be enabled to present the reader with a faithful transcript of the most important Debates, without abridging the local, mercantile, agrieultural, and other intelligence, interesting to the readers of a Provincial Journal. The period during which this pub- lication has been conducted by the parties at present engaged in it has been so short, that it would be presumptuous to allude particularly to their past labours. It will merely be remarked, t@hat the tone of eandour and impartiality hitherto distinguishing its pages, will continue to be maintained and that every exertion will be made to render its contents useful, varied, and entertaining.-In conclusion, we beg our numerous Friends to@ accept from us t@he compliments of the season , which we hope it will be our fortune to pay to them for many succeeding years, assuring them, that our congratu- lations @ﬂow from hearts grateful for their kind and liberal support. @DR. NORRIS'S FEVER DROPS@. T HIS celebrated Medicine is allowed to be superior to any other remedy in all cases of Fevers, Sore Throats, Slow Fevers, commonly called Nervous, Typhus Fever , and Agues, and all those Disorders which arise from obstructed perspira- tion. In hot climates, where Fluxes and Bilious Complaints are very prevalent, especially in the West Indies and America, these Drops are, by extensive and successful experience, proved to be invaluable. They produce perspiration in the most gentle and easy manner, and without giving the Patient the least disturbance or uneasiness. These Drops, given agreeably to the direction in t@he several and distinct cases, not a single instance has ever come to the knowledge of Dr. Norris, in which they have failed to cure. Purchasers are requested to observe that the genuine preparation of Norris's Drops, will have engraved on t@he Stamp  Price 2s. 9d.-1@1s. and in Family Bottles 22s. eac@h. Sold by T. Topping , R. Allanson, Moxon, Smith Co. Hammond, Turner Co. Ross Burton, Healey, Hudson, Wilkinson, and Lofthouse, Hull Kenningham, Tigar, Turner, and Ramsden, Beverley Dixon, Barton Sherwood, Drif- ﬁeld Faigray, Bridlington Fox, Bridlington‐Quay and all Medicine Venders.  @BAL@M OF GILEAD I S a most agreeable and powerful restorative in all Nervous Dis- orders. This celebrated Cordial is peculiarly e@@ﬃcacious in Inward Wastings, Loss of Appetite, Indigestion, Depression of Spirits, Trembling or Shaking of t@he Hands, s@hortness of Breath and Consumptive Habits. It eases t@he most violent Pains in the Head and Stomach, and promotes gentle perspiration. By the Nobility and Gentry this Medicine is much admired, being pleasant to t@he taste and smell, gently astringing the @ﬁbres of the stomach, and gi@ving that proper tone which a good digestion requires. Nothing can be better adapted to assist the constitution which has been much in@jured by the irregularities of youth, habits of studious application, a life of pleasure, or a residence in hot climates or those w@ho from any cause have fallen into a despondent state of mind, or that dis- tressing train of sym@ptoms, commonly denominated the Nervous. persons the mental powers are not less enfeebled than the corporeal, and to them a remedy that acts with prompt thou@t interfering with domestic habits, is peculiarly desirable. Sold by T. Topping, Allanson, Turner and Co. and Rodford, Hull Turner, Beverley and all respectable Medicine Venders in bottles at 11s. each, and family bottles, containing the quantity of  such disorders as originate in a depraved habit of the body, as obstinate eruptions, undue evacuations, chronic rheumatism, and the consequences of insidious diseases. It is a truly mild, safe, und e@ﬀectual remedy, and the best sub- s@titute hitherto discovered for that dangerous mineral Mercury.  e@@qually well adapted to both sexes, and all ages. There are few f@amilies in which its great utility does not admit of easy proof, as a puri@ﬁer of the blood and a promoter of t@he natural secretions. Illustrations of the e@@ﬃcacy of t@he Cordial Balm of Gilead, and of the  are given in the Guide to Health, which also con- tains much interesting information on health and disease, particularly on t@he origin and treatment of such disorders as result from im- prudence and fashionable vices. Sold in bottles price 11s. and 33s. each. Observe Saml. Solomon, Liverpool, is engraved on the Government stamp a@@ﬃxed to   Five Pound Cases may be had at Gilead‐House, as heretofore ROBBERDS's COUCH DROPS. HESE Drops have been long esteemed for their superior e@@ﬃcacy i@@n Coughs, Colds, Asthmas, and Consumptions they are the invention of an Apothecary of con iderable practice, who stakes @his reputation on their salutary properties the extension of their sale, and the invariable success which accompanies their application, proves that they are a Remedy to be depended upon, on the @ﬁrst attack of Cold, and in t@he most obstinate Cough and Asthma. In a suit commenced in Chancery and lately decided, Messrs. Shaw and Edwards proved their absolute Right and Title to this valuable Medicine. @Mr. Edwards, now the sole Proprietor, informs the Public that the above Drops are faithfully prepared by him from the original Recipe as sworn to by  Inventor, and in his pos- session and that every bottle of the genuine preparation will have engraved on the stamp, Evan Edwards, 67, St. Paul's. Sold in bottles, 2s. @9d. and @4s. 6d. each, and may @be procured of Messrs. T. Topping, Allanson, Ross a@nd Burton, Hull Turner, and Ramsden, Beverley an@d all Medicine Venders. This Day is published, C APTAIN PARRY's First, Second, and Third Voyages,@@ beautifully printed in Five Pocket Volumes, with a Portrait , Map , and Views, engraved by Finden, price only Twenty Shillings, @@@@Printed for John Murray,  WRIGHT,  King's Theatre, Opera Colonnade, Haymarket, London, has now on Sale, warranted, the @ﬁnest Genuine WINES and SPIRITS, at prices Cheaper than any other House in England.  Hennesie Rum, and Whiskies Old Bottled Stout, Ale, Cyder, @@c. from 7s. @6d. per dozen. Florence Oil in Cases,@@@ 30 @ﬂasks. Seven Dozen of Port, Sherry, or Madeira, 23s. 6d. per dozen, well packed in a good Wine hogshead, @ﬁt for any use, including bottles, and for £10. Quarter Casks of Port and Sherry, 28 imperial gallons, permitted from the Docks to the Purchaser direct, Cask in-@ clusive, £15 15s. Cape Madeira, 22@½ Gallons imperial measure,all included 8l. Butts, Pipes, Hogsheads, cheaper than the above prices. Private Boxes, and Admissions for the King's, Covent- Garden, and @Drury‐Lane Theatres, by the Night, Week, and Season. N. B. No Orders will be attended to unless accompanied with a Remittance , and Postage paid.@@@@@ R. ALLANSON ,  B EGS most respectfully to inform his Friends and the Public, that he has just received a large supply of that celebrated domestic Medicine, the CORDIAL BALM of LIFE, viz. Dr. LAMER@T'S NERVOUS BALSAM, or, Nature's In- fallible Restorative under his Majesty's Royal Authority , patronized by the Nobility , Army , Navy , and Persons of all ranks throughout Europe. A most convenient, safe, and infallible remedy for nervous and asthmatic disorders, in ward wastings, lowness of spirits, loss of appetite, palpitation of the heart, oppression of the breast, trembling or shaking of the hands or limbs, mental or bodily decay, seminal weak, ness, dimness of sight, obstinate coughs, shortness of breath- impaired memory , consumption , indigestion , sick head‐ache, frightful dreams, pains or wind in the stomach, and all con- stitutional complaints. The Balm of Life is not recommended indiscriminately for every disease incident to the human frame but for that class of diseases which are termed Nervous, it is an absolute speci- ﬁc. There is rarely a deviation from health in which it will not a@ﬀord relief. It is to be considered that Nervous Diseases constitute one‐third, or perhaps a greater proportion, of the disorders to which we are liable it has, therefore, been in- disputably proved, that the Balm of Life invariably operates on the nerves, producing the most desirable and sanative e@ﬀects, and is of the greatest service to every one of those cases for which it is recommended. It may be given to the ten- derest infant, the pregnant female, and@ palsied old age, with safety and e@@ﬃcacy , hitherto unparalleled in the annals of medical discovery , bei@ng a medicine which will keep in all climates. Prepared and sold, wholesale and retail, by the sole inven- tor, Dr. Lamert, at his Old Medical Establishment, No. 10, Church‐Street, Spital@ﬁelds, London, Ten Doors from the Church, and opposite the Chapel, which has been established for the last sixty years. ASTHMA AND CONSUMPTION. It is well known that Asthma and Consumption are the prevailing diseases of our northern climate. They are pe- culiarly distressing and fatal among the labouring class, @because it possesses scanty means either of arresting their violence in the early stages, or mitigating the agonies of body and of mind, which unavoidably accompany their progress and their termination. Yet singular as it may appear, amidst all the excellent charities which have been established by the public benevolence, no scheme h@as yet been adopted, by which the e@ﬀect of a treatment, adapted in every respect to the nature of the complaints, might have a fair and perse- vering trial. It is not too much to a@@ﬃrm, that the devastation of Asthma and Consumption, though not so rapid and striking, is more extensive, and accompanied with greater pain and misery than that of a pestilence. Would it be believed, or can it be re@ﬂected on without the deepest concern, that in London and its environs alone, ten thousand lives are the annual victims of these destroyers ? If the multitudes who were su@ﬀering and dying of these dreadful maladies during the last winter, were presented at one view before us, amidst all the accumulation of wretchedness, which bodily pain, aggravated by poverty and destitution, produces, the heart would grow sick, and we should eagerly desire to part with our substance, that we might procure relief from the agony of our own feel- ings. But, because the destroyer works unseen in the hovels of the indigent because his victims, instead of being bla- zoned in the public journals, are con@ﬁned to the bills of mortality, the evil passes on with little observation its magnitude and pressure remain almost unknown no ade- quate exertion is made to resist its progress, or mitigate its e@ﬀects and the physician is not furnished with the oppor- tunity of trying , on an extensive @ﬁeld, what medical research may do to alleviate su@ﬀering and to save life. This de@ﬁciency in medical science for the cure of Asthma and Consumption, is now happily @ﬁlled up through the dis- covery, by Dr. Lamert, of his celebrated Nervous Balsam, the true Balm of Life, and a complete Restorative of Nature, which has stood the test of upwards of sixty years' trial and those who have used it in the various disorders to which it is applicable particularly Asthma and Consump- tion , have rarely found it fail in its intended e@ﬀect Dr. L. therefore, con@ﬁdently o@ﬀers it as an e@@ﬃcacious remedy to those af@ﬂicted with the above lamentable disorders, convinced that one trial only will establish its decided e@@ﬃcacy. It is well known, that in pulmonary complaints, the most e@ﬀectual remedy is a timely removal to warm climates but this remedy is very di@@ﬃcult even to the rich, and utterly un- attainable by the labouring poor. The only substitute is the CORDIAL BALM of LIFE, which generally arrests the pro- gress both of Consumption and Asthma in their incipient state, and greatly alleviates the systems of the latter, even when it appears in its most advanced stages. Those unhappy personal weaknesses which render life a burden, and sexual society intolerable, which are the bane of succeeding generations, not only in corporeal imbecility but in mental deprivation invariably yield to Dr. Lamert's superior and salutary mode of treatment. By a process peculiarly his own with the unwearied researches of a most laborious practice of sixty years he is enabled to remove the e@ﬀects of cases long considered hopeless, and leave health and vigour where he found decay and despair. The above salubrious Cordial may be had of Mr. R. Allan- son, at the General Medicine Warehouse, Scale‐Lane, Hull, who will supply any Country Agents, if required, on liberal terms , in bottles at 4s. @6d. and 10s. 6d. each t@he bottle at 10s. @6d. contains three of those at 4s. 6d. or two 10s. @6d. bottles in one for 20s. also a family bottle contain- ing four at 10s. @6d. for 33s., by purchasing which 9s. are saved, duty included. Be sure to ask for Dr. Lamert's Cordial Balm of Life, as @no other is genuine. @@FOGS AND DAMP AIR. B ARCLAY's ASTHMATIC CANDY has, for many years, been proved an e@ﬀectual preservative from the ill e@ﬀects of the Fogs and Damp Air, which, in the Winter Season, are so prevalent in this Climate. Its e@ﬀects are, to expel Wind, to preserve the Stomach from the admission of Damps, and to relieve those who su@ﬀer from Di@@ﬃculty of Breathing. Prepared only by Barclay and Sons, 95, Fleet‐Market, London, and sold, by their appointment, by all respectable Stationers, Druggists, and Medicine Venders, in Boxes, at 2s. 9d. and 1s. 1½d. each, duty included. Observe-None can be genuine, unless the names of Barclay and Sons are on the Stamp a@@ﬃxed to each box. MISCELLANEOUS.  Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock, the examination of witnesses into the conduct of the prisoner Williams, a young man who was for some time on the fatal evening, in company with the unfortunate de- ceased, and to whom some circumstances of a suspicious cha- racter attach, on the night of the murder of Ann Crotchley , was resumed before Mr. Hickson, the Mayor, and the other magistrates. The most decisive evidence was given that Williams had no stick or umbrella @with either of which it is conjectured, the wounds may have been given in his pos- sesion, either when he left the  Arms public‐house, on that night, shortly previous to th@e ime when Crotchley was found lying drunk in Blue Boar‐lane, or at any period of the same night. T@he Mayor and Magistrates retired after the entire of the evidence had been gone into, and after some con- sultation with Mr. Roberson the Town Clerk as to the power of magistrates to admit to bail in a charge of felony of so serious a nature, the latter gentleman consulted Mr. Peel's acts, and advised the magistrates under all the circumstances of the case, to allow the prisoner to stand out till the period of the Sessions, on bail. The Mayor accordingly intimated to Williams that he would be discharged from custody upon @his entering into recognizances, and @ﬁnding bail to answer any bill of indictment which might be preferred against him for felony and murder at the next General Quarter Sessions of the Peace for the City of Oxford, to be holden in the course of the ensuing month. The bail to be himself in £500, and two su@@ﬃcient sureties in t@he sum of £250 each. The prisoner was then removed, the bail required not being at the time forthcoming. It is doubted whether the prisoner will be able to make out the required security , but as the time of trial ap- proaches so nearly , only a temporary deprivation of liberty will be experienced by him. T@he City of Oxford enjoys a privilege possessed by no other city within the British domi- nions, with the exception perhaps of Bristol viz.-the power of trying at its Sessions of the Peace by its own legal head, the Recorder, felonies of the worst description, treason, mur- der, c.  neighbourhood of Brisley , in this county Norfolk , was on Monday thrown into a state of consternation by a report of the body of a boy, named Wm. Moore,about 13 years of age, having been shockingly mangled, and under circumstances which immediately led to the con- clusion that a murder of the most dreadful description had been committed. The most active steps were immediately taken to discover the perpetrator of the inhuman act. On Tuesday and Wednesday last, an inquest was held at the Bell Inn , Brisley , by F. T. Quarles, gentleman, coroner for the liberty of the duchy of Lancaster, on the body. It appeared that the deceased was found in a ploughed @ﬁeld, in the said parish, on the Monday morning , with his neck stabbed or cut in two or three places, and a bandage tied round so as to strangle him his body was ripped open from the breast to the lower part of the abdomen , and his entrails torn out his liver was torn in pieces, and part of it laid by his side The deceased lived with his cousin, Jacob Powley , of Litcham, cordwainer, and was sent by him on a donkey, on Sunday morning , with a parcel to be left at Bintry , Royal Oak. A man named John Kenney overtook the boy on Brisley‐green, from whence they proceeded together passing the Royal Oak at Bintry , Kenney told the deceased it was Twyford upon inquiry he found himself at Foulsham, where he stated that Kenney had led him out of the way he asked at Foulsham if that was Bintry, when he was told it was not, and was directed the way to the Royal Oak, where he had some re- freshment, and corn for his donkey. While at the Oak, he stated that Kenney said he would murder him. The landlady asked him to stay all night, but he said No, I am not afraid. He left the Oak about three o'clock in the afternoon to return home, when he was soon overtaken by Kenney , who was seen lurking near the house during the boy's stay , when he fol- lowed him through Billingford and Elmham, to a place called Elmham Hurdle, on the road leading towards Brisley, where they were seen together at @ﬁve o'clock. The murder is sup- posed to have been committed about six o'clock the same evening. Three witnesses deposed to their having heard screams at the time when, and apparently proceeding from the quarter where, the sanguinary deed was afterwards disco- vered to have been perpetrated. On Monday morning Kenney was apprehended on suspicion of being the murderer, as he was seen wi@th the deceased as before stated, from eleven till @ﬁve in the evening of the same day. After an examination of the witnesses, the Jury returned a verdict of @@@@Wilful murder against the said John Kenney, who was forthwith committed under the coroner's warrant to Norwich Castle, and was conveyed to that gaol by Mr. Johnson, keeper of Swa@ﬀham Bridewell.-Norfolk Chronicle.  very respectable man, whose name we are not disposed to mention, was brought into one of the watch‐houses at Dublin, lately , in a state of extreme exhaustion and wretchedness, and having lingered for a short time, he breathed @his last. From some memo- randums found in his pocket, his name was ascertained, and it was discovered, on inquiry, that his family was most respectable, and that a property which he claimed as a right, was in controversy for some years in the Court of Chancery. An application was after wards made in the proper quarter by his sister, who presented a miserable picture of penury and distress, for means to bury him, and the receiver in the cause was directed to dedicate a sum of ten pounds to that purpose. He, however, not being in funds from the estate, declined paying the sum required, but humanely advanced @ﬁve pounds for the expenses of his interment. The matter would, in all probability , have remained a secret, were it not that a charge was brought by the sister, who asserted that a portion of this money had been converted by the watchmen to their own use, in consequence of which an investigation took place, and the parties were completely exculpated. The misery of this poor creature's appearance de@ﬁes description, yet, notwith- standing, in her mode of expression she evinced education and gentility . The suit to which we allude @has been carrying on for some years, in the course of which period one of the parties as we have stated expired through mere want, in a common watch‐house, and the wretched survivor remains an inmate of our city, without a meal to sustain, or a roof to shelter her.  eight and nine o'clock on Tuesday evening , the neighbourhood of Hatton- wall, London, was thrown into the utmost confusion and terror by a loud and terri@ﬁc explosion, which forced the glass from the windows, and created the most serious fears in the minds of the inhabitants. In a few seconds it was ascertained that the report proceeded from the interior of the Prince of Orange wine‐vaults, which in an instant was enveloped in utter darkness, and @ﬁlled with a dense smoke. As soon as lights could be procured, the interior of the bar presented a seene of indescribable confusion, Mrs. Deighton, the landlady , being in a state of insensibility from the force of the shock , the windows and blinds shivered in splinters, the @ﬂooring raised several inches, and covered with fragments of broken decanters, bottles, and glasses. At this moment a young man rus@hed up stairs from the cellar, in a state of partial su@ﬀoca- tion, and begged some person would hasten to the assistance of the landlord of whose fate he was quite ignorant. Two or three individuals cautiously descended, and after some search found Mr. Deighton extended on the ground, which had been forced up around him, apparently lifeless. He was instantly taken up stairs, and medical assistance procured, and in a few seconds symptoms of returning animation be- came visible, he having fortunately received only a contusion in the forehead and a lacerated nose. His account of this extraordinary transaction is, that having some business in the ale cellar, he went down, accompanied by a friend the person who gave the alarm , and was examining an ale cask, when suddenly he felt the ground shake beneath his feet, and in an instant he was thrown across the cellar, and with the violence of the shock became deprived of all sense. His companion was twice knocked down in endeavouring to escape by the stairs, and has completely lost his hearing on one side. A person who was at the bar at the moment, received so severe a shock, that he still lies dangerously ill three clocks in the house were also instantly stopped by the violence of the concussion and a @ﬁre grate at some distance was forced from its setting. On examining the cellar, the ground was ascer- tained to have been force@d up several feet, full butts were forced from their stations, a portion of the wall thrown down, and a most foetid vapour pervaded the whole cellar but no immediate reason could be assigned for the accident, which was fortunately attended with no fatal consequences. The premises were on Monday inspected by the superintendent of the City Gas Works in Dorset‐street, Salisbury‐square, and in his opinion the accident could not have been caused by the gas of which there was no appearance of escape, and which acted as usual on being re‐lighted. On t@he other hand, the cellar was in constant use, therefore no reason can exist for supposing it to have arisen from the evaporation of pent up vapours. A lighted candle had also been in the cellar nearly the whole of the afternoon. The shock was felt at a considerable distance.  interesting discovery was made last week, by Edmund Tyrell Artis, F.S.A. F.G.S. of a Ro- man villa in the neighbourhood of Helpstone between Stamford and Peterborough , on a spot where even an anti- quarian would not have anticipated any t@hing of the kind. POLICE, EXTRAORDINARY. On Tuesday week, Frederick Robinson was brought before the sitting Magistrates at Bow‐street, to answer to a charge of quitting his master's service without giving him due warning. It ap@peared in evidence, that Robinson had, some months ago en- gaged himself to drive the Sovereign stage‐coach, but @ﬁnding himself unable to manage the horses, and being also apprehensive of the issue of several complaints lodged against him at the next quarter sessions, for careless and unskilul driving he, the said Robinson did last Thursday se'nniglit, just as the Sovereign w@as to leave London, quit the service of his master, and set o@ﬀ to some relations he has in Bedfordshire since which time, every e@ﬀort has been made to get him back to his work without success. The following examination will best explain the nature of the case Magistrate Well, Robinson. What have you to say to all this ? Robinson Please your Worship, I'll tell you the whole truth. I took the place because I likes to @be doing, and thought I could do very well but never having been used afore to work with leaders, vy the sses got the better o' me, and so I thought it best to be o@ﬀ, before any serious damage happened. Magistrate@@@ Have you been long in your master's service ? Robinson Yes, Sir, many years and in his Honour's@ father's service too. Magistrate And did you never try to drive before ? Robinson No, your Worship. I vas @ﬁrst of all book‐keeper, and then I had to pay the men in the yard, and look after the corn bills, and all that and afterwards master set me up in the Checguers, and a prosperous time I had o'nt there. Magistrate And then you tried to better yourself? Robinson Yes, Sur, that was it I thought driving would be good for my health, of which I am particularly careful at all times. Magistrate Pray now, Robinson, speaking of health, didn't your dispute with your master arise about some allowance of spirits in bad weather. Robinson Why, I believe, I did say, your Worship, that I thought he ought to make me an allowance of Hollands. Magistrate I thought you said you were careful of your health, and I am sure that w@ould do you no good was that all you haggled about ? Robinson I can't say as how it was, your Worship we don't somehow, live comfortable in the yars, and I'm all for a quiet life and I know'd about Christmas time, the coach would be loaded with turkey baskets, and I did'nt like such a cargo and so I said to Sly- boots-Magistrate Who is Sly‐boots ? Robinson His name is George, only we calls him Sly‐boots, for shortness. Magistrate What other name has he ? Robinson @@@Tierney, your Worship and he and one Petty , which is a new sarvant, is always a quarrelling, and if Tierney speaks sharp to Petty , saving your Worship's presence, @he swears he'll take the broom to him and its not pleasant, by no means, living in that ere state of fantigue. Magistrate Has Petty been long in the yard ? Robinson Master hired him to stay at home and take care of the o@@ﬃce when I took to driving he has been in sarvice afore, but they don't trust him to drive now, because when he did drive, he ris all the fares nearly double what they vas ven he @ﬁrst come to us. Magistrate Are you aware that your master has been put to con- siderable inconvenience by your absenting yourself? Robinson I am sure I'm werey sorry to illconvenience any gem- man, your Worship but its better for me to go afore any wery bad accident happens I did recommend him a steady chap to take my place, and master sent for him, and o@ﬀered to set him up in the Star and Garter, as well as let him drive, but @he would not handle the rib- bands, and so it all blowed over. Magistrate Why did you recommend that person without know- ing w@hether he would take the place ? Robinson I knew he had always been an uncommon good Rider, your Worship, so I thought he might like to drive but truth is, the team master has got don't draw well together, and so I told him. Magistrate Don't you think, Robinson, you had better go back to your place ? Robinson Just as your Worship pleases one of my fellow‐sarvants did go back after quitting. Magistrate Who is he? Robinson Old Nick, please your Worship, who drives the Bexley Van. Magistrate Do you know @Ben Tinck ? Robinson I do, Sir a Dutch lad he be now in sarvice abroad. Magistrate D'ye think he would do for a coachman ? Robinson He may, your Worship, for all I know some of @his family did drive once, but whether it were his father or @his mother, I can't rightly recollect. Magistrate That is, you don't recollect w@hether it was a mail coachwoman, or a female coachman ? Robinson He, he, he-he, he. Magistrate Do you know@ Ward ? Robinson Which Ward, your Worship ? Magistrate Jack Ward. Robinson @@@Oh, the Dudley boy ? Yes, your Worship, and a s@harp clever lad he be. Magistrate Would he do to drive ? @@Robinson I rather thinks as @how he would'nt, your Worship he did belong to the Opposition, but when t@hat concarn failed, @he co@med over to the Crown to master. I believe he has given warning, your Worship. His father has left him a lump of money, and he don't understand out of doors work much, and I believe he is a going as fast as he can. Magistrate Well now, Robinson, I have been consulting with Sir Richard here we don't wish to be hard upon you will you go back to you place till your master is suited ? Robinson I've no objection whatsumever, provided always, your Worship, that I am let to go before the sessions, w@hich begins the 22d of next month. Magistrate Why, you are not afraid or ashamed of anything you have done, Robinson ? Robinson@@ Both, and please your Worship I never meant wrong but things have all gone wrong, and the sooner I get to rest, the better pleased I shall be. Magistrate But, if your master should not get a servant he can trust ? Robinson Why then, Sir, master must get a coach as will go by steam it would be the making of 'Squire Lambton, your Worship and as for hot water, the Opposition will keep 'um in that. Magistrate Robinson, you are a wag. Robinson Your Worship is the @ﬁrst gemman as ever was pleased to say so. Magistrate Well, will you go back for the present ? Robinson Why, Sir, it's of no use, for I can't neither drive nor lead without@ fear of accident but if you pleases to speak to master, I have no objection to stay over Christmas with him but I won't go and be badgered up at the sessions. Magistrate Go your way then, Robinson, and we'll see what can be done for you. Robinson Good morning, your Worship, and thank you. Robinson left the o@@ﬃce, and we believe has arranged to remain in his present place, for a few days, till his master is suited.-John Bull.  of Requests, Greenwich.-This was a proceeding before the Commissioners of the Court of Conscience, in which the plainti@ﬀ, the Rev. J. J. G. Fischer the founder of the Quicksilver Institute at Greenwich, sought to recover from Ash Abrahams, Esq. the Treasurer to the Establishment, the sum of £1 0s. 5d. for quicksilver supplied by him, and consumed by the gentlemen forming the Committee of the Insti- tute. The plainti@ﬀ stated, that he was the founder of a new Society , which @was called the Quicksilver Institute, planned on the prin- ciples of the British and Foreign Bible Society. On the 7@th Sept. last @he met several respectable gentleman of Greenwich at the Greyho@nnd Inn, who o@ﬀered to join and assist him in @his Quicksilver Medical plan, and formed themselves instantly into a regular society, called the Quicksilver Institute,@@ and a Chairman, Deputy, Secretary, and @his Deputy, were chosen, and the Committee resolved that from 50 to 100 lbs. weight be bought, chosen, and proved to be genuine by him, to distribute gratis to whoever should like to take it, and particularly for the members of the Institute, and to make su@@ﬃcient experiments and experience of what was said and printed of this mineral, the innume- rable virtues it possessed, and its @ﬁtness to be introduced all over the world. It was also arranged t@hat the Institute should take a house for a dispensary. In consequence of this, he ordered successively @ﬁve pounds weight of quicksilver for the use of the Society, and the bill was sent in to the Quicksilver Institute, and was the Society's pro- perty. On the 21st of September he found it necessary to dissolve the Institute, owing to the misconduct of its members. Since the breaking up of the Institution, he had been applied to by the chemist of whom he had purchased t@he quicksilver for payment, but he re- fuse@d, on the ground that it had been bought for the use of the Insti- tute and by its order, and therefore ought to be paid for out of the funds of t@he society by Mr. Ash Abrahams, the Honorary Secretary. Five pounds weight of quicksilver was used altogether, by Mr. Ash Abrahams, Mr. Monk, Mr. Cole, and Mr. Ben. Smith, all of whom swallowed a part of the mercury. Mr. Ash Abrahams, in answer to the complaint, said that he was in the habit of going to the Greyhound tavern to spend the evening with some friends, and Mr. Fischer for several nights bothered them about his discovery in quicksilver, and @he frequently brought @so@me with him, and prevailed upon several gentlemen to swallow some, and he amongst the rest took a piece the size of a pea, for which he paid him six pence, as also did others. It was true they did talk of forming a Society, and he was appointed Honorary Secretary, but he assured the Commissioners that it was all a joke from beginning to end. Mr. Fischer, said t@he quicksilver was always ta@ken at the society, and one night in particular Mr. B. Smith brought in the statue of Mercury, and placed it upon the table, saying he should make it a present to t@he Society, until they had accumulated funds su@@ﬃcient to have a marble one made. The Gentlemen then all drank some quicksilver to the health of Mercury, and t@he bottle was returned to me full of @ﬁlthy water, and they then broke up the meeting, and refused to pay me for the quicksilver they had con- sumed. Mr. Parker, the Solicitor to the Commissioner@, said, Mr. Abrahams, you say you took a portion of the quicksilver, pray may I ask w@hat e@ﬀect it had upon you ? Mr.@ Abrah@ams-Oh, wonderful Sir, I had a crick in the neck for some time, and it removed it imme- diately. Mr. Ben. Smith deposed, that Mr. Fischer had for a long time annoyed them about this universal medicine, and assured them it was even good for horses. Some person in the Court called out yes, and for asses too. A loud laugh. Mr. Smith continued-It had been only a piece of fun from t@he commencement, and whatever had been taken, Mr. Fischer had been handsomely paid for. He must have been aware that it was a burlesque. Mr. Fischer, with great warmth, said he had no idea of @such a thing Mr. Knox, another of the mem- ber@, was now called. Mr. Fisc@her-Mr. Knox is not a @ﬁt man for a witness, because he is o@ne of the party , and he told me I did not know the Greek Alphabet. Incessant laughter Mr. Knox stated that the whole w@as a complete joke from beginning to end, and he told Mr. Fischer so. T@he plainti@ﬀ was then nonsuited.  From Snatches of Oblivion. - At length t@he day, ' big with t@he f@ate of my future fame or obscurity, was ushered in. T@he church clock at length chimed six, the hour at which I should have entered the theatre a a condemned malefactor could not have listened with more mute horror to his death‐knell than that which pervaded me at t@he moment. My@@ high@‐ﬂown expectations at once deserted me, and I would have given up all the little I had ' in possession or expectancy' of the world's goods to have freed myself from the trial I was about to undergo.-Throwing myself, how@ever, into a hackney‐coach, which was waiting at the door, I ordered the driver to carry me to the theatre. It seemed scarcely a moment since I quitted my own dark little chamber. before I found myself transported into a brilliantly‐lighted dressing room, which had @been prepared expressly for my reception. Mirrors from the ceiling to the @ﬂoor, perfumed wax emitting a brilliant and @ﬂattering light, representing a fairy scene to my bewildered eyes, w@hile the half dozen attendants, who were employed in decorating my @person, seemed like so many silent spirits to assist the delusion.-When the operation of dressing was concluded, I entered the green- room, and endeavoured to throw an air of carelessness over my manners, which the most inexperienced could have detected was assumed. 'Twas a vain attempt-I was the object of attention of every person present-every eye was directed to me. Equally vain were my endeavours to converse familiarly with my friends, they all seemed trying to give me encouragement, of which I must have palp- ably stood in need. The business of t@he stage commenced, performer after performer quitted the room-how I envied the perfect nonchalance with which they received the call, and how I trembled at the very expectation of hearing my own name uttered, which I knew a very few minutes would accomplish. I repeated @ﬁfty times to myself the @ﬁrst words. I impressed on my mind t@he peculiar emphasis and gesture I should make use of, till the call‐boy gave the notice that ' my moment was come.' I was conducted to the side‐scenes by my friends, one of whom slapped me on the shoulder. I needed some- thing to rouse me, every spark of self‐possession had ed@@@ suddenly @making a desperate e@ﬀort, I rushed forward, but suddenly drew back, as if I was entering the portal of an enchanted palace ' foolish,@ ex- claimed some voice, not ' loud, but deep ' it w@@@as my friend the manager, who immediately pushed me, as it were, on the stage.-Before I was well aware of my situation, I was fairly in the front of the house, the solitary unit, for I know@ not how many thousand pair of eyes to gaze at. What was my horror at that moment ! A@ audible buzz went through the house, and an awful stillness suc- ceeded. Oh ! awful to me beyond language ! The glare of light prevented me from looking up and when I did, I saw my brethren on the stage eyeing me with most inquisitive vigilance how poor at that moment appeared to me the fame, the riches of the world, in comparison with their self possession and consummate coolness. A @ﬁlm seemed to @ﬂoat before my eyes-I felt as if I was reeling an hysterical a@ﬀection swelled my throat, not a word could I utter. My pitiable situation at once aroused the feelings of a genuine English audience they saw the emotions under which I was labouring, the stillness was broken, and an animating round of applause @ﬁlled the house. In the midst of this tumult I felt the energy of @my mind return. Lifting my eyes from the boards, to which they had been till then rivetted, I looked around, and seeing none but encouraging faces, the spirit of hope entered my veins-every faculty was sharpened -and when the applause had subsided, I delivered the few lines I had to repeat w@ith as much e@ﬀect as I did the day preceding before a looking‐glass. I was not long left in doubt of the nature of my re- ception. As the performance proceeded, the house was occasionally shaken with acclamations. The stage, which seemed at @ﬁrst to me the @ﬁeld of alarm and dismay, now was the arena of triumph, and I trod it with the feelings of a victorious hero. My death‐scene was the proudest hour of my life, for it was there that the general enthu- siasm discovered itself, and I was carried from the stage thoroughly intoxicated with my complete success. Yet still the cup of my hap- piness was to be crowned with a more sparkling brim. After the play a general call resounded for my appearance. I entered again on the stage but how di@ﬀerent were my feelings ! The audience rose-the house reverberated with applause-hats and handkerchiefs were waved, and my name sent up, as it were, by a thousand voices to the skies. The play was given out, and I rushed from the stage revelling in all the delirium of a highly‐excited imagination.  Rich was employed in planning a pantomime, his atelier, a small room in the theatre, was almost as much frequented as Canova's or Thorw@aldsen's in our days. Every one seemed to be anxious to see him at his interesting labours. Amongst these were several men of rank and wit for Rich's colloquial oddities were much relished. The celebrated Lord Peter- borough, then somew@hat advanced in years, Hogarth, Sir James Thornhill, c. c. were of the number. At these visits he never in- termitted his labours, nor his strain of facetious remark. Upon one occasion, accident having detained the Earl's coach later than usual, he found Rich's chit‐chat so agreeable, that he was quite unconscious that it was two in the afternoon when he observed the man of @pan- tomime spreading a cloth, then coaxing his @ﬁre into a clear culinary @ﬂame, and proceeding with gravity to cook his own beef‐steak on his own gridiron. The steak sent up a most inviting incense, and my Lord could not resist Rich's invitation to partake of it. A further supply was sent for and a bottle or two of wine from a neighbouring tavern, prolonged their discourse to a late hour. But so delighted was the old peer with his entertainment, that, on going away, he proposed renewing it at the same place and hour on t@he Saturday following. He was punctual to @his engagement, and brought with with him three or four friends, men of wit and pleasure about town,@@ as Mr. Bayes would call them and so truly festive was the meeting, t@hat@ it was proposed that a Saturday's club should be held there, whilst the town remained full. A sumptuary law, even at this early period of the society, restricted the bill of fare to beef‐steaks, and the beverage to port wine and punch. Thus the corner‐stone of the Sub- lime Society was laid.-The Clubs of London. CHRISTMAS THEATRICALS. DR@URY‐LANE.-On Wednesday, the new pantomime made its appearance under the title of Harlequin and Cock Robin, or the Babes in the @Wood.-It was an excellent burlesque upon that popular story, and it was the occa- sion of a good deal of laughter. The two babes doated on by their parents were such bandy‐legged disagreeable urchins, that it really was quite asto- nishing how the cock‐robins could trouble themselves to cover them with leaves, unless to get rid of so unpleasant a sight in the wood as their dis- torted dead bodies. The performances of the gigantic birds who discharged this pious o@@ﬃce were also very ridiculous, and they hopped about the stage to the in@ﬁnite delight of the younger part of the audience. The undertakers of the murder were a butcher and a carpenter, who had been bribed by the wicked uncle. It should be noticed some fearful supernatural agency is employed for the instigation of the murder, in which the genii of Gloom and Destruction @ﬁgure very prominently. The transformations take place in the sixth scene, the Elysium of Innocence when Sir Roland, the cruel uncle Mr. Barnes , is changed into Pantaloon the butcher Mr. Southby and a female innkeeper Mr. Uusher , into Clowns Walter, the carpenter @@Mr. Howell , into Harlequin and Deborah Rose, an innke@eper's daughter, into Columbine. Here, in fact, the pantomime commences-the @ﬁrst part or introduction being a sort of ludicrous drama. Some of Stan@ﬁeld's views are beautifully painted and we may notice, especially, Portsmouth wit@h shipping in a gale, and Old London Bridge, in 15@99-very di@ﬀerent subjects. but executed in a style of art peculiarly his own. The more gorgeous and ingenious scenes by Marinari and Andrews, in their wav, were also of the best description. Some good‐humoured satire and touches at the times are introduced in the course of the performance, which met with general appro- bation. Two jokes of this kind were highly relished by the audience in one of them a poor Italian image‐bearer is introduced with a naked Cupid he is discovered, and denounced by certain members of the society for the suppression of vice, but he contrives to satisfy their moral scruples by cheating an old Jew clothesman so far out of nature out of an old pair of breeches and a waistcoat with which he clothes the truant of Venus. -The other is a well‐merited ridicule of the present fashions among ladies of wearing bonnets of a most preposterous and unbecoming size, and among men of wearing enormous whiskers and smoking cigars. Some of the tricks and changes were rapid and surprising, even to those who all their lives have been pantomime hunters.  fable, if we may so call it, of the new pantomime at this house, is founded on the @ﬁrst of the seven legends of Number Nip. We cannot venture to rank this pantomime among the best of its genus, although we have certainly seen worse. For the success it met with it is principally indebted to Parsloe, whose agility and contortions rendered him a most e@@ﬃcient representative of a goblin who is a very Proteus in his way. In the zoological garden by far the most amusing scene of the piece the animals escape, and here, in the shape of a runaway monkey, @he appears to great advantage. A most magni@ﬁcent peacock, on a grand scale, and a cameleopard, also gave great satisfaction on this occasion. @The moving panorama is a beautiful thing of its kind, and the con@ﬂict, we are happy to say, was well carried on by means of kettle‐drums vice gunpowder. The tricks are few in number, nor have they any claim to originality most of them, indeed, such as the bear's grease producing extempore moustachios, the skaiting, Harlequin's coach, steam‐boat, @@c. are very old acquaintances. It boasts, however, some very pretty scene@s, especially the early ones, though that of London from the new Coliseum, on which the artist seems to have particularly calculated, is a failure. @The applauses, comparatively faint during the progress, were general at the conclusion of the piece. LONDON POLICE.  Monday week, a young woman, of very interesting appearance, applied to Alderman Farebrother, who sat for the Lord Mayor, under the following circumstances -She had been, she said, a@bout ten years ago, when she was no more than @16 years of age, prevailed upon @by her mother, who was fascinated by the Methodists, to marry a minister from amongst them, although a gentleman, who is high in the law in the Welsh districts, had been paying his addresses to her at the time. After three years of great unhappiness, her husband abandoned her, and her mother, who, notwithstanding the misconduct of the minister, lost none of her attachment to the sect of which he pretended to be the ornament, married one of the persons who are we believe she said called Ranters, and soon found  his religion had been put on to enable him to deceive with the more dexterity. Her mother did not long survive the marriage, and then the cloven foot immediately ap@peared to the unfortunate appli- cant and her sisters for their step‐fat@her contrived to get hold of every farthing of property to which they were entitled, amounting to several hundreds each, and refused to give them the slightest assistance or relief.-Under these melancholy circumstances, the young woman came to London, and succeeded in procuring a situation as ladies' maid, in the neighbourhood of Brunswick‐square, where she resided two years. Her former lover, however, found out the place of her abode, and persecuted her until he prevailed upon her to leave her honest employment and live with him as @his wife. For the space of two years she was his constant companion, some- times residing with him at the Temple, and sometimes at Brighton. At length he also abandoned her and, left desolate, without father, mother, money, or friends, she had no means of saving herself from starvation ex- cept that to which she submitted in her extremity-prostitution. She had frequently written to the gentleman who had seduced her from the life of industry which she had chosen, but in vain @he never took notice of her misery. He had been but very lately married, and she would not, on any account, disturb the happiness of the family to which he was united@. She would, however, disclose his name, and other particulars relating to him, to the superintendent of the Magdalen Asylum, or of the Female o@a@in an introduction from the worthy magistrate whom she addressed. Her condition was wretched in was driven by the most desperate necessity into habits w@hich she detested, and all she asked for was an opportunity and a place  unfortunate female said, in conclusion, that u@pon @eady to stand or fa@ll. There w@as nothing connected with her deplorable fortune which she would not detail to the principal of any charitable establishment where, by honest  be enabled to pass her days away from the horrors to which she @had been exposed. The applicant's countenance is full of care, and @she has many of the symptoms of consumption about her but a little humanity may do a great deal. She was supplied with adequate means of support by the direction of the alderman, until the intentions of the governors of the Female @Penitentiary shall have been made 
 last shew of @independence has vanished from Italy in the annihilation of the Papal power, which has fallen with hardly the notice of a newspaper. So di@ﬀerent is modern from ancient Rome, which Wi@th heaviest so@und, a giant statue fell a@nd so much worse is t@he corruption of a good reli- gion than the philosophical use of a bad one.-As to Sicily, the last retreat of the Bourbon Monarchy, it can hardly be preserved, when our resources are so distracted and divided, from the ambition of such a @man@ URA@T. In short, throughout the whole Continent, only one Government appears to have become sensible of the necessity of it's own@ reformation and that@ the age may lose nothing of it's novelty, this Government is Turkey.  undaunted at the fate of Sultan SELIM, who lost his life in attempting reform, has had the boldness not only to disband the Turkish Pretorian bands, the Janissaries, but to aim a direct blow at the Mussulman superstition by declare- ing that di@ﬀerence of faith has nothing to do with @good, soldiership. In consequence of these enlighten- ed measures the downfall of Turkey may yet be de- layed or at any rate may deserve pity.  an excellent opportunity just now, during the em- ployment of BONAPARTE in Spain, to pursue his vigo- rous designs and it is not the Emperor's policy to quarrel @wit@h such men, however it may be his passion to conquer them. He may easily indeed get over bis pretended scruples about attacking a State not entirely @corrupt, either by involving Russia in a war with Turkey as he has involved her with Sweden, or by exciting the Greeks to revolt, as they may certainly @do with the utmost justice. The Seven Islands are already his vassals, and the Greeks are a shrewd en- terprising people, with something of their ancient @soul about them in their very slavery. GOD grant that the continued, the unchanging proofs of the wretched e@ﬀects of corruption, may teach us all to philosophise a little better in politics and that an Englishman may not have the shame of recording another such a year as 1808. @☞ FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE. SWEDEN. STOCKHOLM, DEC. 5.-The following Report has been received from Gen. Klercker, Commander in Chief of the Northern Finnish Army - My last Report was on the 10th of November, and was dispatched from Brahestad by Capt. Kuhefelt. Your Majesty's army under @my command has since retreated to Pyhajocki and Yppiri, where the Russians made an attack on our rear, turned the left @ﬂank near Merrijarive, advanced against Peliskaski to take the a@rmy in the rear, an@d thus compelled the army to fall back to Patjocki, and on the 17th a position near Sykajocki, Ru- volar, and Palsola, @@was@ occupied by our troops but in consequence of the enemy's corps having been reinforced to 20,000 men,@ furnished with @60 pieces ofof heavy ordnance,  Majesty's army having been reduced to 7000 men, by losses in the @ﬁeld and sickness, it became impossible to maintain our position, and I thought it advisable to open again a negociation for an Armistice, the result of which was the Convention which I hereby have the honour to lay at your Majesty's feet. C. N. KLERCKER, Gen. in Chief of the Northern Finnish Army, Memberg, @Nov. 24, 1808. CONVENTION BETWEEN THE RO@YAL FINNISH A@RMY IN NORTH FIN- LAND, AND THE IMPERIAL RUSSIAN ARMY. By virtue of the powers vested in us, we, the under- signed, have agreed and stipulated the following ar- ticles -@@1. The Royal Swedish Army is, immediately after the noti@ﬁcation of this Convention, to take up a position along the frontiers of the district of Uleaborg, from Kerni to Porkawara. Kerni, in consequence, remains in the hands of the Russians. 2. The Swedish Army is to evacuate the town of Ulea- borg within ten days next ensuing the date of this Conven- tion, and the Russian troops are to take possession of t@he said town on the 30th of November. The other parts of the country which are to be given up to the Russians, shall be evacuated according to the agreement yet to be con- cluded between the Contracting Parties. 3. The rear of the Swedis@h Army shall retreat by the route agreed upon, and whatever cannot be removed by the Swedish troops in their retreat, shall be consideredas a good and lawful prize. 4. The Swedish Army binds itself neither to destroy, distribute among the inhabitants, nor sell the magazines which they shall be necessitated to surrender. 5. The Swedish troops are not to take them from Ulea- borg, or other places to be surrendered, any Civil O@@ﬃcers, nor any articles or goods belonging to the provinces. 6. The Swedish Army, is to send back @all Civil O@@ﬃcers, and inhabitants of t@he places evacuated by their troops, provided it be done by t@he desire or with the consent of the said persons. 7. This Convention shall be rati@ﬁed by t@he res@pective Generals in Chief of both armies, and@ the rati@ﬁcations ex- changed to‐morrow night. Baron  @Gen.  Gen. Olkjoc@ki, 7‐18th Nov. 1808. Rati@ﬁed 8‐20 Nov. 1808. Count Buxhoevden@, General in Chief of the Impe- rial Russian Army, proposed additional articles of the Convention, concluded between the Royal Swedish Army in North Finland, and the Imperial Russian Army. Art. 1. The Armistice concluded between the two ar- mies is to continue one mouth next ensuing the day o@n which the Swedish Army crosses the district of the fron- tiers of Uleaborg, or until the 12th of January, 1809, and notice of the cessation of the Armistice shall be given at least 15 days before hostilities are recommenced. Art. 2. During the Armistice, the Imperial Russian troops are not to cross the river Kerni. C. N. KLERCKER, General of Infantry and Gen. in Chief of the Royal Swedish Army in Finland. Head‐quarters, Linnugo, Nov. 20. GENERA@@L,-I have the honour to inform you, that the Convention, which was yesterday co@ncluded, has been rati@ﬁed by his Excellency General Count Bux@hoevden, and I shall now trasmit it to Count Potemkin, in order that the exchange of the rati@ﬁcation @may be @oﬀected. Wi
 had an interview with his MAJESTY yesterday at Windsor, on Military bu- siness. The papers, containing the opinions of the Members of the Court of Inquiry, were laid before his MAJEST@Y, whose pleasure will be made @known in a few  The Belvidere of Mrs.Beaumont on her ﬁrst appearance in London.-It's superiority in general truth to that of Miss Smith and of Mrs. H. Siddons.-Decla- mation and passion.-@The chief beauty of stage mad- ness.-A rule to discover the better judgment of the audience. COVENT GARDEN  from the Glasgow Theatre, made her @ﬁrst appearance in London last Thursday evening as Belvidera in Venice Preserved. She is the sister of Mrs. M@UDIE,@ so@mewhat resembles her relation in the cast of countenance and in the lower tones of her voice, particularly in an unpleasant drag on the sylla- bles ir and ur but her face is at @the same time more intelligent, her voice of more compass, her general appearance much more youthful, and her powers alto- gether in@ﬁnitely @more reputable. Belvidera is an ar- duous character her sense is@ masculine, her sensi- bility truly feminine so that an actress of mere me- diocrity is in continual danger of rendering the part too declamatory on the one hand or sinking it into a whin- ning feebleness on the other and even a superior per- former, unless she possesses as much judgment as ge- nius, will occasionally lean too much to one particular passion Miss SMITH for instance, who lately adorned this company, gave too@ matronly a dignity to Belvi- dera@ Mrs.  who cannot assume a pas- sion decidedly vehement, renders it too generally plain- tive and I have no hesitation in saying, that the new actress, without the @ﬁne tragic countenance of the one or the truly feminine expression of the other, excels both of these ladies in a natural combination of pathos and passio@n, of the yielding and the@ commanding qua- lities of Belvidera, of a heart full of sound feeling and a head full of sound sense. There is very little decla- mation in OTW@AY upon any occasion, but Mrs.  MONT undoubtedly failed most when she had more to argue than to feel, a de@ﬁciency which detracts less from her real genius than any other fault in tragic act- ing, since pity and terror are the great objects of tra- gic genius @whether of the poet or the performer, and it is a @good critical law by which you@ may detect much of the @ﬁne nothings of the stage, that an actor, comparatively speaking, of little genius, will convert passion into very good declamation, while a great ge- nius will tur@n declamation itself into @a thousand feel- ings. The talent however is, I confess, as rare as it is sublime, and no performer on the present stage can exhibit it, but Mrs. SIDDONS. Madness, which is al- ways the touchstone of a tragic performer, since it brings out all the @ﬁner passions at once, gave Mrs. BEAUMONT an opportunity of shewing at once all the powers of @her fancy and her face, a@nd if in the latter she was not exactly that beauty of delirious seduction which OTWA@Y paints with his usual tinge of pruriency, she nevertheless passed with very excellent expression from indi@ﬀerence to feeling@, from@ feeling @to strong passion, and from@ a strong passion to an exhausted one. When she described however the imaginary horrors of the weather, she ought to have painted them more @@with her action, as in covering her head for instance with a petty carefulness when she fancied@ the rain. These little actions, done occasionally with a minute and overstrained sobriety of demeanour, are the @ﬁnest contrasts of insanity. In short, there was@ much ex- cellent performance and still greater promise i@n Mrs.  appearance, and she is certain@@ly a considerable acquisition to this company in the absence of Miss SMITH, for w@ith all @the illustrious talents of o@ur great Melpomene, she is really becoming too old for any thing amatory and too large for any thing youthful. Mrs. BEAUMONT is earnestly advised to forget all that occasional tendency to rant, which is sometimes so necessary to a country audience but which she @has too@ much good sense to preserve in town @@and she cannot lay down a better rule for knowing the real judgment @@of the audience than to mistrust the applause which sometimes comes down in thunder from the Gods. The @ancient orator, when he was interrupted in the middle of his speech by a shout of applause from the mob, turned round to his friends to know what he had said to expose himself. It is in a theatre as in a state the freedom of feeling and expression is to be found in the middle class the boxes repress them- selves from a notion of polite reserve, and the gal- leries like nothing but what is as noisy a@nd@ vulgar as@ themselves, The honest truth lies in @@@@@@ ☞ AN ATTEMPT TO SHEW THE FOLLY AND DA@NGER OF @METHODISM. @IN A SERIES OF ESSAYS. ESSAY  the Prevention of Methodism NOBODY denies that the Church has it's corruptions but it does not follow that Methodism will cure them. If the Chur@ch @has become too worldly minded, Me- thodism is not less so because it is less exposed. Look@ for instance into the intrigues of t@heir societies.-If t@he Church is too lax in what is called the real faith, Methodism on the other hand is too rigid. Examine for instance whether it is worth while to insist on all the articles which t@he Godly accuse @us of neglecting. Many of the Church's divisions arise from the in@ﬂexi- bility of points which are not essential to virtue. Will the Elect reconcile these points by rendering them still more in@ﬂexible ? Most of the Church's corruptions @arise from it's connexion with the state, with the great and the rich, in short, with the world. Will the Godly be less corruptible when they are abroad in th@e same temptations ? Will a father who is one of the saints be less anxious to use interest for his own son in prejudice to Clergymen better quali@ﬁed ? Will their THE@@@@@@@ 
 for this Paper which is at preſent circulated by Po@ to all  England, or they may be ſent, under Cover to Mr.@ Thomas Pyne,  @Towns North and South, from Liverpool to Plymouth throughout  dire@ly to the Author, who will take Care to inſert  Computation. MON@D@@@@  l@a arrived a Mail fro@m  March 5. A large populous well @for-@@ti@ﬁed City, founded by Peter the Great in 1703, from whom it takes its Name, and carried on with that @@Rapidity, in Spite of almo@ invincible natural  in one Year's Time it con@@ed of more than 30000 @Houſes, and now of above double that Number. It ands at @the Bottom of the Finnick G@ulph, is the Seat of the Court and publick O@ﬀices, and at preſent even vies with Moſcow, the@ Metropolis, for Grandeur and Magni@ﬁcence. L ORD Tyrawley, who lately arrived here, is exceedingly well received. He confers daily with the Miniers, and, 'tis thought, will ſpeedily carry his Point. T@@@@he  @@Merchants who@ trade thro' this Country to Per@a have @@Ord@ers @for twice the Quantity of Goods   and @Seat of the D Sardinia. The French@ and Spaniſh Squ  @ﬁr@ are in Alicant. Road, and  in Spain, fro whence  to Sea again, and no@ March, 13. The  Nice, part of Piedmont, anding on@@  at the Mouth of the@  we heard the @ﬁring of Cannon@ at Antibes †, which made People conclude that Don @Philip was ju arrived there. The French and Spaniards are aembred  Frejus and Cannes@ †,  the King@ of Great@ Britain, received an Expreſs from London, whichhe immediately@ diſpatche@d for@@ Germany. ''I is ſaid that@ this Courier is going to Dreſden, Berlin, and Petersb@argh, to demand of thoſe Courts the Contingents which they are obliged to furniſh to his Britannick Ma-je@y in the preſent Conjun@ure, and this Day he pre-ſented the following Memorial to the States  Warſaw, March 17. Capital of the Palatinate of @Ma@ovia, and Metropolis of t@he whole Kingdom, the Center of the Poliſh Dominions, and the uſual Seat of their Kings, Diets and Courts of Judi.@@ at The Report of Count Poniatowski's Death was only ſprea@d to give him. In Opportunity of retreating to a Place of Security 'till he ſhould obtain the King's Pardon. Count Tarlo's Relations, however, are preparing @to revenge his Death, which, unleſs the King's Arrival prevents it, is likely to occa@on new Troubles. G@E@R@M@ANY. Vienna, March 21. The Metropolis of the Circle of  Place. There  arrived a Antibes ſeveral Tranſports fro@m the Coa e the Camp at Cannes i@n Provence@. Marc@h 18. Every Thing is ready for throwing t@@wo Bridges over the River Varo, which the Army m@u  to form a Line of Battle upon the@ M@ountains at the ſame Time two Bodies wia  nt@, to diſlodge a thouſand Men which the@ King of Sardinia has po@ed th@ere. It is believed  them. Be@des there are 4 Engliſh Ships cruizing between Antibes and Villa Franca , that Ye@erday @ﬁrd ſeveral Cannon at us as we p@@aed along, which has o bliged our General to raiſe 4 Batteries in order to force them to retire, Paris, March 30. The Metropolis of all France, and Seat of their Kings and Parlia@@ments@. Count Saxe is, at la@,  a Marſhal of France, and is to be employed in Flanders. M. Ri@@gaut, one of our mo celebrated Engrav@ers, is a@ually engraving the P@iures of @the Pretender's two Sons, from the Originals done at Rome, by the able@ Mailers Several Thouſands of @ Prints are to be diribured in England, Scotland the@@  T@he Courier which Prince Lobowitz diſpached to give the Queen an Account of the Retreat of the Spa-niards into the Kingdom of Naples, and to require fur  Notice of the Ho@ilities which France was meditating again@ the King @@my Maer, I had the Honour to demand of your High@ Mightine@es a part of the Succour due to his Majey by the Treaties @@your High Mightine@es @   with ſo much Cordiality and @Readineſo, having been pleaſed to give, at the ſame Time, in  the 2d of la@ Month. A@urances of all the  the common Intere@ and the Obligatio@ns of the Treaties might require, and  power, that it would be doing your High Mightine@es an Inju@@ice not to depend, in the pre-@ſen upon receiving an@ Anſwer e-qually ready and favourable to the Demand which  make at  who, by the open War, which  again@ him, has a Right  Equity and Wiſdom of your  entire @E@@@ﬀe of the  the tw@o Nations, and which  me to require  1678, con@@i@ng of 20 Men of War well mann@ a@nd provided, to the joined with all Expedition to t@he Fleet which his M@jey is  in the Channel. At the ſame @Time that the King expes this new proof of the good Faith and Friendſhip of your High Migh-@@@tine@es, his @@Maje@y commands me to expreſs to you his entire @Satisf@aion in, and an Acknowledgement of tha which he has @ſo lately receied, and to a@ure your High Mightionees of the exae@ Return on @his part, in ſo criti-cal a @Co@njunure, wh@ere the Hearts and Hands of the two Nations ought to be united as th@ere of one People. It is, High and Mighty Lords, this real and e@ﬀeive Union, that, next to the Ble@@ng of the Almighty, which the Ju@neſs of his Maje@y's Arms gives the great-e@ Reaſon to hope for is the @ronge@ and ſecure@ Bar-rier that we can oppoſe  every Enemy to the proſperity, the Liberty, and Independency of our reſpec-tive Countries. Done at the @Hague this 14th Day of Apr@ Trevor. LON@D@ O@end, March 28. @A @ﬁne Sea Part Town in the Ear@ldom of Flanders, belonging to the  March 21. A free Imperial City of  under the Convoy of two Mon of War, and this Day  Boat broug@ht over ſeveral Lords, and other  Waggons laden with Ammunition came near this  City,@ was refuſed and oblig'd to paſs thro'  Franckfort, March 29. The Metropolis of thelis of  @write from Paris, that in the mid@ of all the @@violent Meaſures taken there, many People of Penetration@  and Cannes are both Sea Port Towns of  after which he @ﬁred his Piece where@-upon ſome Body return'd the Fire, and ſhot the Ce@ntine in the Leg, which alarm'd the Guard@, who,  
 of religious decency and the blood rushes to @my cheek when I think of it. It was at the funeral of one of the best of @women, whose life was one con- tinued sacri@ﬁce to Christian patience.@ T@he Curate had had some despicable little dispute with one of the per- sons employed, and he came to the burying place, not with respect to the departed and devotion to the great Dispenser of life and death, but with all the scowls and the sullenness of baf@ﬂed meanness. He began to repeat the service by rote and at the same time to look about him, and he co@ntinued to drawl, to look about him, and to eye, every now and t@hen, the object of his animosity, with so gross a want of common feeling and Christiani- ty, that nothing could prevent me from publishing the name of the miscreant, but a respect to that blessed memory, which he insulted at the edge of the grave. -@But let me forget this scene.-Mere earnestness has done more for the Methodists than all the miracles and inspiration they can bring together and the Church of England, which possesses men to whom the best of them are but meek bigots, will in vain@ be learned in it's doctrine and liberal in it's practice, if it su@ﬀers every enthusiast who has con@ﬁdence and a loud voice to carry away it's religious multitude by an ap- pearance of more heart‐felt devotion. All this, how- ever, still depends upon the @ﬁrst cause, an enlightened reformation.ation. 4. In the mean time, the Laity who oppose the Methodists f@rom a love of Christian toleration, have nothing to do but to attack them with the weapon most formidable to ignorance and intolerance, sheer ridi- cule. Few of the Methodists know how to reason, and those who pretend to knowledge, tell us they will not allow it so they must be ind@ulged. Admire the usual inconsistency of these@ men when they have reason on t@heir side, they reject it and when they reject it, it is in the very rejection they have it most on their side. I cannot conclude my subject better than by quoting the witty and the wise advice of an author, who in one of his Poems has @shewn how truly he could estimate the beauty of real Christianity, while at the same time he was a bitter foe to every species of fanaticism. The Methodists say they despise ridicule because it makes no serious impression, as if COL-@  frippery or HILL'S bu@ﬀoonery made any such impressions on men who have true conceptions either of reasonon or ridicule but if all the wits would exert themselves, I much suspect that ridi- cule would make very serious impressions and there is still a stronger reason, says  the enthusiast's being an enemy to laughter, namely, his being himself so proper an object of ridi- cule. It is remarkable, that the propagators of false doctrines have ever been averse to mirth, and always begin by recommending gravity, when they intended to disseminate imposture. Fohi, the idol of China, is represented as having never laughed Zoroaster, the leader of the Bramins, is said to have laughed but twice, upon his coming into the world, and upon his leaving it and Mahomet himself, though a lover of pleasure, was a professed opposer of  Ridicule @has ever be@en @the most powerful enemy of enthusiasm, and properly the only @antagonist that can be opposed to it @with s@uccess. Persecution only serves to propagate new religions they acquire fresh vigour beneath the executioner and @@the axe,@@ and like some vivacious insects, multiply by dissection@. It is also impossible to@ combat enthusiasm with reason,@ for though it makes a shew of resistance, it soon eludes t@he pressure, refers you to distinctions not to be un- derstood, and‐feelings which it cannot explain. A man who would endeavour to @ﬁx an en@thusiast by argument,@ might as well attempt to spead quicksilver with his @ﬁngers. The@ only way to conquer a visionary is to despise him the stake, the faggot, and the disputing doctor, in some measure ennoble the opinions they are brought to oppose they are harmless against innovating pride contempt alone is truly dreadful. @@☞ ABUSES IN CHRIST's HOSPITAL. It is much to be feared that a proper inquiry into the abuses of this Institution will not soon take place. A motion was lately made at a General Meeting of the Governors for appointing a Committee to inquire into the alledged abuses. Upwards of 100 Governors were present, yet only seven held up their hands for the motion !!-Aldermen Newnham, Smith, and Birch, were particularly anxious to prevent inquiry. How many improper objects have these Gentlemen recom- mended, that they wish to sti@ﬂe all investigation? It must be confessed that this conduct of the Go- vernors is more than @@suspicious. Why not inquire ? What harm can possibly result from investigation, if the parties have nothing to fear,-if their conduct has been pure and upright ? Honest men know well that concealment must always create suspicion, and is therefore to be avoided. If the Governors have done their duty, inquiry would only tend to their honour and advantage but if they have slumbered at @their posts,-if they have from impure motives su@ﬀered the Institution to be abused by the admission of improper objects,-their solicitude to avoid inquiry is not to be at all wondered at. That hundreds of unfortunate objects have applied in vain for admission, is su@@ﬃciently notorious and that many persons with abundant means of educating and providing for their children and relatives have ob- tained their admission into the School, is also equally well known. The Vicar of Edmonton's case, thanks to the exertions of Mr. Waithman, is now as generally known as his conduct is reprobated but his is not the only recent abuse. A boy says Mr. Waithman in his Letter to the Covernors of the name of Car@ysfort Proby, has been admitted since Mr. Warren's son, un- der the presentation of Sir George Baker, Bart. I will ask, whether his father hat not two livings, Bee-wood and Litch@ﬁeld, in Sta@ﬀordshire, of the value of 7001, per ann. besides his own and wife's fortune ?-@@whether the boy is not nephew to Lord S@-f-@th, and @ﬁrst cousin to the Lady of Sir S-@H-d ?-whether he is not cousin to the Earl of C@-ys-t ?-whether his mother is not sister to a Baronet ? c. c. Will the Governors say that these things are prope
 TUNNEL, LIMEHOUSE, or BLACK WALL. -@RE-DU@CED FARES by the WATERMAN'S BOATS. @@Observe-Two White Rims round the Funnel. F R@E@E@MASONS' and GENERAL LIFE@@ ASSURANCE COMPANY, 11 Waterloo place, Pallmall, London. Business transacted in all the branches a@nd for all objects of Life Assur-ance, Endowments, and Annuities, and to secure contingent Reversions, @c@. Information and Prospectuses furnished by JOSEPH BERRIDGE, Secretary. EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY. N OTICE is hereby given that, pursuant to the@@ Deed of Settlement, an ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the proprietors of ten or more shares will be held at the o@ﬀice of the Company, No. 3 the Crescent, New Bridge street. Black@friars, an FRI@-DAY, the 3rd day of October next, at 12 o'clock for 1 o'clock precisely, for the purpose of receiving the Accounts of the Company, and of electing Four Directors in the room of Walter Anderson Peacock, Esq.,t Esq., and Lieu-tenant-General Sir John Wilson, K.C.B., and One Auditor in the room of Christopher James Campbell, Esq. who go out by rotation, but who are eligible to be re-elected. HENRY P. SMITH, Actuary. Eagle Life O@ﬀice, 3 The Crescent, New Bridge street, @Blackfriars. September 3, 1845. @By a by-law no person can be a candidate for the o@ﬀice of Director or Auditor unless he shall give notice thereof in writing to the Actuary fourteen days at the least previous to the General Meeting.  SOCIETY, 26 CORNHILL. LONDON. Capital, 500.000l.-@Empowered by Act of Parliament. This Institution o@ﬀers important and substantial advantages, with respect both to Life Assurances and Deferred Annuities. The Assured has, on all occasions, the power to borrow, without expense or for-feiture of the Policy, two-thirds of the premium paid see table also the option of selecting bene@ﬁts, and the conversion of his interest to meet other conveniences or necessity. Assurances for terms of years are granted on the lowest possible rates. DIVISION OF PROFITS The success and increasing prosperity of the Society has enabled the Directors, at the last annual investigation, to declare a third Bonus, varying from 3@0 to 75 per cent. on the premiums paid on each Policy e@ﬀected on the Pro@ﬁt scale. EXAMPLES. PUNCH'S ACTS OF PARLIAMENT.@@@@@ This day is published, in small 8vo, uniform with the Comic Blackstone, price 6d. THE SMALL DEBTS ACT With Annotations and Examinations, Critical and Analytical. By GILBERT ABBOT a BECKETT. London published at the PUNCH OFFICE, 92 Fleet street. @@T@@he Sixth Volume of the New and Illustrated Edition of Mr JAMES'S WORKS will be published on October 1st, containing HENRY OF GUISE OR, THE STATES OF BLOIS.@@@ @@@The Volumes of this Series are published Quarterly, price 8s. each, handsomely printed in large 8vo, with an Illustration on Steel, and bound  SMITH, ELDER, and CO. 65 Cornhill.l division of pro@ﬁts is annual, an@d the next will be made in Decem-ber of the present year. F. FERGUSON CAM@ROUX, Secretary. G LASS.-Richly-cut GLASS CHANDELIERS @@@in great variety of elegant and original designs, from 10l. upwards a very choice stock of richly-cut Glass Single-light LUSTRES, from 17s. per pair, upwards double-light GIRANDOLES, from 6l. 10s. per pair, upwards TABLE GLASS of every description at equally reasonable prices, together with a unique Collection of Ornamental Glass, are now exhibited f@or inspection and sale at F. and C. OSLER'S London @Ware-house, @44 Oxford street, near Berners street recently opened in con-nexion with their Manufactory at Birmingham. Established 1807. T@ EAS at the WHOLESALE PRICE.-Families, hotel-keepers, and larger consumers supplied with tea at the whole-sale p@rice for cash. Black, 2s. 8@d., 3s., 3s. 4d., 3s. 8@d., 4s., 4s. 4d., 4s. 8d., and 5s. Green, 3s 4d., 3s. 8d., 4s., 4s. 4d., 5s., 6s. Co@ﬀee, 9d., 10d., 1s., 1s. 2d., 1s. 4d., 1s. @6d., 1s. 8d. One poun@d and upwards sent to any part of town. -@MANSELL and CO., 2 Bucklersbury, Cheapside. Country orders for six pounds of tea and upwards delivered free of carriage to any part of the kingdom. S UPERIOR FRENCH BEDDING.-HEAL and@@ SON'S MATTRESSES, of @ﬁne long wool and horse hair, are quite equal to the best that are made in Paris and they having been the original introducers of French Mattresses, have paid great attention to their manufacture. Also Spring Mattresses, combining the utmost elas-ticity with the greatest-durability. List of prices of every description of Bedding sent free by post, on application to their establishment, the largest in London, exclusively for the manufacture and sale of Bedding no bedstea@ds or other furniture being kept. -H@EAL and SON, Feather-dressers and Bedding Manufacturers, 196 opposite the Chapel , Totten-ham court road. D  A. B. SAVORY and SONS, No.@9 Cornhill, London, opposite the Bank of England, invite attention to a splendid variety of Rosewood China, Bronze, and Ormolu CLOCKS they go for eight days, and strike the hours and half hours. Price Four Guineas, Seven Guineas, and Ten Guineas each, and upwards. The performance is warranted. A Pam-phlet, with detailed lists of prices, and illustrated with sketches, may be had on application, gratis, or sent to all parts of Great Britain and Ire-land, postage free, in answer to a paid letter.  B. SAVORY and SONS, Manufacturing Silversmiths, 14 Cornhill, London, opposite the Bank of England, submit for choice in their plate rooms many patterns of SILVER-PLATED DISH COVERS, of S@hef-ﬁeld manufacture, from 15 to 20 guineas the set, viz.  Pattern.  HE RUGBY, DERBY, and MANCHESTER RAILWAY, THROUGH LEEK@ Provisionally Registered pursuant to 7 and 8 Vict. c. 110. Capital, £1,500,0@00, in 60,000 Share@ of £25 each. Deposit, £1 7s. 6@d. per Share. In deference to the representations of a deputation from Leek, it has been decided that the Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway shall pass through Leek, in place of a branch, as originally designed and advertised. The Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway is a direct line from London to Manchester, coming from London to Rugby, along the Lon-don and Birmingham line, and proceeding from Rugby by Hinckley through Market Bosworth and Ashby-de-la Zouch to Derby, thence to Ashbourne, by Leek to Maccles@ﬁeld, and along the Maccles@ﬁeld and Stockport, and Stockport and Manchester Railways, into Manchester. A branch to Buxton is in contemplation. The principle of this railway is to obtain a direct through line between some of the most important districts in the kingdom with the least pos-sible amount of new railway, and consequently the smallest expenditure of capital. It will also establish the shortest direct communication between Derby and London, She@ﬀield and London, and between all the towns on the North Midland Railway and London. The Manchester, Derby, and Rugby Railway will open a direct com-munication between Manchester and Derby, and will considerably shorten the distance between Manchester and Nottingham and Manchester and Liecester. The line from Derby to Rugby will establish the direct communicationon fr@om that town to London, which has been so long considered desirable by the inhabitants. The same will apply to She@ﬀield, when the She@ﬀield and Chester@ﬁeld branch of the North Midland Railway is made. The great advantages of the Rugby, Derby, and Manchester Railway, through Leek, over the other projects into Manchester, among others, are-First. That there are only 75 miles of railway to be made in the place of 189. Secondly. That it is a more direct line from London to Manchester than even the proposed direct lines. Thirdly. That it interferes with no existing railway property or vested interests. Fourthly. That it passes through a district rich in manufactures, agri-culture, and minerals, but which-more especially as regards its agricul-tural produce, and a convenient system of intercommunication for the conveyance of that agricultural produce, to supply the large manufac-turing towns in the vicinity-has been hitherto left totally without rail-way communication. Fifthly. That it passes through the towns in its route, in place of avoiding them. Sixthly. That the whole line of railway from Rugby to Manchester will be completed and in working order within ten months from the pass-ing of the Act of Parliament. Seventhly. Tha@t the maps, plans, estimates, and other documents re-quired by the standing orders of Parliament will be lodged with the parish clerks, the clerks of the peace for the counties, and the parliamentary o@ﬀices, on the 10th day of November next, being twenty days within the time required by the regulations of Parliament. The report of the engineer of the Company is already completed, and will be made public in a few days, upon which a further and full pro-spectus with the names of the Provisional Directory, will be published. In the meantime, communications may be addressed to Thos. George Smith, Esq. 2 @Warnford court, Throgmorton street Messrs J. B. and D. Neilson, Liverpool John Fox, Esq. solicitor Thomas Jones, Esq. the Company's agent, Ashbourne E Kem Jervis, Esq. solicitor, Hinckley G. Greaves. Esq. and John Moss, Esq. solicitor, Derby Messrs Crossley and Sudlow, Manchester and to the Company's solicitor, Thos. Gibson Brewer, Esq. 13 Gray's-inn square. WILLIAM R. SCOTT, Secretary.  above have silver handles and mountings, and silver shields for engraving the crest or coat of arms. A price current, illustrated by draw-ings, and containing every information relative to the purchase of silver or She@ﬀield plate, may be had on application, or will be sent into the country, free of postage, in answer to a paid letter. B ERDOE'S WATERPROOF OVER-COATS, SHOOTING JACKETS, c. in Llamas and other new and greatly approved materials, manufactured expressly for W. B.-These really waterproof garments having been in extensive use seven years, and become established in the estimation of the respectable classes, are, it is presumed, now too well known to need description or recommendation. Daily experience increasingly proves that, where once adopted, they are regarded as sine-qua-nons. A large stock of @ﬁrst-rate GARMEN@TS, adapted to all purposes, and guaranteed to exclude any rain whatever, kept to select fro@m of which an inspection is con@ﬁdently invited.-Made only by W. BER@DOE, TAILOR, WATERPROOFER, c. 69 CORN-HILL north side . B AD DIGESTION-WONDERFUL CURE by @@HOLLOWAY'S PILLS and OINTMENT.-T. Gardiner, Esq. of 9 Brown street, Grosvenor square, declares that he had been under four of the most eminent physicians, besides @ﬁve of the greatest surgeons in London. He su@ﬀered from a distended stomach, bad digestion, settled pains in the chest, was very nervous and greatly debilitated, and scarcely able to walk a hundred yards. Not deriving the least relief from the Faculty, he set about rubbing large quantities of Hollyway's Ointment into his chest, and took Hollyway's Pills night and morning, which e@ﬀec-tually restored him to perfect health and vigour in t@he short space of three weeks.-Sold at Professor Holloway's Establishment, 244 Strand, and by all respectable Medicine Venders.  COLD WATER CURE.-The HYDRO-PATHIC ESTABLISHMENT, at Sudbrook  Surrey, is now in full operation@, under the personal superin-tendence of the eminent Joseph Weiss, M. D., from Friewaldeau, and late of Stanstead Bury, formerly the coadjutor of Vincent Preissnitz, at Graefenberg. The beautiful domain of Sudbrook, upwards of 100 acres, forms the western boundary of the Royal park of Richmond, to which the patients enjoy the privilege of immediate access by a private entrance. The plunge and other baths, with the pleasure grounds, have undergone recent and great improvement@. There is a spacious sa@le-a-manger, and an excellent billiard and drawing rooms. The terms of t@he establishment vary from three guineas per week and upwards ac-cording to the apartments , which includes medical attendance, board, lodging, and servants. Dr Weiss may be consulted every day at Sud-brook park,  at 28 Sackville street, Piccadilly, for the convenience of parties @wishing to consult himhim  SWINDON, MARLB@ROUGH, DEVIZES, and SALISBURY RAILWAY, with Bra@ches to Poole and South-ampton. Capital, £1,280,000, in 6@4,000 Shares of £20 each. Deposit, £2 2s. @6d. per Share. Provisionally Registered according to 7th and 8th Vict., c. 110. PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE. The Right Hon. Lord Viscount Dillon, Ditchley Park, Oxon, and Loughlyn House, Loughlyn, Ireland. The Hon. Captain William Gore, Director of the Great Western of Bengal Rail@way. William Bulkeley Hughes, Esq. M.P. Chairman of the Welsh Midland Railway Richard Price, Esq. M.P. Director of the Welsh Midland Railway. David R. Ross, Esq. M.P. Chairman of the Belfast, and Director of the London and Manchester Railway. Sir John E. De Beauvoir, Bart, Chairman of the London and Birming-ham Extension. Sir William Bacon Johnston, Bart, Hilton, Aberdeenshire. Sir George William Prescott, Bart, Theobal@s, Herts, Director of the Chester and Manchester Direct Railway. Sir William Hyde Pearson, Bart, Hanover square. Sir John Key, Bart, Alderman of London, Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Sir William Wynn, Maesynewadd, Chairman of the North Wales Rail-way. Sir John Hare, Bart, Langham place, Director of the London and Bir-mingham Extension. Brigadier-General Sir Henry Pynn, Bart, Director of the Direct Western Railway. Admiral J. Ayscough, Prospect-place House, Southampton. Edmund Francis Dayrell, Esq. Lillingstone, Davrell, Bucks, High Sheri@ﬀ of the County, and Director of the Bucks and Oxford and Wolverton Junction Railway. Thomas Sydney. Esq. Alderman and Sheri@ﬀ of London, Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Thomas Farncomb, Esq. Alderman of London, Director of the London and Westminster Bank, and Namur and Liege Railway. Thomas Kelly, Esq. Alderman of London. John Kinnersley Hooper, Esq. Alderman of London, and Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. The Mayor of Buckingham. The Mayor Elect of Woodstock. Donald Maclean, Esq. Deputy Chairman of the Trent Valley Continua-tion. Major Oliver Lindam, K.H. Chairman of the Gloucester, Aberystwith, and Central Wales Railway. Richard Hartley Kennedy, Esq. Chairman of the Conventry and Leicester and Warwick and Cheltenham Railway@. Archibald Spens, Esq. Manor House, Invereske, Director of the Warwick and Cheltenham Junction Railway, and of the Great Western of Bengal. James Brancher, Esq. Chairman of the Liverpool and Bury, and Man-chester and Bolton Railways. Major Morse Cooper, Director of the Great Western of Bengal Railway. Captain James Patrick M 'Doughall, late Bengal Royal General Sta@ﬀ, Fir Grove, North Brixton, Director of the Chepstow and Forest of Dean, c. Railway. Stephen Lewis, Esq. Directorof the South Wales Railway. W. A. Wilkinson, Esq. Director of the Waveney Valley and Great Yar-mouth Railway.  Director of the  Magistrate of the county of Middlesex, Deputy Chairman of the London and Birmingham Extension, and Director of the Leicester and Bedford Railway. John Stewart, Esq. Portman square, Director of the East Indian Rail-way. Colonel Robert Douglas, Royal Artillery, Director of the London and Birmingham Extension. Major Grubbe, Eastwell House, Potterne, Wilts, Magistrate of th county. Edmund Phi@lips, Esq. Avon House, Melksham, Wilts. Captain Edward Dewes, Buckingham, Director of the Bucks and Oxford and Wolverton Junction Railway. Charles Thomas Ward, Esq. Luton Hoo, Beds, and Clopton House, Stratford-on-Avon. Joseph Brook, Esq. Greenhead, Hudders@ﬁeld, Director of the Leeds, Dewsbury, an@d Manchester, and Hudders@ﬁeld and She@ﬀield Junction Railways. George Henry Brook, Esq. Edgulin Lodge, Hudders@ﬁeld, Provisional Director of the Hudder@@ﬁeld. Halifax, and Bradford Union Railway. Vero Clarke Kemball, Esq. Chester place, Hyde Park gardens. John Helbert Helbert, Esq. Gloucester place, Portman square. James Beech, Esq. 15 Grosvernor place, a@@nd Brandon Lodge, near Coven-try, Director of the South Midland. Wm. Watson Prole, Esq. Thurloe square, Brompton, Director of the Jersey Railway. Edward Deakins, Esq. Bicester, Oxon. Frederick James Hall, Esq. Torrington square, and Alfreton, Derby, Director of the Trent Valley continuation. Major Waller, K.H. Director of the London and Manchester Direct Railway. Captain Seth N. Fisher, Director of the Warwick and Worcester Rail-way. Joseph Crockett, Esq. Alderman of Devizes, and Director of the North Wilts Banking Company. Colonel Fitch, York Terrace, Regent's park. Joseph Underwood, Esq. The Hall, Blackheath, director of the Metro-politan Life Insurance Company, and Director of the London and Bir-mingham Extension Company. W.@A. Hill, Esq. Director of the Gloucester and Aberys@with and Central Wales Railway. Robert Marriott Freeman, Esq. Stoney Stratford Bucks, Director of the Bucks Railway. William Sloane, Esq. @Wimpole street, Cavendish square, Chairman of the Church of England Life Insurance Company. Richard Dutton, Esq. Director of the Lincoln, York, and Leeds Railway, and Director of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. C.@W. Tyndale, Esq. Director of the South Eastern Railway. Frederick Jones, Esq. Lincoln's inn, Director of the Warwick and Wor-cester Railway. Col. Olivier, the Manor House, Potterne, Wilts, Magistrate of the County, and Director of the Wiits, Somerset, and Weymouth Railway. William Turner, Esq. Shipton-on-Churwell, Oxon. T. C. Norbury, Esq. Director of the Leicester and Bedford Railway. James Reeves, Esq. Director of the London and Manchester Direct Rail-way. Henry Lewis Smale, Esq. Willoughby House, Tottenham, Director of the London and Dover Railway. Thomas Gooch, Esq. Director of the Fidelity Guarantee Society. Henry Gerard Ohrly, Esq. Director of the Trent Valley Continuation. Railway, and of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. John Anderson, Esq. E.I.C.S. Director of the Church of England Life Insurance. The Rev. Henry John Passand, Rector of Shepton-on-Cherwell. W. P. Courteny, Esq. Temple, Director of the Legal and Commercial Life Insurance Company. John James, Esq. Secondary of the city of London, and Director of the Legal and Commercial Insurance Company. William S. Potter, Esq. Sussex garden@, Hyde park, Director of the Oxford, Witney, and Cheltenham Railway. William Hallett, Esq. Kemp Town, Brighton. William Singleton, Esq. Director of the Liverpool and Leeds Railway. Robert Richards, Inner Temple, London. George Robert Colman, Esq. Director of the South Midland and North-ampton and Banbury Railways. John Brocke Walbancke, Esq. Director of the South Midland Railway. Henry Wright, Esq. Brunswick square, Director of the Warwick and Worcester Railway. John Fagan, Esq. Gloucester road, Old Brompton. William Bardgett, Esq. Winchester House, Broad street, Director of the Italian and Austrian Railway. Erasmus Forster, Esq. Director of the Britannia Life Insurance Com-pany, and Derby and Sta@ﬀord Railway. William Paxton, Esq. Langford, near Bicester. With power to add to their number. BANKERS. London-The Commercial Bank, Lothbury. Bicesier-Messrs Tubb and Co. Woodstock-Messrs Gillett and Tawney. Witney-The London and County Bank. Devizes-Messrs Hughes and Co. and The North Wilts County Bank.  Sir John Macneill, LL.D. and F.R.S. James Thompson, Esq. F.R.S.E. and M.R.I.A.  Mull@ingay Higgins, Esq.  B. James, Esq. 5 Basinghall street, London.  Devizes-J. W. Wall, Esq. Bicester-W. C@. Turner, Esq, Witney-Francis Hunt. Esq. Woodstock-Benjamin Holloway, Esq. Salisbury-Messrs Foote and Radcli@ﬀe, O@ﬀices of the Company, 29 Gresham  Continuation, and South Midlands Railways. William James Bailey, Esq. Shenley House, Bucks, Director of then Brown, Esq. Director of the Manchester and Birmingham Con-tinuation. Peter Morrison, Esq. Managing Director of the Britannia Life Insurance Company. Richard Heaviside, Esq. Director of the Great Luxembourg Railway. Nathl. Cumberlidge, Esq. Joseph Gill, Esq. Chapel Town, Leeds, Director of the Lincoln, York, and Leeds Railway. James Clay, Esq. 25 Montagu square, Director of the Furness and White-haven Railway. Joseph Thompson, Esq. Director of the London and Brighton Railway. William Fechney Black, Esq. Wilton place, Belgrave square, Director of the Italian and Austrian Railway. William Cole, Esq. Bicester, Oxon, Director of the Wilts and Berks Canal. William Shaw, Esq. Director of the Thames Embankment, and Manag-ing Director of the Farmers' Life Insurance  most excellent Medicine has been faithfully prepared for nearly a century, from the purest Drugs and Spirits that can be procured, at the original warehouse, No. 10 Bow churchyard, London and has been attended with the fullest success in the cure of the Gravel, Stone, Spasms, Pains in the Breast, the most excruciating Fits of the Cholic, and in all complaints of the Stomach and Bowels. In bottles at 2s. and 2s. 9d. each. See that the words Dicey and Co. are engravel on the Government Stamp, all others being counterfeit and worthless preparations. H  or Relieved, by Mechanical Means. -@Mr J. WALTERS begs to inform his Medical Friends and the Public that he has made arrange-ments for being at home daily from Ten till Two o'clock, during which hours he may be consulted in all cases requiring mechanical contrivance with surgical knowledge. Having directed much attention to the subject of Hernia or Rupture , he is enabled, in almost all cases, to ensure to the patient an e@ﬀicient yet comfortable support. J. W. takes this oppor-tunity to thank the medical and surgical profession for their kind support and advice, more especially the hospital surgeons of the City, who have honoured him with their con@ﬁdence.-16 Moorgate street, City. TO SUFFERERS. I NSTANT RELIEF from PAIN@!-LEFAY'S@@ GRANDE POMMADE cures, in most cases, by one application, Tic Douloureux. Gout, and all painful a@ﬀections of the Nerves. Patients who had lost the use of their limbs from weakness, brought on by para-lysis and rheumatism, have by a few rubbings@,been restored to strength and comfort, after all the usual remedies had been tried and found use-less@. Its e@ﬀects have also been experienced in its rapid cure of rheumatic pains of the head and face, paralytic a@ﬀections, weakness of the ligaments and j@oints, glandular swellings, sore throat, chronic rheumatism, palpita-tion of the heart, and di@ﬀicult respiration. It requires no restint from business or pleasure, nor does it cause any eruption, and m@@@@@aied to the most delicate skin without fear of injury. Sold, by the appointment of Jean Lefay, the Inventor, by his sole agent, J. @W. STIRLING, che-@mist, 86 High street, Whitechapel, in Metallic Cases, at 4s. 6d. and 2s. 9d. each who will answer any inquiries if by letter post paid respecting it, and also show letters received from numerous patients who have bene@ﬁted by its application. 
